DRN-3387559
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (trading as Tesco Bank) 
hasnt helped her recover the money paid for goods and services on her credit card.
What happened
In mid-January 2020 Mrs B contacted a supplier to provide parts and complete 
plumbing work in her home. The work was arranged over text messages and the 
following was agreed:
Replace your shower pump (it will need to be moved) supply & fit 2 new toilet 
syphons supply & fit new hand basin taps supply & fit new radiator trv carry out a 
chemical flush on your heating system and complete a boiler service
The cost for this work and the items supplied were not itemised, instead the supplier 
charged a single figure for completion of all the work. The amount detailed in the text 
message was £600.
Mrs B has provided a copy of another text message discussion with the supplier which 
detailed that Mrs B needed the shower pump to supply pressure between her showers. 
In addition, shes said they agreed the hand basin taps would be the same as the taps 
she already owned.
When the supplier came to Mrs Bs home to complete the work, Mrs B has said the 
supplier brought an incorrect part. So, he asked Mrs B to pay £500 rather than the 
agreed £600 and he would return with the correct parts and complete the work. Mrs B 
has said he didnt return to the complete this work. Mrs B has also complained that in 
the process of removing her daughters radiator he caused a stain on her new carpet 
and whilst he tried to clean it, there are still marks on the flooring. Mrs B has provided a 
photograph of this stain.
Mrs B paid £500 on her Tesco Bank credit card on 16 January 2020 for the work which 
was completed. Shes said she wasnt given a receipt or an itemised invoice at any 
stage. In the days and weeks following the work, Mrs B has experienced a number of 
problems. I have detailed them below together with the actions Mrs B took.
1. Replace the shower pump
Mrs B has said this initially worked, however it cut out on the second day of using it and 
this fault has continued. Shes also said that the pump feels hot to touch. Mrs B said she 
contacted the supplier several times between 18 January 2020 and 27 January 2020 but 
didnt receive a response.
Mrs B has since contacted the manufacturer and described the pump which was 
installed. She has provided the response which says the pump installed was for single 
shower outlets and that a different pump type is used for numerous outlets.
2. Supply & fit new hand basin taps
Mrs B has said the hot water tap turns the wrong way and that her original taps were a 
better quality. Mrs B has provided a screenshot from a website showing her original taps 
and another screenshot to show what the supplier replaced them with. Mrs B has said 
shes since had to replace the taps fitted by the supplier and therefore cannot provide 
photographs to demonstrate the poor quality taps supplied. In addition, Mrs B is also 
unable to provide documentation relating to the subsequent replacement taps as shes 
said this was agreed verbally.
3. Supply & fit new radiator TRV
Mrs B has said this wasnt supplied or fitted. Mrs B has provided a photograph to show 
her radiator without a TRV.
4. Chemical flush on the heating system
Following the work Mrs B has said there was an imbalance in the radiators, so the 
suppliers father returned to correct this. The remedial work restored heat to radiators, but 
subsequently only the bottoms of the radiators heated, and they only became warm rather 
than hot.
The following day Mrs B said there was a loud knocking from the boiler and airing 
cupboard pipes after any water use. She said this now happens intermittently, but still 
feels it is regular. In addition, shes said the small header tank in the loft is overflowing out 
of the overflow pipe down the side of the house which is causing damp to the brickwork. 
Mrs B has provided photographs of the damp damage. Mrs B has said shes since had a 
full power flush completed on her heating system.
5. Boiler service
On 30 January 2020 Mrs B has said they woke up to find they had no central heating or 
hot water. She called their emergency insurance engineer who visited her home. Mrs B 
said when they removed the cover to her boiler, debris fell out and there was a build up of 
dirt inside the boiler. It was identified that Mrs B needed a new fan which was 
subsequently fitted and she paid £305 for the fan replacement.
Mrs B therefore believes the supplier didnt service the boiler as initially agreed and 
believes that if it had been serviced, its reasonable that the supplier would have identified 
the need to replace the fan. Mrs B also obtained an email from the emergency engineer 
confirming that he attended the property to install the fan. The emergency engineer also 
didnt agree that the boiler was recently serviced.
Mrs B has said she tried several times to contact the supplier to resolve these issues, but 
the supplier didnt respond to these messages and hasnt returned to fit the taps, radiator 
TRV or rectify the issues shes described. As Mrs B paid the supplier using her Tesco 
Bank credit card, she asked Tesco Bank to either raise a chargeback or, if unsuccessful, 
refund the money paid under Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 as 
she feels the supplier breached the contract.
Tesco Bank considered the chargeback but didnt raise it. It felt that without an individual 
cost attributed to each piece of work/item its only option would be to dispute the full 
amount. This could then be disputed by the merchant and it would have no evidence to 
dispute any amounts put forward by the merchant. As part of the chargeback rules, Mrs B would also have needed to return the items installed which Tesco Bank considered would 
be difficult for her to do. And finally, it felt she hadnt provided sufficient evidence to 
support her claims that the goods and services provided werent of satisfactory quality. 
Tesco Bank did provide £150 compensation to Mrs B for the customer service problems 
she experienced whilst it was considering her chargeback request. As this has been 
resolved, this decision wont consider the earlier customer service concerns.
With regards to the s75 claim, Tesco Bank declined Mrs Bs claim. It argued that without 
clear details of what was agreed, and the cost associated with each item and work carried 
out, it couldnt establish if she met the criteria needed for a s75 claim. Specifically, it 
couldnt establish if she was the party that had contracted with the supplier (and so had 
the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place) and it couldnt confirm if each 
of the items and work carried out were over £100 which is needed to make a s75 claim.
Mrs B was unhappy with Tesco Banks response and so asked our service to consider 
her complaint. One of our investigators considered the complaint. She agreed with 
Tesco Bank with regards to the chargeback. She thought that based on the information 
Tesco Bank had at the time (including not having a breakdown of the costs) the 
chargeback was unlikely to be successful.
Our investigator didnt agree with how Tesco Bank had considered the s75 claim. She felt 
there was sufficient information about the contract and that there was a debtor-creditor- 
supplier agreement in place. She also felt that Mrs Bs claim was over the £100 threshold 
as what was agreed was a various work and items supplied (listed above) for a set cost 
and this cost was over the £100 threshold.
She went on to consider the claim and whilst she felt some of the issues hadnt been 
sufficiently evidenced, she did think Mrs B had done enough to show a breach of 
contract with regards to the pump, chemical flush on the heating system and the boiler 
service. In order to determine fair redress the investigator tried to establish what 
percentage of the overall cost was attributed to this work/items supplied.
Tesco Bank disagreed with the investigators opinion. It again argued it needed proof of 
the agreement in dispute, including a description of the work to be completed, evidence 
of who the supplier contracted with and the cost of each piece of work. Without this 
information it didnt agree that a s75 claim could be considered.
As part of her complaint, and in response to our investigators assessment, Mrs B has 
also requested additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has 
experienced. Shes explained that this matter has been outstanding for a considerable 
amount of time and that her family have only had one shower in use during this period.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. I 
issued a provisional decision on this complaint an extract of this is below and forms part of 
this decision: 
Chargeback
Mrs B asked Tesco Bank to raise a chargeback on her behalf to recover the amount 
paid to the supplier. A chargeback is a dispute resolution scheme administrated by 
the card network. The scheme sets out various rules which need to be complied with 
and whilst Tesco has discretion about whether or not to raise a chargeback, Id 
consider it to be good industry practice for Tesco Bank to do so where there is a 
reasonable prospect of success. Prior to raising a chargeback Mrs B also needed to demonstrate that shed first exhausted attempts to try and resolve the issues with 
the supplier direct.
Mrs B has provided copies of text messages and call records made to the supplier 
which were unsuccessful or didnt receive a reply, so I think she did take steps to try 
and resolve the issues initially. In this case I can see that Tesco Bank didnt raise a 
chargeback as it didnt think there was a reasonable prospect for success. I agree this 
dispute wasnt well suited to a chargeback, as Mrs B would need to return the items 
supplied which would be difficult since the shower pump and taps had already been 
installed. I also dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success. The scheme 
rules say, although optional, documentation to evidence the chargeback is also 
beneficial. And, whilst some of the loss has been evidenced, there isnt evidence to 
demonstrate all the loss Mrs B has said shes incurred. So for these reasons, I think 
Tesco Bank was right not to raise a chargeback in this case.
Does Mrs B have a valid s75 claim?
Section 75 CCA makes the provider of credit (Tesco Bank in this case) equally liable 
where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of 
the goods or services. For a s75 claim there are a number of different criteria which 
need to be met. As detailed above, Tesco Bank doesnt agree Mrs B met this criteria 
as it cant establish if theres a sufficient debtor-credit-supplier agreement in place or 
if each piece of work or goods supplied are over the £100 threshold.
In order to make a s75 claim Tesco Bank is correct these are criteria that apply, but 
I think they are met in this case. I accept that a written invoice, clearly made out to 
the consumer, would help clarify these issues. However, looking at the information 
Mrs B has provided, I think shes done enough to evidence this.
-Contracting parties and work agreed
Mrs B has provided a copy of a text message she received from the supplier 
which is addressed to her. It details the work to be carried out and goods to be 
provided (detailed above) and the cost of £600. From this I think its clear Mrs B 
has contracted with the supplier for the work/items described. Mrs B has said that 
when the supplier arrived at her home he didnt bring the correct toilet syphons 
and so £100 was deducted from the amount she needed to pay. Mrs B has said 
she paid on her credit card and I can see that just before she started chasing the 
supplier about the subsequent problems she was experiencing, there is a £500 
payment. The name that appears on her bank statement for this payment 
includes the name detailed on the Homeowner Gas Safety Record provided to 
her by the supplier. And so its clear this was the payment made to the supplier.1
So I think there is sufficient evidence to show what was agreed and that it was 
Mrs B who contracted with and paid the supplier.
-Financial limits
Turning to the cost of the work agreed and goods supplied, whilst I appreciate why 
1 I can see that in addition to detailing the supplier another party is also listed on the transaction on 
Mrs Bs statement, but Tesco hasnt suggested this means Mrs B cant make a s75 claim. It appears 
that the payment was made to the supplier through a payment processor who I cant see offered Mrs B 
any other services, so I dont think this changes Mrs Bs ability to make a claim.Tesco Bank reached the conclusion it did, I dont agree. It seems to me that what 
was agreed was for the work to be completed and the items supplied for a set single 
price of £600. Whilst another supplier may have broken this down and attributed a 
cost for each item/work to be completed, this isnt what happened in this case. The 
price was varied slightly with agreement between both parties when the supplier 
didnt have the correct toilet syphons. The total cost for the remaining items and 
work to be completed was £500. This is above the £100 threshold and so is over the 
amount needed to make a s75 claim. I should also explain that I can see a text 
message for what I think was an earlier discussion about the cost to supply and fit 
the shower pump. However, I cant see this for any of the other work and in any 
event, this amount was over £100. And I think despite earlier discussions, what was 
ultimately agreed (and paid) was a single cost of £500 for all the work excluding the 
toilet syphons. So I think this was within the financial limits needed to make a s75 
claim.
So to summarise, I think Mrs B was the debtor and contracted with the supplier to 
supply items and complete the work agreed. I think the amount of the transaction 
was above the financial limits and there were sufficient arrangements in place 
between the parties required for a s75 claim. Ive not seen anything else to suggest 
that Mrs Bs claim didnt meet the criteria needed for a s75 claim and so I think Tesco 
Bank shouldve gone on to consider it. As Tesco Bank didnt, Ive gone on to 
consider if its likely this claim wouldve been successful.
Breach of contract  s75 claim
Based on everything Mrs B has said, I think shes arguing that the shower pump 
supplied wasnt fit for purpose, the hand basin taps werent of satisfactory quality and 
the work agreed either wasnt carried out or wasnt carried out with reasonable care 
and skill. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies terms to this effect into a contract for 
goods or services (or digital content). So if Mrs B could demonstrate these arguments, 
shed be able to show that the supplier breached the contract. Ill now go on to 
consider each of the items/ work.
-Replace the shower pump
Mrs B has provided a copy of a text message she sent to the supplier shortly after 
the work took place. This says that the shower keeps cutting out every 30 seconds or 
so and asked when he will be coming back to fix it. In addition, Mrs B has also 
provided an email from the manufacturer of the shower pump. This email says that 
based on the details Mrs B provided of the shower pump, the wrong shower pump 
was installed. It states that the pump installed was for single showers and if Mrs B 
wanted numerous outlets she needed a different pump. Mrs B has provided a copy of 
a text message detailing that she needed the pump to supply pressure between her 
showers, so I think it was agreed that a pump which could accommodate this would 
be needed. And taking everything into consideration, I dont think the pump supplied 
was fit for its intended purpose in light of this. So I think the contract was breached 
with regards to the supply and installation of the pump.
-Supply & fit new hand basin taps
Mrs B has said the hot water tap turned the wrong way and that her original taps 
were a better quality. Mrs B has provided a screen shot from a website to show her 
previous taps and another screen shot to show what was installed by the supplier. 
However, shes since replaced the taps provided by the supplier and cant provide evidence that this work was completed as she has no documentation from the 
subsequent plumber.
Ive taken into consideration what Mrs B has said and what she is able to provide. 
However, unfortunately I dont have sufficient evidence to show the installation 
problems shes described or enough to demonstrate that the taps provided were of a 
poorer quality. So I cant conclude theres been a breach of contract regarding this.
-Supply & fit new radiator TRV
Mrs B has said this wasnt supplied and fitted when the supplier visited her home. Ive 
reviewed her email detailing her claim to Tesco Bank and whilst this has been 
referenced as being included in the original work, Mrs B didnt provide any details 
about any problems relating to this within the email. Mrs B has said this was raised 
when she initially spoke to Tesco Bank. Ive listened to a call recording of this call and 
Ive noted that it was raised. Mrs B said that the radiator TRV was not installed when 
speaking to the representative at Tesco Bank. So whilst I accept it wasnt detailed in 
her subsequent email, it was raised when she initially spoke to Tesco Bank and so 
shouldve been considered as part of her claim.
I have therefore considered whether the supplier breached the contract with respect 
to this. Mrs B has provided a photograph to show her radiator doesnt have a TRV on 
it which suggests to me it wasnt initially supplied. So I think Mrs B has done enough 
to evidence her claim in respect of the radiator TRV.
-Chemical flush on the heating system
Mrs B has provided a message to show that in the evening after the work was initially 
completed she experienced problems with the radiators. Some of her radiators were 
cold or warm and others were only hot at the top. She also said that she tried to run a 
bath and the cold tap was hardly working. I understand the suppliers father came out 
to fix this, but Mrs B has said that following this work there were banging and whirring 
noises coming from the airing cupboard and boiler. Shes also said the small header 
tank in the loft was overflowing out of the overflow pipe down the side of the house 
which is causing damp to the brickwork and shes provided photographs of this.
Ive thought carefully about the concerns Mrs B has raised and Ive noted shes 
provided a text messages to show she contacted the supplier about this. However, 
shes also said the suppliers father subsequently visited to try and fix the issues and 
Ive not seen enough to determine the impact this had on the prior issues or if any 
action (by the supplier or his father) caused the further problems. For example, Mrs B 
hasnt provided an independent report which could have provided commentary on 
this. I understand Mrs B was unhappy that Tesco Bank requested an independent 
report after she initially spoke to it and shes said this wasnt requested until around 
three weeks later. Mrs B has said that by this time she had already had engineers in 
her home. So in light of this, she didnt think she could get an independent report. 
Mrs B has therefore argued that her failure to provide supporting evidence of some of 
the issues shes experienced, was due to Tesco Banks initial delay.
Whilst I accept it wouldve been helpful for Tesco Bank to have requested this earlier, 
I also think it was reasonable for Mrs B to have expected she would have needed to 
provide some further evidence to support her claim. Particularly as Mrs B has raised 
a number of issues including further damage/ problems she believes the work 
undertaken has additionally caused.In addition, I note from listening to her initial conversation with Tesco Bank that the 
representative told Mrs B an independent report might subsequently be needed. 
Mrs B was also told that if she got different suppliers in to rectify any of the issues, 
she should gather evidence from them on the work they completed (which she did do 
in relation to the boiler). I also dont agree that an independent report would have 
been of no value, even after work had been completed, provided Mrs B had obtained 
clear details from the various engineers about what had been done and why.
So taking all this into consideration, I dont think Tesco Bank is responsible for Mrs B 
failing to provide sufficient evidence of some of the problems shes attempting to 
claim for. And with regards to the chemical flush on the heating system and the 
damage Mrs B has said this has caused, I dont have enough evidence to conclude 
theres been a breach of contract in relation to this. I have noted Mrs B has said she 
subsequently needed a full power flush completed on her heating system. However, 
my understanding is this is much more powerful than a chemical flush and so I dont 
think it provides any clear conclusions about whether or not the chemical flush was 
completed properly.
-Damage to Mrs Bs daughters carpet
Mrs B has provided photographs of the spots to the carpet which shes said were 
caused by the suppliers work. Ive noted that the spots are close to the radiator and 
this is something Mrs B has consistently raised as being caused by the supplier. So 
taking everything into consideration, I think Mrs B has done enough to evidence this 
and Ill be taking this into consideration when awarding compensation below.
-Boiler service
Around two weeks after the initial work Mrs Bs hot water and central heating 
stopped working. An engineer visited her home and Mrs B has said that when 
they removed the cover to her boiler, debris fell out and there was a build-up of 
dirt inside the boiler. In addition, Mrs B needed a new fan for her boiler.
Mrs B has provided an email from the engineer which said that in his professional 
opinion it did not appear the boiler had been serviced for some considerable time. I 
therefore think its clear from this that Mrs B has evidenced that either the supplier 
didnt complete the work agreed or that if he did, he didnt do so with reasonable care 
and skill. So in either event, I think there has also been a breach of contract in respect 
to this. I have noted that the boiler needed a new fan and Mrs B paid an additional 
cost for this. However, supplying and fitting the fan wouldnt have been included as 
part of a standard boiler service. So I dont think Mrs B should be additionally 
compensated for the cost of this.
So to summarise, I think there has been a breach of contract with respect to the 
shower pump, boiler service and TRV and I think Tesco Bank should refund what 
Mrs B has paid in relation to this.
I asked Mrs B and Tesco Bank to provide anything further they wished for me to consider in 
response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither Mrs B or Tesco Bank have provided anything else for me to consider in response to 
my provisional decision and so I see no reason to depart from the provisional findings I 
made. 
For the reasons explained, I think there has been a breach of contract regarding Mrs Bs 
shower pump, boiler service and TRV. I therefore think it was unfair of Tesco Bank to 
decline Mrs Bs claim in respect of these issues and that Tesco Bank should put things 
right in the way Ive described below. 
Putting things right
As explained above and in my provisional decision, the work to be completed and items 
supplied were not itemised. So it becomes difficult to decide what fair compensation 
should be.
Mrs B has provided a more recent quote for this work, and although these figures 
represent a substantial variation from what Mrs B paid, they do demonstrate that shower 
was likely to have made up a larger proportion of the cost. I therefore propose to attribute 
£300 for the shower pump and £50 for each of the remaining items. I accept that this isnt 
a perfect solution, however in the absence of anything to show how the supplier mightve 
attributed values to each item/work, I think this represents the fairest way to apportion the 
cost.
As I think Mrs B has demonstrated a breach of contract in respect of the shower pump, 
boiler service and TRV, this comes to £400. I invited both Tesco Bank and Mrs B to 
provide any further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision should 
either party wish to dispute these values. As Neither party as done so, I think this 
represents a fair way of calculating values for the work completed/items supplied which I 
think should have been upheld. 
Mrs B has also asked for additional compensation for the length of time its taken to 
resolve this matter (which she feels wouldve been avoided if Tesco Bank hadnt declined 
her claim.) Shes told us about the impact this has had on her physical and mental health 
and the additional risk shes been exposed to by not having separate washing facilities to 
her family. I dont underestimate her strength of feeling in this matter or the challenges 
shes experienced during this period. In circumstances where Im considering the liability 
of Tesco Bank for a like claim against a supplier for breach of contact, I have to be 
mindful of what the courts might award against the supplier in similar circumstances. 
Whilst there are limited circumstances where the courts would award compensation for 
non-financial losses, one area where compensation may be awarded is for physical 
inconvenience or discomfort in the home. Its important to highlight that where this is the 
case the award is likely to be modest and there is still a requirement on the claimant to 
mitigate their loss. Therefore, when it became possible to, Mrs B wouldve been expected 
to have taken steps to rectify some of the problems shes experienced.
In addition, as explained above, I have considered what Mrs B has said about the stains 
to her daughters new carpet and the photographs shes provided showing some small 
stains. This occurred as a consequence of the work completed and I appreciate it is likely 
to have been disappointing for Mrs B. As with the shower, I would have expected Mrs B to 
have mitigated her loss as soon as she was able to. However, even taking that into 
consideration, rectifying this is still likely to incur a cost.
So, having thought about these issues, I think an additional compensation payment of 
£200 is also fair to reflect the impact of only having one shower and the potential cost 
involved in rectifying the carpet.As Mrs B paid for this work on her credit card I dont know if shes incurred additional fees 
or interest payments resulting from this payment. So to put things right Tesco Bank 
should:
Rework Mrs Bs credit card account as though £400 had been refunded from the 
date Tesco Bank declined her claim.
Any interest, fees or charges which have been caused by the transaction 
must be refunded, and any negative credit file information removed.
If the step above results in Mrs B ever having had a credit balance on her credit 
card account, then Tesco Bank must pay 8% simple interest per year* on this 
balance, from the date it would have arisen to the date it would have ceased.
Additionally pay Mrs B £200 compensation.
*If Tesco Bank considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from this interest then it must 
tell Mrs B how much tax it has taken off, and give her a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim this tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I require Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc to put things right in the way Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
