DRN-3390330
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2010 
by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that when he claimed on the home emergency cover policy of the URCA in 2021, 
the response to his claim was inadequate. He therefore says that BOS mis-sold him the 
product.
BOS says that it made clear to Mr G what the URCA included and how it was provided, and 
if he was unhappy with the response to his home emergency cover claim he should take it 
up with the insurer that supplied the cover.
In making my decision, I need to be clear that Im only looking at whether the URCA was 
mis-sold, and not whether the home emergency cover response was adequate or not.
Both parties agree that Mr G had fee free accounts for many years before he took out the 
URCA, so in my view he knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not, and he 
chose to do so.
BOS says this was an information only sale, and Ive not seen any evidence such as a 
suitability check to suggest otherwise, so I think its more likely than not that it was.
So, BOS was required to provide Mr G with enough information to make an informed 
decision about whether to take out the URCA or not. And I think it its more likely than not 
that it did.
I say this because, Mr G has shown that he had the detailed information about the various 
benefits of the URCA and BOS has provided evidence that he has made multiple use of the 
benefits.
Ive looked carefully at the arguments that Mr G has put forward. But in my view BOS has 
given him at the time of the sale the information that a third-party was providing the home 
emergency cover, and what to do if he needed to make a claim.
So, I think its more likely than not that BOS didnt do anything wrong when it sold the URCA 
to Mr G.
Finally I would like to be clear that this decision is only about the sale of the URCA, and this 
decision does not mean that Mr G cannot make a complaint to the home emergency cover 
insurer about his claim and if he is dissatisfied with the outcome, he could bring that 
complaint to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint about the mis-sale of his URCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman