DRN-4207744
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs H applied for a credit card. 118 approved the application and gave 
Mrs H a card with an initial credit limit of £1200. No further credit limit increases were 
applied.
Mrs H complained that 118 had lent to her irresponsibly.
118 didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before lending 
to Mrs H. 
Mrs H remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that 118 hadnt carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and said the information showed that Mrs H wasnt in a position to take 
on any more borrowing.
118 didnt reply to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Hs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, 118 needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mrs H could sustainably repay what was being lent to her.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks that 118 completed. 118 obtained information from Mrs H about her 
income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check to see what historic and current 
credit commitments Mrs H had.
When she applied for the account, Mrs H told 118 that she was employed part time with a 
monthly income of £1527. Mrs H didnt declare any dependants and stated that she was 
living with her parents. She declared monthly expenditure of £430.
118 Money carried out a credit check before lending to Mrs H. Ive reviewed this and I can 
see that Mrs H had significant consumer credit commitments with some accounts in arrears 
and some accounts subject to a payment plan.
In view of this information, I think it wouldve been proportionate for 118 to carry out further 
checks to get a more detailed understanding of Mrs Hs financial circumstances.
Ive gone on to consider what further checks might have shown.
Ive looked at Mrs Hs unsecured debt. This was at a significant level and shouldve been the 
focus of further checks. She had unsecured debt of around £10,000 which included credit 
cards, loans, catalogue accounts and a hire purchase agreement. I can see that Mrs H took 
out a credit card with another lender the month before she applied for the 118 credit card. 
She had already utilised all of the credit facility on that first card. I can also see that Mrs H 
applied for a loan with 118 in June 2021. So she would have had loan repayments to make 
going forwards as well as the payments on the 118 credit card account.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the lending decision was fair. The information 
from the credit checks shows that Mrs H was already struggling to repay her debts ad that 
she was reliant on credit. 
For these reasons Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
118 must:
Rework the account so that interest and charges are removed
If an outstanding balance remains, 118 must arrange an affordable payment plan with Mrs H
If there isnt an outstanding balance, any extra should be treated as an overpayment and 
should be returned to Mrs H together with 8% simple interest per annum calculated from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement*
Once there is no outstanding balance 118 should remove any adverse information relating to 
the account from Mrs Hs credit file
*HMRC require 118 to take off tax from the interest. 118 must give Mrs H a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman