DRN-3653539
The complaint
Mr S has complained Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund him for 
transactions he made on his credit card to an online marketplace for holiday rentals.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Ss wife reserved a holiday villa rental through an online marketplace 
Ill call (H). H connects homeowners to holiday goers. Mr S and his wife were due to stay at 
the villa from 28 March 2020 to 4 April 2020. Mr S made two payments to H using his Halifax 
credit card: £406.12 on 20 November 2019 and £879.95 on 27 December 2019. The seven 
nights stay cost £1,173.27 and there was a service fee of £112.80. So the total payment 
made to H was £1,286.07. 
On 13 March 2020, due to Covid-19, the firm that runs the villa where Mr S and his wife were 
due to stay contacted Mr Ss wife. Ill call that firm C. C wanted to offer Mr Ss wife options 
should she be considering cancelling or moving the booking. C offered her two options. 
Firstly, to transfer 100% of the booking cost, subject to availability, to another date outside of 
peak times. Secondly, to transfer 50% of the booking cost, subject to availability, within peak 
times. These were both valid for a year.  
Mr Ss wife wrote back to C to say she was disappointed the trip had been cancelled due to 
Covid-19. She said she would like to re-book the same villa, and that she would confirm the 
date when she could rearrange their flights. C agreed. 
In November 2020 Mr Ss wife wrote to C to say it was extremely unlikely she and Mr S 
would be able to travel to visit the villa due to Covid-19 travel restrictions and asked for a 
refund. She also asked for the refund from H. 
Mr S said H told his wife the only options were the original offers from C. So Mr S contacted 
Halifax to put in a claim. There was some back and forth between Mr S and Halifax. Halifax 
initially said the chargeback had been brought out of time. But Mr S pushed back and asked 
for Halifax to consider the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
Mr S had to chase the response from Halifax. 
Halifax sent a final response in June 2021. It offered Mr S £100 for the way it handled the 
claim, and the delay in sending a response. But it said the chargeback was out of time, and 
that the necessary relationship for a claim to be considered under section 75 didnt exist. 
This was because there wasnt a direct link between Mr S, Halifax and the supplier. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Halifaxs response was 
broadly fair. He agreed the chargeback was brought out of time. And he said the issue Mr S 
had was C didnt refund him  not that H had done something wrong. So he didnt think the 
necessary relationship existed for a valid section 75 claim. He also thought the £100 
compensation for the way things were handled was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed not requested a chargeback, so Halifax were wrong to reject 
his claim on this basis. But he agreed it apologised for this. He also said H didnt make him 
aware the fee was being passed to C. He said H shouldve made it clear this is what it was 
doing. And that he wouldnt have booked through it if hed have known. 
Mr S also thought there was a contract between him and H because it charged a service fee. 
He said it wasnt fair for a credit card firm to avoid its liability and that the retailer cant pass 
on its responsibilities for the sale. He also said the delays may have prejudiced a travel 
insurance claim, and that having an expiry date of the voucher made it worthless. 
I issued a provisional decision that said: 
Im considering whether Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ss 
request for getting his money back. In situations like this, the creditor can consider raising a 
chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
Ive first thought about its decision to not raise a chargeback. The process is subject to rules 
made by the relevant card schemes. For the card scheme that is relevant in this case, the 
rules say that there is a limited window of time in which to make a chargeback. Generally, 
this is 120 days from the date of the transaction or, if a service was meant to be provided by 
a specific date in the future, 120 days from that date. 
Our investigator said Mr S brought his claim out of time. But Im mindful that Mr S and his 
wife effectively accepted a voucher to use that was valid for a year. Mr S contacted Halifax 
within that time. So for this particular card scheme rules, Im not persuaded he brought the 
claim out of time. But the problem is that I cant see there was a valid reason code for a 
successful chargeback. H carried out the service that was paid for. It arranged the booking 
for Mr S. And it hasnt done something wrong in relation to the voucher that Mr Ss wife 
organised with C. So I dont think the chargeback was likely to succeed.  
However, given the transaction was carried out on a credit card, I agree that Halifax ought to 
have considered assessing a claim under section 75 sooner than it did. It looks like the value 
of the transaction falls within the relevant monetary limits for a valid claim to be considered 
under section 75. But does the necessary relationship exist?
From what Ive seen, Mr Ss wife made the booking with H. And she liaised with H and C 
about it. Mr S paid H, and it passed over the rental money to C while keeping a booking fee 
itself. So there are various parties involved. I have had due regard to the relevant criteria for 
a valid section 75 claim. There needs to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) arrangement in 
place. Having so many parties involved can impact the arrangement. 
Mr S has complained C wont refund him off the back of the cancelled booking. But Im 
mindful that Mr S paid H, not C. This can cause problems with the DCS relationship. Its not 
clear Mr S can make a claim to Halifax that C breached a contract. And I cant see theres an 
exception that may apply. 
Moreover, while I dont have all the paperwork Id like, such as a contract, it looks like Mr Ss 
wife is the customer of Hs. Ive not seen anything saying Mr S is a joint customer. So even 
though Mr S paid H, it looks like H was contracting with his wife. That could also cause 
problems with the DCS relationship. But even if it didnt and I was able to consider whether 
or not H breached the contract or made a misrepresentation, Im not persuaded theres 
sufficient evidence of that. Mr S has indicated hes unhappy H didnt tell him the payment 
would be passed to C. But a misrepresentation requires there to be a false statement of fact 
that induced Mr S into doing something. And thats not what happened here. 
Moreover, Ive not been supplied a copy of Hs terms and conditions that were applicable at 
the time Mr S entered into the contract. So, in the absence of those, Ive looked at the current terms and conditions which are likely very similar. Ive looked at the sections relating 
to cancellations. And I cant see anything on there that would indicate H has breached the 
contract. The terms say that rental contracts are concluded between the customer and the 
host. H says it isnt and doesnt become a party to any contractual relationship between the 
customer and the host. It goes on to say the host is responsible for performing all the 
obligations of the contract between the customer and the host. It says the service fee is only 
refundable in the event a host accepts cancellation of the customers reservation and 
refunds the entire rental amount. The terms also say that customers are advised to obtain 
suitable travel insurance to cover their booking including in the event they have to cancel it. 
Therefore, while of course I can understand why Mr S is unhappy, I do have to consider 
Halifaxs liability here. And based on that, Im not persuaded it acted unfairly by ultimately 
declining the claim. 
However, I do agree with our investigator that it could have handled things better. It should 
have considered the complaint under section 75 sooner than it did and made it easier for 
Mr S to get an answer on his claim. I think the £100 its paid in recognition of that broadly 
seems fair in all the circumstances. Ive not seen that the delay has caused any detriment to 
an insurance claim. So Im not going to direct it to do anything else.
Halifax didnt have anything to add. 
Mr S didnt agree with the decision, but he doesnt have anything further to add either. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank both parties for acknowledging receipt of the provisional decision. As neither 
party has submitted anything materially new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in that decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has done enough to put 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman