DRN-3459484
The complaint
Mr R complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has not treated him fairly in a 
dispute over a deposit payment for his daughters wedding.
What happened
Mr R has a Barclays credit card account. His wife, Mrs R, is an additional cardholder. Where 
I refer to actions taken or things said by Mr R, this should be taken to include Mrs R unless 
otherwise stated.
Mr Rs daughter (E) and her fianc (A) entered an agreement with a wedding venue in 
November 2019. Mrs R used her additional card on Mr Rs account to pay a deposit to the 
venue of £3,000 on 21 November 2020. Disagreements arose between the couple and the 
venue in April and May 2020. E and A were concerned about a number of issues with the 
venue which included:
The managing director being temporarily unable to locate their deposit.
Refusing to be flexible over numbers and other matters.
Changing details of the arrangements without telling them, including increasing the 
price per guest and removing items.
Delays in sending a final quote, and poor communication.
The couple cancelled their agreement with the venue. The venue said the deposit was non-
refundable and refused to return it.
Mr R contacted Barclays in an attempt to claim a refund of the deposit. The bank refunded 
the deposit while it investigated but, in the end, it declined Mr Rs claim and re-debited the 
money. Barclays said it had declined the claim because the agreement with the venue was 
not in Mr Rs name, and because the deposit had been non-refundable. Barclays refused to 
change its position after Mr R complained, and he subsequently referred the matter to this 
service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She came to essentially the same 
conclusions as Barclays, but went into more detail. She noted:
Barclays had attempted a chargeback to claw back the deposit from the venue, but 
the venue had successfully defended this on the grounds the deposit was non-
refundable. Based on the paperwork from the venue, this appeared to be correct and 
a chargeback hadnt had a prospect of succeeding.
The contract with the venue was between the venue, and E and A. But in order for 
the criteria for a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to 
be successful, the person who paid for the services (Mr R) needed to have a 
contractual relationship with the venue. Mr R didnt have a contract with the venue so 
it wasnt unfair or unreasonable of Barclays to have declined his claim.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his case, so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone pays for something using their credit card, and something goes wrong, 
theres no general obligation on the credit card issuer to provide a refund. However, the 
credit card issuer may have a legal obligation to their account holder under Section 75 of the 
CCA, or be able to help them through the dispute resolution mechanism administered by the 
card schemes (normally known as chargeback). 
Section 75 of the CCA gives a legal right for the account holder (the debtor) to claim 
against their credit card issuer in respect of breach of contract or misrepresentation by a 
supplier of goods or services, where certain criteria have been met.
Chargeback allows for a refund to be made of money paid with a credit card in certain 
scenarios, such as when goods have been paid for and not received. This is normally known 
as a chargeback. A consumer cannot insist on a card issuer attempting a chargeback, but I 
would expect it to attempt one, as a matter of good practice, if there was a reasonable 
prospect of it succeeding. As that last sentence suggests, chargebacks are not guaranteed 
to succeed and the opposite party to a chargeback can contest (defend) it. Chargebacks 
can be made or defended for a variety of reasons set out in detailed rules published by the 
relevant card scheme (in this case, Visa).
The nature of the dispute between the venue and E and A
Before analysing whether Barclays dealt with the chargeback and Section 75 claims fairly, it 
would be useful to look a bit closer at what the dispute was between E and A, and the 
venue. Its important to bear in mind that, when E and A cancelled, things were still in the 
organising and planning stage and their wedding date was around a year away. Its apparent 
E and A were, until relations soured with the venue, intending to discuss changes and 
adjustments and they did not consider things to have been finalised.
Having carefully read the correspondence between the parties, I think E and A became 
worried about what appeared to them to be the venues poor communication and 
organisation, and the attitude it displayed to their concerns. As a result, they wanted to 
cancel the agreement long before the services to be provided under it were to go ahead. The 
venues position was that E and A could cancel but it would cost them their deposit.
Ill now go on to consider how Barclays handled the dispute.
Did Barclays deal with the chargeback fairly?
Barclays attempted a chargeback on the £3,000 deposit in May 2020. Exactly what reasons 
in the Visa rules the bank used to attempt the chargeback are unclear, but the most 
appropriate reason under the rules, based on the nature of the dispute, would in my view 
have been Cancelled Merchandise/Services. This covers scenarios where someone has 
cancelled services and hasnt received a refund.The venue defended the chargeback, arguing the deposit was non-refundable. I think this 
was a valid defence to the chargeback. This is because the rules say that a chargeback of 
this type can be defended if the merchant can show it disclosed a limitedcancellation 
policy at the time of the payment. 
The venue had sent E and A quotes prior to the payment being made, which said the deposit 
was non-refundable. So the venue had the evidence it needed to defend the chargeback. 
Barclays had the option of pushing the chargeback process further, but I dont think its likely 
to have been successful in obtaining a refund based on the evidence. Ultimately I dont think 
it acted unreasonably in deciding not to pursue this avenue further.
Should Barclays have honoured the Section 75 claim?
Neither Barclays nor our investigator thought Mr R could make a valid claim against the bank 
under Section 75 of the CCA, because Mr R didnt have a contract with the venue.
When someone makes a payment on their credit card, in order to make a valid section 75 
claim against their credit card issuer they need to have used the credit card to pay a 
company they have a claim against for breach of contract or misrepresentation. While the 
reality can be slightly more complicated, its a generally accurate description.
This is because Section 75 of the CCA is worded as follows:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
The debtor here is Mr R. This is because his credit card account was used to pay the 
deposit. The transaction is the contract with the venue. The supplier is the venue. As can be 
seen from the text of Section 75, it is the debtor who needs to have a claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Does Mr R have a claim against the venue? In his initial letter to this service, Mr R said 
neither he nor E had received a written contract from the venue, and he considered that as 
he had made the payment the contractual issues are between ourselves [Mr and Mrs R] 
and [the venue].
I dont think this is the correct analysis. The available evidence shows the following:
E and A had been regular guests at the venue and had a pre-existing relationship.
All communication with the venue came from E and A.
E and A met with the venue.
The quotes for the wedding were in E and As name.
Neither Mr R nor Mrs R were mentioned in the communications with the venue, even 
in the context of paying the deposit.
This indicates to me that Mr Rs involvement in the arrangements was limited to making the 
payment on his credit card account. He was not a party to any agreement with the venue. E 
and A were the couple getting married and were the ones discussing, planning and 
negotiating the contract with the venue. The agreement was clearly between E and A, and 
the venue.This is where Mr Rs Section 75 claim runs into the buffers, as it means he does not have a 
claim against the venue for breach of contract or misrepresentation. Without a claim against 
the venue he has no claim against the bank either, and it was therefore not unreasonable for 
it to have declined to honour his claim.
After our investigator issued her assessment, Mr R sent in an extract from a well-known 
consumer affairs website which he has suggested is supportive of him being able to make a 
valid section 75 claim against Barclays. Ive read the extract and I dont think it assists Mr R, 
as it is referring to scenarios where a person has paid a different company to the one they 
have entered a contract with. The difficulty Mr R has is not that hes paid a different 
company, its that he doesnt have any contractual relationship with the venue which would 
allow him to make a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. So this new 
information doesnt change my decision.
I appreciate this outcome will disappoint Mr R. But Im only deciding whether the complaint 
about Barclays should be upheld. It doesnt necessarily mean I agree with or approve of the 
venues actions. E and A may wish to explore any other avenues available to them against 
the venue, but thats not something this service can advise on.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman