DRN-3103026
The complaint
Mr T complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) who failed to provide an annual 
service, regarding his home emergency insurance. 
What happened
BG contacted Mr T inviting him to book for an annual service of this boiler. At the time, Mr T 
was unable to book for the annual service as he was shielding due to Covid 19. Mr T 
received a reminder from BG to book. When he chose to book, Mr T found there to be 
limited availability of appointments. Consequently, an appointment date was given, that Mr T 
said was unsuitable for him. 
Mr T said that he attempted to change the appointment, but this proved difficult and he 
raised a complaint with BG. Mr T received an acknowledgment letter from BG and later 
received a letter notifying him that it had suspended all non-emergency work, due to the 
Covid 19 restrictions. It also cancelled his annual service. 
In its final response, BG apologised for the level of service that Mr T received. It offered and 
paid £65 as a goodwill gesture, in recognition of the inconvenience Mr T experienced. Mr T 
remained unhappy with this outcome and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that BG had accepted that it hadnt provided an annual service and that it had offered 
£65 for the inconvenience caused.
She also confirmed that BG had advised that had Mr T suffered a boiler breakdown, it would 
still be covered. She concluded that BG had been fair and was still happy to arrange a boiler 
service at Mr Ts convenience. 
BG were satisfied with the view. Mr T was not. He said that the view failed to answer why 
there was a refusal to pay compensation for the cancelled annual service. And why there 
was an inability to address unethical organisational practices. So, he asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that Mr T will be disappointed 
with this outcome, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
I note that Mr T has made several detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
My understanding of Mr Ts complaint is that BG refused to pay compensation for the 
inconvenience and poor service that he experienced in his attempt to book an annual 
service. Mr T is also unhappy with the way in which BG markets its home emergency 
service, when its unable to service its existing customers. 
Mr T said that after the first invitation for him to book an annual service, BG sent a reminder 
when he had failed to book. Mr T initially was unable to book as he was shielding. He said 
that when he wanted to book, there was a limited amount of appointments available and the 
first appointment available, wasnt until around three months later, which he felt was 
unacceptable. 
BG confirmed that they had initially sent Mr T a first invitation but received no response from 
him. This then prompted another invitation to book for an annual service. It confirmed that 
had Mr T been able to book an appointment when it had initially sent out the invitation, it was 
likely that he wouldve been able to book an appointment at a more suitable time.
 
BG confirmed that closer to the winter months the demand for annual services increased. In 
addition to the increased demand, there was a global pandemic which affected BG. It said 
that the effect of this, was that fewer appointments were available across the organization. 
But as it was Mr T who initially delayed booking the annual service (and I accept that he had 
a reason for this) it wouldnt be reasonable or fair for BG to be held wholly responsible for 
the delay in the annual service. 
Both parties accepted that it wasnt until around three months after the second invitation to 
book the annual service, that BG could offer an appointment. It said that this wasnt its usual 
practice. But given the issues regarding the pandemic and it having to prioritize emergency 
call outs, this was the reason why the annual service couldnt be offered sooner.
BG apologized for the cancelled annual service and paid £65 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused. Mr T accepted this payment but seeks further compensation for BG 
having failed to conduct the annual service sooner. 
I have had a look at the terms and conditions of the policy. I understand that Mr T has 
insurance that covers boiler, controls and central heating on a service and repair basis. 
The policy which Mr T was contracted to, makes it clear that annual services can take place 
after 12 months:
Well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter, text message or well call you to 
arrange your annual service. Well try to contact you up to three times. If we dont hear back 
from you after the third time or you are not at the property when our engineer visits, we 
wont try again and wont refund the cost of the missed annual service. You can still contact 
us at any time to book it. Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after 
your last service visit. In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as 
cold weather), we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr T was made aware that this was a possibility and BG could 
prioritise breakdowns and rearrange annual services, where necessary. 
Our role isnt to fine or to punish the businesses we cover. Rather, we look at the effect on 
the customer including their upset. I can understand why Mr T was frustrated because he 
couldnt secure an appointment sooner. But having considered the impact on Mr T of not securing the appointment for the annual service when he wouldve liked, I think the impact 
was minimal and Im satisfied that BG was fair and reasonable in offering and paying the 
level of compensation to Mr T. As well as apologising for the poor service and inconvenience 
it provided. 
I have next considered Mr Ts further issue of complaint regarding BGs aggressively 
marketing its products to gain new business. Our role isnt to tell a business how it can 
operate. Our remit is to examine whether a business has been fair and reasonable and 
whether we think it needs to do anything to put matters right. 
As Ive explained, BG accepted that its level of service was below its usual standards and 
rectified this with its offer of compensation. It is good that BG has confirmed that it has now 
carried out the annual service.  Accordingly, I dont think BG was unreasonable in its offer 
nor do I think I can fairly ask BG to increase the compensation further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the offer of £65 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman