DRN-3919689
The complaint
Miss T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to raise a chargeback in relation to some 
clothes she had returned.
What happened
In October 2022 Miss T bought some clothes online from abroad, and paid nearly £280 for 
them with her Lloyds debit card. When the clothes arrived in January, she found them to be 
of low quality, and so she asked Lloyds for a refund. Lloyds told her that under the 
chargeback rules, she would first have to return the clothes to the retailer and then wait 14 or 
15 days for the retailer to respond. Only if she had not received a refund after that could 
Lloyds raise a chargeback.
In February 2023 Miss T returned the clothes to the retailer, and sent proof of posting to 
Lloyds by email. However, this email was not connected to her earlier phone call, and so it 
was not acted on. Lloyds says that was because it had not raised a chargeback yet.
On 5 March Miss T contacted Lloyds again and asked to raise a chargeback. She told 
Lloyds that the retailer had not refunded her. Lloyds temporarily credited her account with 
£280. On 10 March Lloyds texted Miss T to ask her to send it proof that the clothes and been 
returned to the retailer  specifically, the tracking number and the date of delivery. Lloyds 
received no reply. In May, Lloyds told Miss T that it was now too late to raise a chargeback, 
and re-debited the money from her account. This left her account overdrawn, which caused 
her problems.
Miss T was dissatisfied. She pointed out that she had asked Lloyds for a refund within the 
chargeback time limit, and that she had sent Lloyds proof of the clothes being returned to the 
retailer. She complained, but Lloyds said it had done nothing wrong (except for keeping her 
on the phone for too long when it had put her call through to the wrong department; it paid 
her £80 for that and refunded her call costs). Lloyds said that as it had not raised a 
chargeback in January, there had been nothing on file to connect Miss Ts February email to. 
Consequently, in March it had asked her to send proof that she had returned the clothes. 
After the chargeback time limit had run out without receiving a reply, Lloyds had closed her 
case, and had re-debited her money, which it had told her could happen in March.
Miss T brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator accepted Lloydss 
explanation. Miss T insisted that as she had provided the requested evidence well within 
time, Lloyds should have raised a chargeback in February. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The deadline for raising a chargeback was 120 days from the date the clothes were 
delivered to Miss T. As Ive said, they were delivered in January, so the time ran out in May. 
Therefore I agree that Miss T did ask Lloyds to raise a chargeback in time, and she did 
provide the necessary evidence in time.
The trouble is that when Miss T provided that evidence in February, no chargeback had 
been raised yet. There was nothing in the email to explain what it was about, or any context. 
So it wasnt acted upon.
I dont think that is terribly good service by Lloyds. On receiving a confusing email, Lloyds 
should have just replied to it with a quick question asking Miss T what it was about. 
However, in the light of what happened in March  when Lloyds asked Miss T for the same 
evidence and she didnt reply  I dont think that would have made any difference. So I cant 
reasonably uphold this complaint on that basis.
As Ive said, in March Lloyds texted Miss T to ask her to send some evidence. Of course, 
she knew she had already sent this evidence. That should have alerted her to the fact that 
something had gone wrong, and prompted her to get in touch, but she didnt, and so an 
opportunity to fix the mistake in February was missed. Consequently, Lloyds never received 
the evidence it needed to raise a chargeback.
In May, Lloyds sent Miss T a letter asking her to get in touch. I think that letter is irrelevant, 
because the chargeback time limit had expired the day before. Two week later, Lloyds sent 
her another letter, telling her that her claim for a refund had been unsuccessful.
I have thought about whether sending Miss T just one text message was enough. On 
balance, I think it was, although there is of course a small risk that one text could be 
overlooked by the recipient. But I am reinforced in my opinion by the fact that in January 
Lloyds had told Miss T that it had not raised a chargeback for her yet. Since the bank sent 
her no acknowledgement of her February email, confirming that a chargeback was now 
underway, I think that Lloyds cannot be blamed for Miss T thinking that she had done 
enough to begin the chargeback process by sending the February email. It had done nothing 
to suggest that a chargeback was in progress. And it did not hear from her again until after 
the time to raise a chargeback had run out.
For these reasons, I do not think the bank could have raised a chargeback claim. It did not 
have the evidence it needed (or did not know it had that evidence), and so a chargeback 
could not have succeeded.
Lloyds was then entitled to re-debit the money from Miss Ts account. If that left the account 
overdrawn, then Im afraid that cannot be helped.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman