DRN-1433690
The complaint
Ms O has complained that PayPal Europe Sarl & CIE SCA is holding her liable for two 
transactions which she says she didnt make or authorise.
What happened
On 6 August 2019, Ms Os PayPal account was used to make an online purchase from a 
retailer, which I will refer to as B, for £1, 067.99. On 9 August 2019, her account was used to 
make another online purchase to B for £1,104.99. And on 10 August it was used to make a 
third transaction for £75.50 to purchase train tickets. 
Ms O says she received an email for the transaction on 6 August 2019, but the delivery 
wasnt in her name. She says when the transaction on 10 August 2019 was made, she was 
in the hairdressers and later that day flew overseas for a holiday. Shes also checked her 
online account with B, which confirmed she hadnt placed an order within six months prior to 
the transactions. Ms O says she didnt carry out the transactions and has not disclosed her 
account details to anyone. 
Ms O complained to PayPal and provided evidence of her hair appointment and holiday. 
PayPal investigated Ms Os dispute and refunded the £1,104.99 transaction after B had 
failed to provide additional proof of postage and tracking information when PayPal had 
requested.
 
PayPal declined to refund the remaining transactions on the basis that there was no 
evidence Ms Os account had been compromised. PayPal provided evidence to show that 
the shipping address relating to the £1,067.99 transaction had been used by Ms O since 
February 2019, for orders from B. And evidence of all the IP addresses relating to successful 
log ins to Ms Os account, which it said showed Ms O had made the transactions. 
Ms O brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into things. Before 
reaching his view, the investigator asked PayPal to provide more information to show Ms O 
had authorised the transactions. He asked PayPal to provide log in details for each of the 
disputed transactions and for evidence that it had been provided with proof of 
postage/delivery from B for the transaction made on 6 August 2019. But PayPal didnt 
provide anything. 
The investigator said under the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs), PayPal were required 
to refund unauthorised transactions. And based on the evidence hed seen, he thought it 
was unlikely Ms O had authorised the transactions. So, he said PayPal should refund the 
transactions and pay Ms O £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
PayPal disagreed, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The PSRs primarily require financial institutions to refund customers if they didnt make or 
authorise transactions themselves. Ms O says she didnt make the transactions. So, my 
primary concern is to decide whether or not I think Ms O authorised the payments from her 
account. If I decide on the balance of probabilities that she did, then Im unlikely to ask 
PayPal to refund them.
The investigator has explained, in detail, why he doesnt consider the transactions were 
authorised. PayPal has provided some information. But despite being asked by the 
investigator, it hasnt provided evidence to show how the transactions were authorised  in 
this case, that the personal security details or finger print on Ms Os device were used to log 
in to her account to authorise the payments. So, PayPal hasnt been able to show that the 
transactions were authenticated.
 
From looking at the evidence PayPal has provided about how Ms O accessed her account, I 
can see Ms O usually accessed her account via a specific IP address through her thumbprint 
on a mobile app linked to her network provider. However, on 6 August 2019, the log in to Ms 
Os account was made from an IP address that hadnt been used before via a different 
network provider. PayPal havent provided any evidence to show how the account was 
accessed on 6 and 10 August 2019, despite requests from the investigator. Therefore, under 
the PSRs, PayPal cannot hold Ms O liable for the payments in dispute.
 
Ms O has provided evidence that at the time of the transaction on 10 August 2019, she was 
having her hair done and then flew overseas for a holiday later that afternoon. Shes also 
provided evidence that she hadnt placed any orders with B for more than six months. And 
that shed received an email relating to the 10 August 2018 purchase in someone elses 
name. Ive also noted that the disputed transactions do not fit well with Ms Os genuine 
activity. And that PayPal hasnt provided any evidence to show goods were supplied to Ms O 
such as tracking information. So, when I weigh everything up, Im satisfied that Ms Os 
testimony has been consistent and credible, and Ive got no basis on which to disbelieve her 
or to think its likely she consented to the payments. 
In summary, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I can only conclude that Ms O 
didnt make or authorise these transactions. 
Its also clear to me that Ms O has spent a good deal of time trying to sort things out and has 
been quite upset by what has happened. So, I think its fair she gets paid compensation for 
the trouble and upset shes been caused. I believe £100 is a fair and reasonable amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie SCA should:
Refund Ms O the disputed transactions
Pay Ms O £100 for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman