DRN-2972364
The complaint
Miss A complains that she isnt properly named on Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide)s systems.
What happened
Miss A has a sister with the same Christian name initial, and no second name. They both 
have accounts with Nationwide. On their statements and correspondence, they are both 
shown in the same way  only by their initial. Miss A is represented in her complaint by her 
father, but I will refer to Miss A here.
Miss A complains that she opens her sisters post from Nationwide and vice versa. This 
causes them concern. She asked Nationwide to show their Christian names, but they cant  
due to systems constraints. And over time, these problems will get worse. She also thinks 
that it could lead to a breach of GDPR.
Nationwide explained how their systems are configured. But  they cant change things to 
show the Christian names of Miss A and her sister. They suggested they change the 
correspondence to show them as Miss and Ms to make it clearer.
Miss A asked that that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how frustrating this must be for Miss A  and one would have thought that there 
should be a simple solution to this. But Nationwide have explained  at some length and in 
detail  how their systems are set up and how they cant change things to show the Christian 
names of Miss A and her sister. They offered the solution of showing them as Miss and Ms 
 but she doesnt accept that this is a good way forward.
Let me say that this service exists to resolve disputes between customers and financial 
businesses. We dont regulate those businesses  thats the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). So  we dont interfere and ask for changes in systems, operations or commercial 
decision-making  unless we see that theres an unfair outcome that results.  
In this case  I dont consider there have been unfair or unreasonable impacts on Miss A 
and her sister. Shes not said there has been any financial harm  although over time, one 
sister opening the others post could be embarrassing. I can see that Nationwide have 
offered a reasonable solution, and I would encourage Miss A to take advantage of that. 
Depending on how strongly Miss A feels - another way forward would be to open an account 
with another bank for Miss A or her sister  that would ensure there would be no confusion.
Miss A has said there could be a breach of GDPR  but the owners of that are the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO), not us  and therefore she should approach them 
about that concern.
Other than that  I just dont think that in all fairness, I can decide against Nationwide in this 
case, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman