DRN-4138756
The complaint
Ms C is complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim she made on a block 
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C was selling a flat she owned and on the day of completion the estate agent and buyer 
informed her that the shower screen in the property had shattered. So she contacted Aviva 
to claim on the property insurance policy that covered the building. Aviva instructed a third-
party company  who I shall refer to as M  to handle the claim.
M ultimately declined the claim as it said the pattern of the breakage was consistent with 
Nickel Sulphide Inclusions (NSI). It said NSI causes failure over time where it will slowly 
grow and in time cause enough localised stress in the surrounding glass to cause the screen 
to crack and spontaneously fail in the way it did. It said the policy doesnt cover Damage 
caused by or consisting of inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear. 
Ms C didnt agree with Ms decision, so referred her complaint to this Service. Our 
investigator upheld this complaint as she didnt think Aviva had given us enough to show that 
the above exclusion applied. She said that the policy simply said it covered damage to fixed 
glass and it defined damage as damage shall mean physical loss destruction or damage. 
She said Ms C had demonstrated that the shower screen was damaged, so it was for Aviva 
to show that an exclusion clause applied. And she didnt think the report went into detail why 
M believed the cause was NSI and didnt provide sufficient supporting evidence. So she 
thought Aviva should reconsider the claim.
Aviva didnt agree with the investigator as it queried what else could have caused the 
damage as it highlighted that Ms C had said there wasnt anyone present at the property 
when the damage occurred.
As Aviva didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. Ill now 
explain why.
The terms of the policy set out the following cover:
Glass Cover
The Policy extends to indemnify the Insured in respect of Damage to fixed glass.
So it was Ms Cs responsibility to show that there was damage to fixed glass, which is what 
she has done. It would then fall upon Aviva to demonstrate theres a policy exclusion or 
breach of condition that means the claim isnt covered. Aviva says that the damage is 
caused by NSI which has caused a gradual deterioration of the glass over time which has 
caused the glass to shatter. So its relying on the following exclusion to decline the claim:
Section 1 - Property Damage and Section 2 - Loss of Revenue do not cover
1. Damage caused by or consisting of
a) inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear or its own faulty or 
defective design or materials but this shall not exclude subsequent Damage which itself 
results from a cause not otherwise excluded
However, I agree with the investigator that its for Aviva to demonstrate that this exclusion 
applies. I do not dispute that NSI may be the cause of the damage. But Im conscious that M 
said in its claim decline letter that NSI could be the cause. So it hasnt been definitive in its 
conclusion and it seems to have been what Aviva and M think is the cause. But it hasnt 
provided anything to support this. 
I recognise that its queried what else could have caused the damage. But its not for Ms C to 
show the exclusion clause doesnt apply  its for Aviva to show it does apply. And, as Ive 
said, I dont think Aviva has given us enough to show that it does. So I think Aviva should 
settle the claim in line with the terms of the policy. Ms C has paid to replace the shower 
screen and repair the consequential damage caused to the shower tray, which I also think is 
covered by the policy. So I think Aviva should refund what shes paid, less any applicable 
excess.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to refund the amount Ms C paid to replace the shower screen and 
repair the consequential damage caused to the shower tray less any applicable excess. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest of this amount from when Ms C paid it until she gets it 
back. If Aviva Insurance Limited thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman