DRN-3578381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited avoided their life and critical 
illness assurance policies and refused Mr Gs claim.  
Mr and Mrs G are represented by a firm that Ill refer to as R.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 28 December 2017 Mr and Mrs G applied for two joint policies with Aviva. The first was a 
decreasing life assurance policy with an initial sum assured of about £221,000. The second 
was a critical illness policy providing £40,000 of level cover. Both were set up over a 17-year 
term.
Mr G was diagnosed with bile duct cancer and so submitted a claim under the critical illness 
policy in June 2020. Aviva declined the claim as they considered Mr G misrepresented his 
health when he applied for cover. They said Mr G told them he drank ten pints per week of 
ordinary strength beer, lager or cider. Whereas Mr Gs medical records show an entry on 
29 January 2018 that noted his weekly alcohol intake as 65 units per week. Aviva also 
referred to subsequent visits to the GP in December 2019, in which Mr Gs alcohol 
consumption was discussed, including a recommendation for him to reduce his intake. 
Aviva explained that, had they been aware of Mr Gs weekly intake of 65 units per week and 
consistently high levels of alcohol consumption, they wouldnt have been able to offer him 
cover (on both policies). Aviva avoided the policies, refused the claim and refunded the 
premiums paid. 
R complained to Aviva on Mr and Mrs Gs behalf about this. In short, they said:
There was no history of excess alcohol intake in Mr Gs medical records.
Aviva wrote to Mr Gs GP asking about his height/weight, smoking history and 
alcohol consumption when considering the claim. This information was irrelevant to 
confirming the insured event had occurred and so it would seem that Aviva were 
looking for inconsistencies in the information provided in the initial application, 
effectively re-underwriting the policies. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidelines clearly state that there must be 
reasonable justification to request information beyond confirming the insured event 
occurred. Mr G cannot understand what couldve prompted Aviva to ask these 
additional questions.
Mr G was asked in the application how much alcohol do you drink on an average 
week, not how much he had recently consumed which is what he was asked by the 
GP in January 2018. Due to the festive period and a lack of understanding of exactly 
how many units were in a drink (Aviva asked about drinks not units, whereas the GP 
asked specifically about units) he may have overestimated his intake at that point. 
Mr G however believes he was honest about his average alcohol consumption when 
he filled in the application. 
The next appointments with the GP, almost 23 months later, noted that he was 
drinking around three quarters of a bottle of wine per day. Mr G claims this however 
was every other day. In any event, these appointments are irrelevant as it was nearly 
two years after the policies were taken out. 
There is little to no evidence to support Avivas suggestion that Mr G was consuming 
65 units per week on average before the application was made, and Mr G asserts the 
GP notes have been taken out of context. Mr G has given a reasonable explanation 
as to why the GPs record in January 2018 was higher than normal  this being due 
to the festival period, a lack of understanding of units in alcoholic drinks and his GP 
asking how much he had drank recently (not on average). 
Avivas position didnt change and, in short, they said:
Although Mr G didnt receive advice to reduce his alcohol consumption prior to 
applying, he did provide information to his GP a few weeks later indicating that he 
didnt answer the question  how much alcohol do you drink in an average week?  
correctly. 
Mr G disclosed he was drinking ten pints of ordinary strength beer. But, a few weeks 
later when he visited his GP, he was asked a series of questions about his alcohol 
consumption over the past year. In these answers Mr G confirmed that he was 
consuming alcohol daily/almost daily, 7-9 units per day on average and was 
consuming 8 or more units per day more than four times per week. This resulted in 
an Audit C score of 11/12.
There is also an entry from 29 January 2018 confirming that Mr G was consuming 65 
units per week.
Although Mr G may not have been clear about the exact units of consumption during 
the appointment, the questions asked in the Audit C questionnaire didnt ask him to 
calculate his overall weekly unit consumption (but answer a series of questions). The 
answers Mr G provided in this questionnaire werent in keeping with the application 
disclosure. 
Had they been aware of Mr Gs accurate level of alcohol consumption, they wouldnt 
have been able to offer him cover and so wouldve declined his application.
As part of any claims assessment theyre entitled to ask questions of a medical 
professional to establish both the diagnosis of a claimable condition and understand 
if there are any related previous risk factors they shouldve been made aware of at 
application stage. They were satisfied the questions they asked Mr Gs GP were 
appropriate.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Aviva, at this point, added that 
they considered Mr G made further misrepresentations when applying. They said Mr G 
disclosed his weight as 14 stone and 2 lbs in the application, whereas it was recorded as 
104kg (16 stone and 5 lbs) in the January 2019 GP visit. Aviva said this wouldve resulted in 
a premium loading for Mr Gs critical illness policy of +25. 
Aviva also considered Mr G ought to have disclosed a laparoscopy procedure he underwent 
in 2014 - for which Mr G has said was related to lower back pain and resolved after changing 
his posture while sitting. Although this hasnt been verified by Mr Gs medical records, if 
there wasnt anything significant found from the laparoscopy and Mr G hadnt had symptoms 
for the past three years, Aviva said this wouldnt have affected the terms offered. 
Our investigator thought Mr Gs complaint should be partly upheld. In short, he said:
He thought it was reasonable for Aviva to ask for information about Mr Gs medical 
consumption as part of their claims assessment. He couldnt see anything from Mr Gs medical records to show his alcohol 
consumption was as high as 65 units per week, that hed been told to reduce his 
intake or that he had abnormal liver function tests before applying. And although hed 
considered the Audit C test questionnaire completed in January 2018, he didnt think 
this could accurately show how much Mr G was drinking. This was because, based 
on the answers Mr G provided, it could be anything between 32 and 63 units per 
week.
He didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to show Mr G was consuming 65 units, or 
close to this amount, per week on average before he applied for cover.  
He didnt consider the laparoscopy procedure a qualifying misrepresentation, as 
based on what Aviva had put forward, they said it wouldnt have affected the terms 
offered.
Although weight can fluctuate, he thought it was unlikely Mr Gs weight wouldve 
gone up to 16 stone and 5 lbs in the four-week period between applying for cover 
and attending the GP appointment. And if Mr G was unsure of his weight then he 
couldve weighed himself at the time. So, he thought Mr G misrepresented his 
weight. And he was satisfied, having seen Avivas underwriting criteria, that they 
wouldve applied a premium loading. This meant for the premiums Mr G paid he 
wouldve got £32,000 of critical illness cover.
He recommended Aviva reinstate both policies, adjust the critical illness cover to 
£32,000 and reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. And, if a 
claim is payable, Aviva should apply 8% simple interest from the date the claim was 
initially declined.
He also recommended £250 compensation be paid to Mr and Mrs G.
Aviva didnt agree and, in short, have added the following points:
The GP surgery has confirmed they dont retain copies of the Audit C questionnaire, 
but it was specifically recorded that 65 units were being consumed. They consider it 
more likely than not that this is correct. And theyre entitled to rely on the medical 
records and information provided by Mr Gs GP. 
Its widely recognised that most of the population rarely seek medical attention 
relating to alcohol and, when asked about their consumption, they would 
underestimate it. The date of 29 January 2018 is arbitrary as this is simply the date in 
which Mr G was asked about the amount he was drinking. However, people dont go 
from drinking zero to 65 units of alcohol per week on a regular basis. Mr G could just 
as easily have had the appointment on a different date, such as before the 
application was submitted, and his alcohol consumption is unlikely to have been 
recorded differently.
They think its relevant that Mr G also failed to disclose the laparoscopy procedure 
despite being asked clear questions, as well as under-disclosing his weight and 
alcohol consumption. They consider this demonstrates that Mr G failed to take 
appropriate care to consider the questions being asked of him and/or he made the 
choice to only tell them what he considered relevant.
Given all the circumstances, and that these facts were well within Mr Gs knowledge 
at the time of applying, they considered the misrepresentations to be deliberate. 
R added that they dont dispute Mr G was most likely heavier than what he declared on the 
application, but they feel, as he hadnt weighed himself in sometime its fair to suggest that 
he didnt accurately know his weight. Mr G provided his last accurate weight measurement. 
As Mr G told the truth to the best of his ability they consider it would be harsh to apply this 
policy rating.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
investigator and for similar reasons. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by not 
accurately disclosing his alcohol consumption or weight. And that he failed to disclose a 
laparoscopy procedure he underwent in 2014.
Before I go on to consider these, I want to explain that I likewise agree with our investigator 
that it was reasonable for Aviva to request the medical information they did to consider 
Mr Gs claim. I think the information requested was relevant and proportionate for the 
condition being claimed for  particularly in regard to alcohol consumption as there is a 
potential link between excessive drinking and bile duct cancer. 
Ive firstly considered whether Mr G misrepresented his alcohol consumption. And the 
relevant question Aviva asked Mr G was how much alcohol do you drink in an average 
week?. He was then given the following options:
Pints of ordinary strength beer, lager or cider (less than 5% strength)
 Pints of strong or premium beer, lager or cider (% strength or more)
 Glasses of wine
 Single measures / shots of spirits or bottle of alcopops
Mr G answered that he had ten pints of ordinary strength of beer and zero to the other 
options. He was also asked whether hed ever been advised by a health care professional 
or a counsellor to reduce [his] alcohol use, see a specialist or attend a support group 
because of [his] alcohol use?. Mr G answered this no. 
Based on Mr Gs application answer, he was drinking about 25 units of alcohol on average 
per week. There isnt however anything in Mr Gs medical records to evidence exactly how 
much he was drinking at the time of applying (or shortly before), and whether the disclosure 
he was made was accurate. The nearest medical record is the GP appointment of 
29 January 2018  about four weeks later - that noted Mr Gs weekly alcohol intake as 65 
units per week, and which also recorded an Audit C score of 11/12. Aviva consider this, 
along with the GP records from December 2019 that suggest excessive drinking, makes it 
more likely than not Mr G misrepresented his alcohol consumption when applying. They consider Mr G knowingly under disclosed it and so believe the misrepresentation to be 
deliberate.
Ive given this careful consideration but I disagree. Ill explain why.
Im not persuaded that the Audit C questionnaire gives an accurate reflection of Mr Gs 
average alcohol consumption. This is because, as our investigator pointed out, based on the 
answers Mr G gave in the questionnaire it could demonstrate Mr G was drinking as low as 
32 units per week. So, although I note that it couldve been higher than this, the lowest end 
of the range would be close  and broadly in line - to the amount Mr G disclosed. It follows 
that I dont think the Audit C questionnaire demonstrates Mr G misrepresented his alcohol 
consumption. 
It is however noted in Mr Gs medical records that he was consuming 65 units of alcohol per 
week. I think this is a more reliable indicator of Mr Gs consumption at that time. That said, 
Ive also taken into consideration Mr Gs explanation that the reason for this is because his 
GP asked him how many units he had recently been drinking. And it was inflated due to the 
festive period as well as a lack of understanding of exactly how many units are in an 
alcoholic drink. 
Ive thought about this and I consider this to be a credible explanation. This is because I 
think its entirely plausible that Mr G drank more over the festive period as its quite 
commonly accepted people often indulge at that time of the year. There also isnt anything to 
evidence what Mr G was asked by the GP at the time. And so, in the absence of anything to 
show otherwise, I think its possible the conversation between with the GP was around 
recent, rather than average, alcohol consumption as Mr G claims. 
Ive considered the December 2019 GP records but these dont provide any context into 
Mr Gs historical alcohol consumption prior to the application, only what he was drinking at 
that time. Its possible that Mr Gs drinking habits may have changed during this two-year 
period  which arguably is evidenced by the change from drinking beer, lager or cider to 
wine. It follows that, given the length of time between the application and these records, I 
dont think they are particularly relevant here. 
On a further note, I think its also worth nothing that Mr G hasnt said, as Aviva suggested, 
that he went from drinking zero to 65 units of alcohol per week. I think hes openly disclosed 
that he drank alcohol when he applied. I also disagree with Aviva that, had the GP 
appointment occurred on a different date such as before the application, his alcohol 
consumption wouldve likely been recorded as the same (65 units). I dont think theres 
enough to fairly conclude that here. 
I therefore dont think Aviva has demonstrated that Mr G misrepresented his alcohol 
consumption when he applied for cover. 
Aviva has also suggested Mr G misrepresented his health by failing to disclose hed 
undergone a laparoscopy procedure in 2014. However, theyve not demonstrated that  had 
this been disclosed  it wouldve changed the terms offered. And so, in line with CIDRA, this 
isnt a qualifying misrepresentation and so no action can be taken. Ive therefore not 
considered this any further. 
Ive then considered whether Mr G misrepresented his weight. Having done so, I agree with 
our investigator that it is unlikely that Mr Gs weight increased by 1 stone and 3 lbs in such a 
short period of time. R has even accepted that Mr Gs weight was likely greater than what he 
disclosed. Because of this, I think Mr Gs weight was mispresented. And, while I understand 
Mr G may not have known his precise weight at the time, I think if he was unsure then it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr G to have checked it before applying. Or at least when 
he received the personal details confirmation that asked him to check whether the 
information provided in the application was correct. I dont think it was appropriate for Mr G to simply rely on a previous measurement which he would most likely have known to be 
inaccurate. I therefore think Mr G failed to take reasonable care when disclosing his weight.
Aviva has shown that, had Mr G accurately disclosed his weight, there wouldve been a 
premium loading applied to his critical illness cover. Im therefore satisfied this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Having given this careful thought, I think this 
misrepresentation was careless. This is because I dont think Mr G deliberately set out to 
mislead Aviva about his weight. I also consider the September 2019 ABI Code of Practice  
Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection 
Insurance Products relevant here. This is because it says:
7 Notes on misrepresentation that is deliberate or reckless
7.3 This category does not apply where:

7.3.2 The degree of relevance associated with the misrepresentation is 
relatively low and, in cases where a premium rating would have applied, the 
underlying risk premium rating resulting from that misrepresentation would not 
have been more than +50% (or £1/mill) for the applicable life assured. 
Given the premium loading wouldve been less than +50, I dont think it would be appropriate 
to classify this misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. 
The remedy under CIDRA for careless misrepresentation, whereby a higher premium 
wouldve been charged, allows an insurer to proportionately reduce the amount to be paid on 
a claim. In Mr Gs case, he wouldve had £32,000 of critical illness cover for the premiums he 
paid. I think that would be fair here.
It follows that I think Aviva should reinstate both policies, adjust the sum assured on the 
critical illness policy to £32,000 and reconsider Mr Gs claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms. If a claim is payable, then 8% simple interest should be added to recognise the loss of 
use of money. 
Ive also considered the impact of whats happened on Mr and Mrs G. And, I think having 
their policies avoided and Mr Gs claim declined wouldve been very troubling and caused 
them upset. I therefore think compensation is warranted and that the £250 recommended by 
our investigator to be a reasonable amount to recognise this. So, I think this should be paid 
too.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to:
Reinstate both of Mr and Mrs Gs policies.
Adjust the sum assured on Mr and Mrs Gs critical illness policy to £32,000.
Reassess Mr Gs claim in line with the remaining policy terms. If a claim is payable, 
then 8% simple interest should be added from the date the claim was declined to the 
date of settlement.
Pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs G. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman