DRN-3536320
The complaint
Miss L complains that My Finance Club Limited was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss L had five loans from My Finance Club between June 2019 and October 2019:
Loan Date Amount Term Scheduled 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 10 Jun 2019 £100 30d £124.40 10 Jul 2019 7 Jul 2019
2 15 Jul 2019 £100 18d £114.40 2 Aug 2019 On time
3 4 Aug 2019 £200 28d £244.80 1 Sep 2019 30 Aug 2019
4 15 Sep 2019 £100 28d £122.40 13 Oct 2019 1 Oct 2019
5 1 Oct 2019 £200 28d £244.80 29 Oct 2019 26 May 2020
Miss L says My Finance Club failed to carry out affordability checks after the first loan and 
that she had to re-borrow to make the repayments. She says she had multiple short-term 
loans with other companies and that she only managed to repay loan 5 with redundancy 
money. Miss L said the lending had a detrimental effect on her mental health and also 
contributed to a gambling problem.
My Finance Club says it asked Miss L for details of her employment, her income and 
expenditure and also checked her credit file. It says it asked for this information for every 
application and verified her income each time. My Finance Club says it also checked 
Miss Ls living arrangements and established she was living with parents and had no 
dependants. It adds that Miss L's credit file showed her existing credit was well-managed 
and it was satisfied the repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She was not satisfied that 
My Finance Club had carried out proportionate checks for all the loans and found the 
information that My Finance Club had, or should have had, indicated the lending was 
unsustainable.
My Finance Club did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer including:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting a risk of repeated refinancing 
signalling the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might indicate a consumer could sustainably 
make repayments, but it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and says a customer 
should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet them. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
When Miss L applied for these loans, I can see My Finance Club asked her about her 
income and expenditure and conducted a credit check. Im satisfied these checks went far 
enough because:
These were the first two loans Miss L had requested;
Miss Ls scheduled repayments were less than 9% of her income;
Her declared expenditure seemed reasonable given she lived at home with her 
parents and had no dependants;However, the credit check showed Miss L already had four short-term loans (and a fifth one 
that wasnt labelled as such) and an overdraft of almost £500 at the time of loan 1. This 
should have indicated to My Finance Club that Miss L was already struggling to manage her 
money and that its calculated disposable income of almost £800 was unlikely to be correct.
So I find it was irresponsible to have approved loans 1 and 2.
Loan 3
Miss L applied for loan 3 within two days of repaying loan 2. This time it was for twice the 
amount and I find proportionate checks should have included asking Miss L about her 
income and expenditure. Im satisfied My Finance Club did that but, again its credit check 
showed four outstanding short-term loans which should have indicated that further lending 
was likely to be unsustainable.
So, again, I find My Finance Club was irresponsible to have approved loan 3.
Loan 4
Although there was a two-week break before Miss L applied for loan 4, this was her fourth 
loan in three months and I consider that should have prompted My Finance Club to ask her 
specifically about other short-term loans, in additional to its usual checks. Although the credit 
report for loan 4 shows no short-term loans, in fact, Miss L was still repaying the four loans 
that showed on her previous reports.
So Im satisfied that proportionate checks for loan 4 would have shown My Finance Club that 
further lending was unsustainable.
Loan 5 
By loan 5, I find My Finance Club should have ensured it fully understood Miss Ls financial 
situation as five loans in fewer than four months could have been an indication that Miss L 
was becoming dependent on the lending. If My Finance Club had carried out proportionate 
checks, it would have found that Miss L was spending significant amounts of money on 
gambling and was using short-term loans to finance her addiction.
I find, therefore, that My Finance Club was wrong to have approved all of the loans.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress My Finance Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it refused to lend to Miss L, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss L may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss L would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce My Finance Clubs liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. My Finance Club Limited should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss L towards interest, fees 
and charges on the loans;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss L which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss L originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Miss L the total of A plus B;
D.Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file in relation to loans 
1 to 4. The overall pattern of Miss Ls borrowing for loan 5 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so loan 5 should be removed entirely from Miss Ls 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires My Finance Club to deduct tax from this interest. My 
Finance Club should give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman