DRN-2634538
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund two payments they 
made after falling victim to a scam. 
The complaint was brought by P as a representative for Mr and Mrs M, but as the account 
was held in Mr and Mrs Ms name, Ill refer to them throughout the decision.
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs M made some enquiries into investing in bonds. Through an internet 
search they found company S, which Mr and Mrs M say came up as a reputable company. 
They contacted company S and were sent a depositor agreement that needed to be 
completed and emailed back in order to invest. Mr and Mrs M completed the form in Mrs Ms 
sole name and emailed it back to S. 
On 9 April 2019 Mr and Mrs M made an initial investment payment of £25,000 to S, followed 
by a second payment of £25,000 on 10 April 2019.
Mr M and Mrs M received an email from S which included a link to Ss website, along with a 
user name and password so they could log in and see their investment. S confirmed that 
they had received the full deposit of £50,000 as well as the signed depositor documents.    
Mr and Mrs M say they received two separate emails confirming the receipt of their funds, 
one purporting to be from a compliance officer, and a second from a senior advisor.
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs M tried to log in to view their investment and found that the 
website no longer existed and that the phone number didnt connect. Mr and Mrs M 
contacted the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who advised them that S was a clone of a 
genuine investment company. 
Mr and Mrs M got in touch with Lloyds to let them know theyd been the victims of a scam, 
and asked Lloyds to recover the funds theyd lost.
Mr and Mrs M wanted P to be able to handle the fraud complaint for them and were told they 
needed to attend a Lloyds branch and add P to their account in order for that to happen.    
Mr and Mrs M attended a branch in February 2020 and asked for P to be added to their 
account. Mr and Mrs M say that P wasnt added to their account despite them talking to 
Lloyds several times. And it wasnt until March 2020, after a complaint had been raised, that 
P was added. Lloyds addressed the poor customer service Mr and Mrs M had experienced 
in relation to this and paid them compensation, which was accepted by Mr and Mrs M in 
resolution of that part of their complaint.
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs M were told by Lloyds theyd been unable to recover any funds 
from the beneficiary bank. So, Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint with Lloyds. Lloyds 
investigated and advised Mr and Mrs M that they wouldnt be refunding the £50,000, but 
accepted that they shouldve told Mr and Mrs M sooner that no funds were recoverable  
and offered them £250 in recognition of the poor level of service. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Lloyds response and brought their complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, she felt 
the two payments Mr and Mrs M made werent unusual enough that she wouldve expected 
them to flag with Lloyds, and as they were done online, she couldnt see there was a missed 
opportunity for Lloyds to identify that the payments may relate to a scam. She felt Lloyds 
took appropriate steps to try and recover Mr and Mrs Ms funds, and that the payment of 
£250 was appropriate compensation for the level of service they received.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying that until January 2019 there 
had not been large payments in or out of their account  therefore the payments were 
unusual and shouldve flagged with Lloyds. Also, that checks shouldve been done as the 
funds were paid to an unknown account.
As Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to 
review and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same opinion as the investigator for the same reasons, and 
Ill explain why.
In this case Mr and Mrs M authorised the payment via their online banking, although I accept 
that this was as a result of a sophisticated scam. So, although they did not intend the money 
to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of their account, Mr and Mrs M are presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly in processing Mr and Mrs Ms payments, or 
whether they shouldve done more to prevent the payments from being made.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms account I can see that in January 2019 Mr and Mrs M had 
a very large deposit into their account. Following that they made several large transfers or payments out of their account between January and April. They made several payments of 
£10,000 by various payment methods, a payment of £20,000 by bill payment and a payment 
of £40,000 by cheque.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms comment about the activity on the account prior to 
January 2019, I have to consider whether I think there was enough that was unusual and out 
of character about the two payments of £25,000 that I wouldve expected them to flag with 
Lloyds. And based on the account activity in the prior three months I dont think they 
shouldve flagged. Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ms point, but there has to be a 
reasonable balance between what will flag as suspicious and preventing consumers being 
able to use their account without checking each and every payment  which would be 
unmanageable and unreasonable. I think its likely that some of the early large payments 
they made in say January and February 2019 mayve flagged with Lloyds, but Im looking 
specifically at the two payments in April - which were made after three months of change in 
the activity on the account and after several payments of a similar size or larger had already 
been made.
Also, Mr and Mrs M have told us that they used the internet to search for companies to 
invest in and found S, which they say came up as reputable. Cloned companies rely on the 
fraudster making their company (S) look like it is a genuine FCA regulated company. The 
scam can be particularly sophisticated and persuasive which it was in this case. The 
depositor forms and emails that Mr and Mrs M were sent, looked like they were from a 
genuine investment company and mirrored the type of information and responses youd 
expect from an investment firm. From what Ive seen there wasnt any information online 
before May 2019, that suggested that S might not be a genuine company. The FCA didnt 
publish their notification of it being a cloned company until July 2019. Both of these were 
after Mr and Mrs M had already invested. So, I think any questioning by Lloyds wouldve 
been unlikely to deter Mr and Mrs M from investing anyway. 
But regardless, as Ive already said I dont think the payments shouldve flagged with Lloyds 
as being a potential indicator that Mr and Mrs M mayve been the victims of a scam, so I 
wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have questioned or probed Mr and Mrs M before 
processing the payments. And I therefore cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M raised a point about expecting Lloyds to have checked the name on the 
payments against the recipients bank account name. But the regulations and industry 
guidelines at the time of this transfer only required Lloyds to check the unique identifiers 
(i.e. the sort code and account number). In this case Mr and Mrs M provided a valid sort 
code and account number, albeit for the account held by the scammers. Whilst change is 
happening around confirmation of payee name against the account name  this wasnt in 
place at the time and cant fairly be retrospectively applied to Mr and Mrs Ms situation
Could Lloyds have recovered the funds for Mr and Mrs M?
Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank to try and recover any funds that were still in the 
recipients account. But all of the funds had already left the account by 30 April  which was 
before Mr and Mrs M were even aware of the scam. So, Im satisfied that there is nothing 
more that Lloyds couldve done to try and recover Mr and Mrs Ms funds.
However, Lloyds has acknowledged that the level of service Mr and Mrs M received was 
poor. Specifically in relation to the length of time it took for them to let Mr and Mrs M they 
were unable to recover any funds from the beneficiary bank.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that the £250 already offered by Lloyds is more than 
reasonable in the circumstances. I understand that Mr and Mrs M have suffered a lot of distress at the hands of the scammers, but I can only consider Lloyds actions in looking at 
the level of service they received. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to pay any further 
compensation.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M will be extremely disappointed, and Im sorry about the 
impact this scam has had on their health. But I cant fairly recommend or ask Lloyds to 
refund the money theyve lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman