DRN-2885961
The complaint
Mr A complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) failed to apply a 
pension contribution he had made within the correct tax year. 
What happened
Mr A holds pension savings with L&G. In September 2019 Mr A discussed with L&G whether 
he would be able to make a one-off contribution to his pension plan later that tax year. L&G 
confirmed to Mr A that he would be allowed to make that payment and sent him an email 
containing the necessary bank account information.
On 2 April 2020 Mr A tried, and failed, to contact L&G by telephone. So he replied to the 
email hed received in September 2019 seeking confirmation that the banking details it 
contained were still correct. He says he tried to make further contact by telephone the 
following day. But when he received no response to his email Mr A says he paid his pension 
contribution late on the evening of 3 April.
On Saturday 4 April 2020 L&G emailed Mr A to confirm that it had received his pension 
contribution. But it told him that, since it didnt process transactions over the weekend, it 
wouldnt be applied to his pension account until Monday 6 April  the first day of the new tax 
year.
Mr A complained to L&G when he received that email. He pointed out that the payment 
information he held was around six months out of date so it was entirely right that he should 
verify it before he made the payment. And he noted that another pension provider had 
received a payment from him on 5 April and processed it within the correct tax year. He said 
that L&Gs failure to process his payment meant he would incur a substantial income tax 
liability.
L&G didnt agree with Mr As complaint  it said it had never, and didnt ever expect to, 
process payments over a weekend. But it accepted that it hadnt responded to Mr As email 
on 2 April so paid him £30 in apology. Mr A didnt think L&Gs response was sufficient so he 
brought his complaint to this Service. 
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think L&G had 
acted unreasonably in not processing Mr As pension contribution over a weekend. And he 
didnt think that L&G should be influenced by the commercial decision of the other provider 
to deal with contributions that weekend. He thought that the compensation L&G had offered 
to Mr A for the delays in answering his email was fair. So he didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr A and by L&G. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The end of the tax year is always a busy period for pension providers, as consumers, such 
as Mr A, make contributions to maximise the tax benefits available to them. And, in 2020, 
those pressures were magnified by the start of the coronavirus pandemic, and the direction 
that all staff should work from home where possible. I dont make these comments in any 
attempt to excuse any shortcomings of L&G, but I think it important to reflect on the wider 
issues at the time Mr A tried to make his pension contribution.
I have listened to the phone call that Mr A had with L&G in September 2019. On that call 
L&G confirmed to him that he could make a one-off contribution to his pension plan. Mr A 
told L&G that he would most likely wait to make the contribution until towards the end of the 
tax year. And L&G confirmed that the payment details it had sent him by email were unlikely 
to change anytime soon.
As the end of the tax year approached, Mr A was ready to make the additional contribution 
to his pension plan. But he thought it prudent to reconfirm the payment details with L&G. So 
he says he attempted to make contact with the firm by phone on 2 April, and when that was 
unsuccessful, he sent an email  replying to the email hed been sent the previous 
September.
L&G didnt immediately respond to Mr As email enquiry. So he says he tried to call L&G 
again the following day. He says that call was also unsuccessful. So, Mr A says that he 
decided to make his pension contribution regardless  late on the evening of Friday 3 April. 
The following day L&G told Mr A that, although it had successfully received his payment, it 
wouldnt be processed until the next working day  Monday 6 April. So that meant it wasnt 
applied until the following tax year.
As I explained earlier, my role is to consider complaints between a consumer and a 
business. So it isnt generally appropriate for me to direct how a firm should decide to 
conduct its business. Here L&G made a commercial decision on when it would process 
pension contributions, and how they would be applied to consumers policies. Given that 
I think that approach was a reasonable exercise of L&Gs commercial judgement I cannot 
conclude that it acted unfairly.The operation of a pension policy is governed by a series of published terms and conditions. 
I havent seen the specific terms applicable to Mr As policy. However, in my experience, 
those terms generally allow for a short period of time for contributions to be processed and 
added to a pension policy. Often, at busy times such as the end of the tax year, firms will 
provide cut-off points, many days before the end of the tax year, to guarantee payments to 
be processed in time. So I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to have not processed 
Mr As contribution that was received after the close of business on the last weekday before 
the end of the tax year.
I understand Mr As disappointment that he didnt receive answers to his query in the lead up 
to him making his contribution. I dont know whether L&Gs phone lines were closed, or 
extremely busy. On balance I think it more likely to be the latter  as I have said earlier, this 
was a very busy time for all pension providers, made worse by the lockdown restrictions in 
place. I dont find it unreasonable that there might have been some delays to calls being 
answered, or in email responses being sent, at that time.
Ultimately Mr A chose to delay making his pension contribution, and rechecking the payment 
information, until the last days of the tax year. And whilst there was nothing inherently wrong 
in doing so, it did place him at greater risk of something going wrong. I dont think that 
anything L&G did (or didnt do) was unreasonable in the circumstances at that time.
I have considered what Mr A has said about another pension provider accepting his 
contribution that was made on Sunday 5 April. Again that is a matter of commercial 
judgement for that provider. The choices the other provider made do not mean that L&G 
acted unreasonably in the approach it took  the two providers have simply decided to offer 
different servicing arrangements.
So I dont think L&G has acted unreasonably here, either in its failure to respond to Mr As 
telephone calls and email, or in not processing his pension contribution until the next working 
day. As I said earlier, L&G offered Mr A £30 for its failure to respond to his email, but 
I understand that he hasnt cashed L&Gs cheque. It would be for Mr A to contact L&G 
directly if he now wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman