DRN-3059507
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined a claim against her furniture 
protection plan. 
Mrs F wants the claim to be met. 
What happened
Mrs F purchased dining room furniture along with a protection plan to cover it in 2015. Both 
the furniture and protection plan were sold by the retailer  and Mrs F said she was told 
everything would be covered under the protection plan when she purchased it. 
Mrs F raised a claim in 2020. She said someone sat on the chair and when they got up, the 
chair made a noise and it came apart. 
SOL considered the claim but declined it. They said the damage Mrs F reported was 
structural damage and pointed her back to the retailer. They referred to the terms and said 
no cover is in place for structural damage. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with this. She argued the policy says structural damage was included up 
to five years from the date of delivery, but SOL said this wasnt the case. So, she raised a 
complaint about the claim decision and said the policy was mis-sold. 
SOL maintained their position on the claim and said they werent responsible for selling the 
policy. As Mrs F remained unhappy, she approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
consider Mrs Fs mis-sale complaint against SOL as they werent responsible for selling the 
policy. And she felt they declined the claim fairly by referring to the terms. 
Mrs F didnt agree. She said shed reported the claim as someone had sat on the chair and 
caused accidental damage. And she didnt specify that structural damage had occurred. She 
also maintained that SOL should be responsible for the mis-sale of the policy. 
Mrs F asked for an ombudsman to decide the case, so its been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, this complaint has two key aspects. Namely, whether the policy was mis-sold, 
and whether SOL acted fairly when declining the claim. 
I appreciate why Mrs F thinks the policy was mis-sold. For example, she doesnt think the 
terms are clear as she says structural damage is covered under the policy. She says she 
was also told by the retailer that she would be covered for everything when she took it out. I 
also note Mrs F told us the retailer accepted the claim after she raised a complaint, though 
they later withdrew this after finding the chair was no longer available. 
I must explain I am unable to consider Mrs Fs complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. 
This is because, based on what Ive seen, SOL didnt sell the policy and are therefore not 
the responsible party for this aspect of her complaint. 
To be clear, my decision doesnt conclude Mrs Fs complaint about the sale of the policy has 
no merit. Rather, Im unable to consider this against SOL as they were not responsible for 
the sale, or what Mrs F was told at the time she took it out.
Turning to the claim decision, Ill start by referring to the policy terms which say: 
Important  the intention of the cover 
The intention of this Plan is to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental 
staining and/or accidental damage and/or structural damage (depending on cover 
selected). The meaning of the terms is explained below 
The document Ive referred to above also provides details on the length of cover and 
included in that, it explains that structural faults are covered from five years from the date of 
delivery. So, I do accept why this has caused some confusion here. 
Having said that, further down the document, it sets out what Mrs F was covered for. This 
confirms she was covered for accidental staining and accidental damage. Under heading 
Your Coverage Includes, it doesnt state Mrs F is covered for structural damage. Therefore, 
I dont think SOL acted unfairly by declining the claim for structural damage as there was no 
policy coverage in this respect. 
Mrs F said she reported that someone had sat on the chair and caused accidental damage 
to occur. So, Ive also gone onto consider this. 
Our investigator relied on the call notes taken by SOL following the call that took place 
where Mrs F reported the claim. For further clarity, I have listened to the call, and I accept 
Mrs F describes what happened which caused the claim, and SOL categorised this as 
structural damage. 
Mrs F argued the clam should have been considered as accidental damage. But I dont think 
this makes a material difference to the outcome of the claim. Ill now refer to the accidental 
damage section of the policy which says: 
Accidental Damage  in this Plan this means sudden and unintentional damage 
resulting in rips, punctures, scuffs, burns or scratches to the external surface of the 
item. 
With this in mind, I havent been persuaded Mrs Fs claim should succeed under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. I say this because I dont think the claim Mrs F 
made meets the definition of the term cited above for accidental damage. 
SOL categorised the claim as structural damage and I havent been persuaded this was an 
unreasonable step for them to take given the circumstances of the claim.  Therefore, I 
havent been persuaded here that SOL acted unfairly when declining the claim. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs F. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve her claim-related dispute with SOL  can do for her. My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman