DRN-1801327
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Unum Ltd has not fairly settled his claim on his employers group critical 
illness policy.
What happened
Mr R joined his employers critical illness cover scheme in 2014. 
Unfortunately, Mr R was diagnosed with prostate cancer in June 2019. He submitted a claim 
for critical illness benefit of £151,500 to Unum in June 2019. Unum contacted Mr Rs medical 
records, which said his cancer had a Gleeson score of 6 and a TNM classification of 
T2bN0M0.
Unum declined Mr Rs claim, saying he didnt meet the following policy definition of cancer. 
The policy excludes all tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a 
Gleeson score of 7 or above, or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification 
T2BN0M0.
Mr R provided further information from the consultant treating his cancer on 27 August 2019, 
which said his cancers TNM classification was T2B N0. And on 17 September 2019, the 
consultant said:
He has a new diagnosis of prostate cancer. His MRI showed PIRAD-3 changes and was 
reported as T2 N0 on the TNM staging. He had a template biopsy of his prostate which has 
shown bi-lateral Gleason 3+3 adenocarcinoma prostate which gives him a final staging of 
T2c N0 adenocarcinoma prostate on the TNM classification.
In its letter of 26 September 2019, Unum said it still wouldnt pay Mr Rs claim, saying his 
consultant had not provided adequate justification as to why Mr Rs cancer should be 
considered to have a higher TNM classification. Unum wrote to Mr Rs consultant, asking for 
a copy of the MRI report which informed Mr Rs initial TRM classification, a copy of the 
histology report on the prostate biopsies and further explanation about why the consultant 
thought the TNM classification had changed. The consultant responded on 27 September 
2019, clarifying the results of the MRI scan showed a TNM staging of T2b N0. He concluded 
In my opinion combining the MRI score of T2 N0 and the fact that the biopsies show 
bilateral disease, I would call this a T2C N0 according to the current information we have. 
Mr R complained about Unums decision to decline his claim, saying it was unreasonable as 
his consultant, who is an expert in urology cancer, has confirmed his cancer staging meets 
the policys definition of cancer. But Unum was still trying to obtain further medical evidence 
eight weeks later, so Mr R referred his complaint to our service to review in November 2019.
One of our investigators thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He noted Unum had the 
biopsy report which said the cancer was found in both sides of the prostate. Our investigator 
felt the opinion of Mr Rs consultant urologist persuasive, and recommended Unum pay Mr Rs claim from 27 September 2019, when Mr Rs consultant confirmed the TNM staging and 
the reasons given for it. The investigator said Unum should add interest at 8% simple from 
this date until the claim was paid, along with £250 compensation to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused by Unums failure to reach a reasonable claim decision.
Unum initially disagreed with our investigators view, saying it wanted the results of the 
biopsies after Mr R received treatment, which it requested from Mr Rs consultant on 19 
September 2019. But Mr R explained hed had no treatment, which he felt showed Unum 
didnt have a grip of his claim.
Eventually, Unum agreed to pay Mr Rs claim  but not the interest or compensation 
recommended by our investigator. Unum said it only agreed to pay the claim after it received 
the comments from the Urology departments multi-disciplinary team on 11 June 2019, which 
it received recently. But our investigator said this information wasnt necessary unless Unum 
had some reason to doubt the treating consultants opinion, given in September 2019, so our 
investigator didnt think Unums decision to request further information was reasonable. As 
Unum disagreed with our investigators view, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive upheld this complaint for the same reasons already explained by our 
investigator.
Mr Rs consultant explained his TNM staging in September 2019, and I think the explanation 
given for the change in TNM staging was reasonable and supported by the evidence already 
provided to Unum. At this point, I think Mr R had showed he met the policys definition of 
cancer. I dont agree it was reasonable for Unum to continue to decline Mr Rs claim 
because it said it hadnt received comments made several months earlier by the multi-
disciplinary team. I cant agree it was reasonable to expect the multi-disciplinary teams 
comments, which pre-dated the consultants opinion, to have revealed new information that 
would show Mr R no longer met the policys definition of cancer. Unum has already agreed 
to pay Mr R's claim. I agree with our investigator that Unum should also pay Mr R 8% simple 
interest from 27 September 2019 until the claim was paid. 
Mr R complains that Unum have handled his claim badly  and I agree. Unum has requested 
further information from Mr Rs consultant and GP on several occasions, none of which was 
new information or changed the outcome it reached. I think Unum has caused several 
unreasonable and avoidable delays in its consideration of Mr Rs claim, at a time when he 
was already under considerable stress because of his cancer diagnosis. I think £250 fairly 
acknowledges the trouble and upset caused to Mr R by Unums failure to pay his claim in a 
reasonable timeframe.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Unum Ltd to put things 
right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman