DRN-2324818
The complaint
Mr P complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) wouldnt replace a faulty 
washing machine under his protection policy. Hes also unhappy how his complaint was 
dealt with.
What happened
Mr P said he got in touch with D&G about a broken washing machine. He was offered an 
appointment about a week later but it was too long a wait. So D&G gave him direct contact 
details for two firms and Mr P said he arranged an appointment for the following day.
 
Mr P said the engineer told him the washing machine was beyond repair. So hed been 
trying to get in touch with D&G to sort things out. Mr P said hed wasted a lot of time on 
telephone calls which caused a great deal of unnecessary stress at a difficult time. Hed 
explained to D&G his mother had just passed away, but he doesnt feel D&G was 
supportive. So hed like compensation for his trouble and upset.
D&G said Mr P had reported the fault on 21 June and the engineer had attended five days 
later. But Mr P said another engineer had already told him the machine was being written off. 
Mr P had been in touch on 30 June asking if D&G had received a write-off report and he 
contacted it again on 6 July.
D&G said its engineer had been unable to assess the problem. Itd asked Mr P to evidence 
that a write-off had been agreed but hed been unable to do so. And it couldnt offer a 
replacement without evidence the washing machine had been written off. So it felt itd acted 
fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with D&Gs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He sympathised with the difficult circumstances Mr P had been 
dealing with. But he felt D&G had dealt with the complaint fairly. 
There was no record of the engineer saying the washing machine was beyond economic 
repair. And parts had been ordered to resolve the problem. So he felt it was more likely the 
machine was repairable and there was nothing to indicate any engineer had said the 
machine needed replacing. 
He felt D&G had acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when it wouldnt agree to 
replace the machine without assessing it properly. And Mr P said hed now thrown it away so 
that wasnt possible. So he couldnt ask D&G to do anything more. Our investigator also 
explained our service couldnt look into how D&G had dealt with Mr Ps complaint as 
complaint-handling wasnt a regulated activity.
Mr P didnt agree. He felt thered been some inconsistencies. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the extremely difficult period Mr P has been through. He was caring for 
his mother and she sadly passed away while this matter was being dealt with.
As our investigator has explained, we arent able to consider every aspect of a complaint 
thats brought to us. Our service is governed by a set of rules called the DISP rules which 
can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Complaint-handling isnt 
considered a regulated activity and isnt ancillary to a regulated activity. So I cant look at 
how D&G dealt with Mr Ps complaint. But I can look into whether it was right to decline his 
claim under the protection policy.
Ive looked at everything Mr P and D&G have said. And Ive listened to a number of calls 
between the two parties. Mr P took out a protection policy with D&G that offered unlimited 
call outs, repairs by expert engineers and a replacement if the item couldnt be fixed. The 
plan was set up online in May 2020 by Mr P and he called D&G to ask about the 30-day 
waiting period. D&G explained he wouldnt be able to make a claim under this type of policy 
for the first 30 days. Mr P replied he was just checking what the waiting period meant and it 
wasnt a breakdown he was calling about.
On Sunday 21 June Mr P reported a fault to D&G. The washing machine was making a 
knocking sound and hed stopped using it. D&G said the earliest appointment it could offer 
was on Friday 26 June. But Mr P explained his mother was very unwell and he needed an 
earlier appointment if possible. 
I can see an appointment was booked by D&G for 26 June. But Mr P was also given the 
direct contact details of two firms who might be able to respond sooner. D&G also ordered 
some replacement parts ahead of the 26 June appointment in case they were needed. On 
24 June Mr P contacted D&G. He said an engineer had already attended on Monday and 
told Mr P the washing machine was unrepairable. D&G said it hadnt yet received the 
engineers report, so it had to keep Fridays appointment open. 
As arranged an engineer attended Mr Ps property on 26 June but Mr P wouldnt let him in. 
He said the machine had already been written off. As the engineer wasnt allowed to inspect 
the washing machine he had no report to send D&G. So an invoice was settled for the visit 
and the job was marked as complete. 
During a follow-up call on 30 June Mr P asked D&G what was happening. He said itd been 
a week since the engineer had told him the machine needed replacing. But D&G said it still 
hadnt received an engineers report. And it wouldnt be able to arrange an exchange without 
first inspecting the washing machine. 
I can appreciate how stressful this has been for Mr P. He says he was told the washing 
machine couldnt be repaired. But D&G says it has no record of the engineers assessment.  
It couldnt make a decision without a report. And Mr P had now disposed of the machine so it 
wasnt able to inspect it further.
Ive looked carefully at everything thats been said. Where there are conflicting views I have 
to decide on the balance of probabilities what is most likely to have happened. And I realise 
it may be difficult to work out exactly what has happened due to the difficult circumstances 
Mr P was dealing with. 
I can see Mr P spoke to D&G on a Sunday and says he was able to get one of its agents to 
look at the washing machine the following day. But D&G doesnt have any record of the visit or inspection outcome. During a call in August Mr P said the engineer left within 30 seconds 
of entering the property and would arrange for a replacement after determining it was an 
electrical fault.
D&G says it normally receives its engineer reports within a few days. But even allowing for 
delays caused by the pandemic D&G still hadnt received a report many weeks later. It 
hadnt been able to inspect the machine itself, despite ordering replacement parts in 
anticipation of a repair visit. And Mr P hasnt been able to provide anything to show hed 
been told the washing machine would be written off. 
I realise Mr P will be disappointed by this outcome. But based on what Ive seen I think D&G 
has acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the protection policy.  It would need to 
inspect an appliance before determining whether a repair or replacement was appropriate 
under the policy. And it hasnt been able to do so. So I wont be upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman