DRN-2909355
The complaint
 This complaints about a consolidation re-mortgage Mr R and Mrs R took out in 2005 on 
advice given by a representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). Mr 
R and Mrs R, who have third-party representation, believe it was mis-sold.
 
What happened
  By way of a provisional decision earlier this month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr R and 
Mrs R being identified. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current situation in my own words and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint; he wasnt persuaded the 
mortgage overall had been unsuitable for Mr R and Mrs Rs circumstances as recorded at 
the time. 
He did have some concerns about some ancillary aspects of the sale and made the following 
recommendations to resolve the complaint:
L&G should honour an already-made offer to refund, with interest, a £50 commission 
payment received from the solicitors that did the legal work for the re-mortgage and pay 
£100 further compensation; and
L&Gs proposal to pay redress for having wrongly included a debt from a lender Ill call C 
in the consolidation, subject to receiving evidence it had been repaid, was fair.
The case has come to me for review, because Mr R and Mrs Rs representative has said it 
disagrees with the investigators findings; it believes its unfair to expect Mr R and Mrs R to 
produce evidence of having repaid the loan with C in 2005.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
Consolidation of unsecured consumer debt
Advising people to re-mortgage to consolidate existing debt isnt inherently unsuitable. It all 
depends on the grounds given for the argument that the advice was unsuitable, and the 
individuals circumstances and objectives at the time the advice was given. Hindsight cant 
be a factor here.
The main argument against consolidating credit card and loan debts into a mortgage are that 
the debts becomes secured, and are repaid over a longer period. So, even if the mortgage is 
on a lower rate, its likely the overall interest cost will be higher in the long term. The main 
argument in favour of consolidation is that it frees up cashflow in the consumers monthly 
budget. The balancing factor tends to be the extent to which there is a need for improved 
cashflow, and so it proves here.
Im satisfied that L&Gs advisor drew Mr R and Mrs Rs attention to the downsides of 
consolidation, which I detailed a moment ago, allowing them to make an informed decision 
that, for them, at that time, the benefits generally outweighed the disadvantages. 
But there should be a measure of selectivity in that assessment. What I mean by that is just 
because consolidation was generally beneficial to Mr R and Mrs R, it doesnt follow that 
every existing debt should have been included. When it addressed the complaint, L&G 
accepted that one of Mr R and Mrs Rs debts  the one owed to C  should not have been 
included but left to run as it was. Im inclined to agree, given the time left to run on the loan, 
and the interest rate being charged on it.
Im satisfied L&G has made an offer to remedy that, but Ive thought very hard about the 
representatives point that its unfair to make the offer conditional upon Mr R and Mrs R 
having retained proof of repaying the debt from 2005. I have some sympathy with that 
argument. Either the inclusion of the loan with C in the consolidation was appropriate or it 
wasnt. 
Insofar as L&G accepts that the loan with C should not have been consolidated, I think its 
asking rather too much of Mr R and Mrs R, sixteen years later, to say it will pay redress only 
if they can prove the loan was repaid. L&G should make that offer unconditional.
The legal administration fee
This is a subject weve looked at before. In 2014, a fellow ombudsman concluded that the 
fee was legitimate, in that it covered the costs of the brokers liaison with the conveyancing 
solicitor. In 2020, another ombudsman colleague reviewing a separate case concluded that 
whilst the fee was legitimate, he wasnt satisfied from the available evidence that it been 
properly disclosed to the consumers.
Our final decisions dont form binding precedents; but we do aim to be consistent when 
deciding different cases on similar fact, so its sensible and prudent that I consider them in 
the context of the case Im deciding here. Those two decisions dont contradict each other; they determine different things. One 
decided that the legal administration fee was legitimate, and Ive reached the same 
conclusion here. The other decided that the consumers hadnt been properly informed about 
the legal administration fee, and Ive reached a different conclusion here. Thats because I 
have sight of a Solicitors Form of Authorisation signed by Mr R and Mrs R on 15 February 
2005 putting them on notice of, and obtaining their agreement to, the fee being incurred. 
Other matters
In its main complaint letter on Mr R and Mrs Rs behalf, their representative describes L&G 
as a commercial business who werent altruistic. Im not sure that comes as news to 
anyone, but from the associated comments, its clear that the inference Im being invited to 
draw is that this meant L&Gs objectives didnt coincide with Mr R and Mrs Rs, and goes 
towards why the representative believes the mortgage was mis-sold. 
But L&G didnt need to share Mr R and Mrs Rs objectives; it simply had a duty to advise 
them on the best way of achieving them. In any event, Im not sure how helpful those 
descriptions are to Mr R and Mrs Rs case, as it could equally be argued this applied to her 
representative, given it too is a non-altruistic, commercial business.
I gave the parties until 22 June 2021 to respond. Weve not heard from Mr R and Mrs Rs 
representative; L&G has replied broadly agreeing with my provisional findings, but asking 
why I was proposing to award more compensation than the £100 we typically award for 
cases where the solicitors commission payment needed to be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill explain 
why. 
Im aware that the service generally awards £100 compensation in cases where the 
solicitors commission payment needed refunding. But in this case, I have also found that 
L&G had imposed an unfair condition on settling the consolidation aspect of the complaint. 
The additional £100 of my award reflects that. 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to:using the information about the outstanding balance and term collected at the point of 
sale, calculate the extra interest Mr R and Mrs R paid on the mortgage as a result of 
including the loan with C in the consolidation, deduct the interest they would have paid 
on the loan if it had run to term, and pay Mr R and Mrs R the difference;
calculate and pay Mr R and Mrs R interest at 8% simple per annum* on the differential 
interest as set out above;
in the event Mr R and Mrs R want to pay the redress off their current mortgage balance, 
L&G should reimburse them any early repayment charge imposed by their lender, if 
relevant;
refund £50 solicitors commission payment, plus mortgage interest charged on it up to 
the eventual settlement date; and
pay Mr R and Mrs R £200 compensation.
*If Legal & General Partnership Services Limited deducts basic rate income tax from the 
interest award, it should then provide Mr R and Mrs R with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman