DRN-3599811
The complaint
Ms H complains that Bank of Scotland plc has recorded adverse information on her credit file 
following missed direct debit payments.
What happened
Ms H says a number of her direct debits were returned due to insufficient money in her 
account in May 2021 by Bank of Scotland (BoS). She says there was an agreed overdraft 
facility on the account that she did not remove. Ms H says the facility must have been 
removed by BoS and says the adverse information should be removed from her credit file. 
She says she was given misleading information by BoS that it would remove the information.
BoS says the overdraft facility was removed in 2017 but says it cant provide the event log 
due to the passage of time. It says it was Ms Hs responsibility to manage her account and it 
told her that the direct debits had failed which would have allowed time to avoid the adverse 
information being registered. BoS accepts it gave Ms H misleading information and has 
apologised as well as paying £100 compensation.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it likely Ms H removed the overdraft facility and that she ought to have noticed it was 
no longer recorded on her account statements. The investigator thought the compensation 
appropriate for the incorrect information. 
Ms H didnt accept that view and says the compensation isnt important but maintains she 
didnt know the overdraft had been removed. She says she didnt receive notice of the failed 
direct debits and says BoS should have made sure she was aware of what had happened.
BoS says Ms H didnt register for text messages to be sent to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate both sides to this complaint say that the other must have removed the overdraft 
facility. So, I have to consider on balance which party I think is more likely to have made the 
decision to remove it. I have looked at BoSs records and can see Ms H was sent a letter 
about overdraft charges in the months before the overdraft was removed. I think it likely that 
if BoS had removed the facility that it would have had some form of record or a computer 
record of its staff making the change. So, I think on balance that it more likely that Ms H 
removed the facility and think it likely that having looked at her account statements, that 
there had been no use of it. I also think the overdraft facility was clearly displayed in account 
statements before the removal and think it ought to have been reasonably clear that from 
2017 the account statements no longer had it recorded. I would have expected Ms H to have 
raised that issue with BoS and think the online statements were available for her to view 
when she used online banking.
Im satisfied that in any event this was Ms Hs account and it was her responsibility to 
manage her account. It follows that I think it was up to Ms H to make sure there was 
sufficient money in her account so that the direct debits were paid. I appreciate Ms H says 
that BoS ought to have made sure that she was aware that the direct debits had failed. I 
have made clear that I disagree and think it was up to Ms H to manage the account. And I 
cant fairly hold BoS responsible for Ms H not being aware that the direct debits had failed in 
circumstances where that information was available to her.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was up to Ms H to manage her account and that it ought to have 
been reasonably clear from 2017 the overdraft facility had been removed. It follows that I 
cant fairly order BoS to remove any information from Ms Hs credit file which I find was 
correctly recorded. Im also satisfied that BoS has paid a fair and reasonable compensation 
amount in respect of the incorrect information. I do not intend to comment further on that as 
Ms H has made clear that is not her main complaint point here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman