DRN-2109599
The complaint
Mr T complains that Freemans Plc trading as Bonprix and Swimwear365, wrongly sold his 
accounts to a third party.
Mr T has another complaint about linked accounts. This is being considered separately by 
our service as it relates to a separate business.
What happened
Mr T had catalogue accounts with Freemans. In March 2019, Mr T told Freemans he was 
experiencing financial difficulties so was unable to meet the minimum repayments due on 
the accounts. Following a review of his income and expenses, Freemans agreed to set up a 
reduced repayment plan so that Mr T could pay less the minimum repayment on each 
account. He began making monthly repayments of £5 against each account.
In March 2020 Mr T told Freemans that his situation hadnt changed and that he wanted to 
re-set the arrangement. Freemans did agree to this after Mr T provided updated information 
about his financial situation. Shortly after this, Mr Ts accounts were sold to another 
business, who Ill refer to as L. 
Mr T complained. He said that Freemans told him that his accounts would not be sold unless 
he missed the agreed repayments, which he hadnt done. 
Freemans didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said the sale of his accounts didnt affect Mr Ts 
reduced repayment plan and that, to limit any inconvenience, itd arranged for his direct 
debits to be changed to the L. Freemans said the sale was not a debt sale, instead Mr Ts 
accounts were sold to a company specialising in supporting customers who were subject to 
a repayment plan. Freemans said that as such, no default notice would be registered against 
Mr Ts credit file and the agreed repayment plan would remain in place with L.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Freemans had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement when it sold 
Mr Ts accounts to a third party. He said Freemans couldve explained this better during calls 
with Mr T, but he didnt think this would have changed what happened.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman. He said Freemans actions amounted to a breach of contract and as a result, 
he didnt consider he was liable to repay the amounts owing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I 
understand that Mr T has raised a number of points during his contact with this service. 
Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered everything hes said but 
limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. I'll also mention 
that where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
The starting point for this complaint is the terms and conditions of Mr Ts accounts. Amongst 
other things, these say:
We may transfer or assign to any other party any or all of our rights and duties under this 
Agreement at any time (including, without limitation, our duty to provide credit to you). Your 
rights under this Agreement and your legal rights will not be affected. 
So Freemans were entitled to sell Mr Ts accounts at any point, for any reason, to a third 
party. And I cant fairly say Freemans have done anything wrong by selling Mr Ts account 
when it did. But there still remains the issue of what Mr T was told about the potential for his 
accounts to be sold. To this end Ive listened to a number of calls between Mr T and 
Freemans agents. 
During these calls its clear that Mr T was unhappy about Freemans asking for more 
information about his financial situation. He considered the only reason this was being asked 
for was because Freemans wanted to sell his accounts to debt collectors. And that the 
payment review was simply an attempt by Freemans to extort more money from him and 
that when this didnt happen, it illegally sold his accounts.
As Ive said, I dont think Freemans did anything wrong when it sold Mr Ts accounts. 
Further, as set out in Mr Ts agreements, its at the discretion of Freemans whether to allow 
a customer to enter into a reduced repayment plan. I can hear Mr T was told on several 
occasions why the information was needed  this was part of Freemans meeting its 
regulatory obligations, ensuring the reduced repayment plan was still appropriate for Mr Ts 
circumstances. So I think its fair and reasonable that Mr T was asked to provide certain 
information before Freemans agreed to the reduced repayment plan continuing.
That said, I can hear that during a call Mr T was told his accounts would not be sold. But this 
was in the context of Mr T saying Freemans only wanted to carry out a finance review so it 
could sell his accounts to debt collectors. As Ive said, this wasnt the reason which was 
explained to Mr T. So I think the agent answered Mr T appropriately in the context of what 
was being said at the time. 
I do, however, think the agent couldve explained to Mr T that there were other situations that 
could lead to the sale of his account. But even if Mr T had been told this, I think its more 
likely than not, that he would still have been upset as he clearly didnt want his accounts 
sold. 
So whilst I appreciate Mr T was upset by the sale of his accounts, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont think Freemans did anything wrong by doing this.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Yolande McleodOmbudsman