DRN-2130706
The complaint
Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked her account without telling her. 
Ms R also complains that it took too long for Nationwide to remove the account block. 
What happened
Ms R holds an account with Nationwide. New regulations came into effect which meant the 
identification Nationwide held for Ms R wasnt correct. Nationwide says it blocked all 
accounts affected by the new regulations and contacted the customers. 
In September 2019 Nationwide wrote to Ms R about the account block and listed the 
different types of identification she could take to a branch to remove it. 
Ms R says she visited Nationwide branches on several occasions, taking identification with 
her each time. Ms R says she took a provisional drivers licence, a doctors letter, her 
student card and a bank statements with the associated card. 
In March 2020, after a branch visit, Nationwide agreed to remove the account block. 
Nationwide didnt agree it had made an error when dealing with Ms R and she referred her 
concerns to this service. 
The complaint was passed to an investigator. They upheld Ms Rs complaint and Nationwide 
agreed to pay her £150 in recognition of the branch visits and confusing information 
provided. Ms R didnt accept and said she had incurred costs as a result of Nationwides 
actions. Our investigator asked Ms R to provide more information and evidence of the costs 
she incurred but no further information has been provided. As Ms R didnt agree with the 
investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Rs frustration at her account being blocked on the basis that 
Nationwide didnt hold the right identification for her. And its clear the situation went on for 
some time, causing further inconvenience. Ms R says she visited Nationwide to try and 
remove the blocks several times but was unsuccessful, despite having documents on file. 
But, I need to be fair to both sides and its clear that, once the new regulations came into 
force, Nationwide had to obtain new identification from Ms R. 
Ms R has explained she visited various branches on several occasions and has listed the 
identification she had. Ive looked at Nationwides list of acceptable identification and its 
clear the process of providing the right documents is reasonably complicated. 
I do appreciate that Ms R feels the documents she had with her each time were compliant 
with Nationwides request. But if Ms R had taken the right identification with her, I think its 
more likely than not that Nationwide would have agreed to remove the account block. I can 
see no reason why Nationwide would refuse to remove the account block other than on the 
basis that the correct identification hadnt been provided. 
That being said, its clear the situation went on for several months and I agree with the 
investigator that Ms R wasnt given a clear explanation of what she needed to do. I agree 
that Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. 
Nationwide has agreed to pay Ms R £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by 
its actions. Ms R asked the investigator to consider other costs she incurred. The 
investigator asked for more information or evidence about these costs but Ms R hasnt 
forwarded anything else to us. As I have no evidence of additional costs incurred by Ms R 
Im not going to make any further award. 
I agree that it was inconvenient for Ms R to visit the branch on several occasions and can 
see there were delays removing the account block. Nationwide has agreed to pay £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive noted everything Ms R and her representative 
have told us about the impact of Nationwides actions. Having done so, Im satisfied £150 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience cause to Ms R, so Im not telling Nationwide to 
increase the settlement further.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms 
R £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman