DRN-4102097
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund the money he lost as a 
result of a third-party scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary in September 2022, Mr H received a call from someone 
who said they worked for his bank but, ultimately, turned out to be a scammer. The scammer 
persuaded Mr H that his account was under attack, and he needed to move his money to a 
safe place. They coached Mr H through the process to move money into a safe account. Mr 
H moved a total of £3,500 over three transactions (£1,700, £900 and £900). Mr H started to 
become suspicious and called the real Starling Bank which led to the scam being uncovered.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He felt that the warnings Starling gave werent 
effective. He also thought Mr H had a reasonable basis for belief.
Starling didnt agree  whilst it accepted the arguments for the customers reasonable basis 
for belief. it said it didnt feel it should be held 100% liable in this case. It felt the warnings 
were specific to the case and should have alarmed Mr H to disconnect the call. It also said 
that as the consumer gave the wrong information, it suppressed Starlings opportunity to 
probe and question the customer further.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
The CRM Code
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Mr H in line with the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has signed up to and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect Mr H from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr H was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
protecting his savings, but this wasnt the case. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
I am also mindful that when Mr H made these payments, Starling should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before it processed a payment, or in some cases declined to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Did Mr H ignore an effective warning?
Starling did provide a warning for friends or family which is what Mr H selected at the time 
the payment was processed. Starling says Mr H providing the wrong information suppressed 
Starlings opportunity to probe and question the customer further. 
I note Starling says despite being misled as to the payment purpose  it still thinks the 
warnings it gave were effective. But regardless of why this particular warning was provided, I 
don't think it was effective and so I dont think Starling can apply this exclusion under the 
CRM Code. Ill explain why.
I dont think this warning is effective  especially in the context of the circumstances of a safe 
account scam. Visually its not an impactful warning. Theres a lot of text within the warning, 
which during a safe account scam could be difficult to follow. The warning is also not 
particularly direct, personal or clear enough which is essential in a safe account scam, given 
the level of coaching thats often involved and the fact the consumer thinks they are 
speaking to the bank. 
More often than not, the scammer will be pretending to be the customers bank, so it lacks 
impact in saying a genuine organisation  it ought to be more specific on this point. 
The explanation of spoofing is also not clear enough. I dont think it really gets across the 
point, through the use of the term a different number, that scammers can make phone 
numbers look like the genuine banks phone number or a very similar one which is a 
common safe account scam feature. The warning also puts the onus back on the consumer to identify whether its a scam by 
saying Are you speaking with who you think you are? when in fact, it should be more direct 
in confirming that such scenarios are highly likely to be, or will be a scam, so its not 
impactful.
So, I dont think Mr H ignored an effective warning. 
Did Mr H have a reasonable basis for belief?
 
Starling accepted the investigators conclusions that Mr H had a reasonable basis for belief. 
So, I wont go in detail on this  but for completeness I agree and broadly for the same 
reasons the investigator outlined. On balance, I believe that it was difficult for Mr H to think 
clearly in the moment and once in the call he had little opportunity to make further enquiries. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think his response was unreasonable.
All of this means I dont think any of the exclusions under the CRM Code apply and so I find 
that Starling should fully refunded Mr H for his losses.
Should Starling have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr H?
As well as the CRM Code, a bank still has wider obligations and a duty to protect its 
customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im not going to go into detail here because it doesnt change the outcome Ive reached 
above. The only relevance of this point is in respect of the date from when interest should be 
paid on any refunds.
The payments were relatively small (although I appreciate it is a lot of money to Mr H) and 
did not look unusual or suspicious based on the account activity. Banks cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments 
that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. So I 
dont think Starling needed to do anymore in this case.
Recovery
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But Starling was able 
to recover £50.29 which has been returned to Mr H - so that should be taken into account 
below.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr H, Starling Bank Limited should refund all the transactions, 
(£3,500) less the funds already recovered (£50.29). 
To compensate Mr H for being deprived of the money he lost, Starling should add simple 
interest1 at the rate of 8% per annum to the above from the date his claim was declined to 
the date of settlement.
1 If Starling is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Starling Bank Limited to put 
things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman