DRN-4296125
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to notify her that a joint account she had 
had with her former partner remained open after 2017, and that she is now being pursued for 
an overdraft debt on the account.
What happened
Ms B advised that in August 2017 at a meeting at a branch of Barclays, she and her 
ex-partner reached an agreement that the latter would be responsible for the debt on the 
joint account. She asked for her name to be removed from the account but this was refused 
as the account still had an overdraft on it. She says she didn't realise that her ex-partner was 
still using the account and incurring more debt on it. In 2019 the account was closed and the 
debt referred to recovery agents. Ms B says she knew nothing about this until she received a 
letter from those agents in August 2022, saying the debt had risen to over £2,900, an 
increase of over £900 since 2017.
Ms B points out that the reason for the separation in 2017 was because of her ex-partners 
emotional and financial abuse. She says that this was all pointed out to Barclays in 2017. 
She feels that Barclays should have frozen the account or at least required joint signatures 
before allowing any further transactions. As part of that abuse she says that her ex-partner 
removed letters that were sent to her about the overdraft. She also feels that as the debt is 
her ex-partner's responsibility, she shouldn't be made liable for it.
Barclays received Ms B's complaint through the debt recovery agents, saying that she 
believed that her name had been taken off the account in 2017. It explained that it had been 
unable to do this as the account was overdrawn. It said that it had sent a number of letters 
and regular statements to the address it had on record for Ms B
After referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Barclays explained that it had no record 
of a meeting in August 2017 when the ex-partner agreed to be responsible for the debt. 
Though it did have a note of a meeting in April 2017 when it was explained that the joint 
account could not be closed nor could Ms B's name be removed from it whilst it was 
overdrawn. It did say that as well as receiving regular statements, Ms B used the Barclays 
app regularly and the details of the joint account would have been evident on the app.
Our Investigator said in accordance with the terms and conditions of the joint account, both 
account holders are jointly and severally liable for any debt. She was unable to find any note 
of a meeting in August 2017 when Ms B said Barclays was told about the agreement 
between her and her ex-partner. She noted that this was an agreement between the parties 
which Barclays wasnt party to. It had explained why it could not remove her name from the 
account and as the parties appeared to be in agreement there was no reason why Barclays 
should have frozen the account. She also noted that Ms B was using the app during this time 
which would have shown full details of the joint account.  
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do sympathise with Ms B. It must have been distressing to her to find out that her 
ex-partner had continued to run up debts in their joint names. But, and I appreciate that Ms B 
will be disappointed, I will not be asking Barclays to take any further action.
Clearly if someone is suffering economic or financial abuse and the Bank is aware of that, 
there should be procedures it could put in place. However in Ms Bs 's case there aren't any 
notes of her vulnerability on Barclays case notes. Its notes of a meeting which took place in 
April 2017 indicate that the joint account could not be closed whilst it was still in overdraft. 
And as Ms B was aware of the account being overdrawn, I don't think that she could 
reasonably have expected at that time for the account to be closed. 
I appreciate that Ms B expected her ex-partner to pay off the overdraft. But Barclays wasn't 
party to any agreement she may have had with him, so there was still a joint and several 
liability for the debt on the account. This did mean that either or both parties could be 
pursued for that debt. I have seen that Barclays sent a number of letters to Ms B advising 
her of the overdraft and that the situation had become critical. The account was closed in 
July 2019 following a termination notice, also sent to Ms B.
I note Ms B's assertion that she did not receive any of the letters, because her ex-partner 
was able to remove them from the property before she saw them. Nevertheless, in light of 
the fact that Barclays wouldn't have been aware that this might happen and that it sent the 
letters to her at the address it had registered for her, I can't hold it responsible if the letters 
were not received.
I further note that Ms B had access to the Barclays banking app and was using it in 2019 
before the account was closed. As the app provided full details of any accounts in which she 
was a named party, I think she should have been aware of the joint account, that it was still 
being used and that it was still in overdraft.
As regards Ms B's assertion that Barclays should have frozen the account, our Investigator 
has pointed out the following in the terms and conditions of the account:
If we know theres a dispute between people named on a joint account, we may insist that 
you jointly consent to what you are asking us to do. If that happens, well also turn off 
Telephone Banking, Online Banking, and the Barclays app. Well also suspend your 
payment tools (e.g., cards). This is because these work with just one persons permission. 
Well ask each of you to come into a branch to let us know jointly what you want to do.
Here there was an apparent agreement between the parties, and no indication that Barclays 
was aware of any dispute. So I don't think that Barclays could have been expected, in the 
circumstances of this case, to take action to prevent any further transactions on the account 
after 2017.
I also don't think it was unfair in the circumstances of the case to pass the matter on to debt 
recovery agents. Whilst I note that Ms B appears to be being pursued for the debt, rather 
than as she thought she had agreed, her ex-partner, it is a matter for Barclays agents. 
I understand that any action regarding recovery of the account is currently on hold.  Ms B 
should contact them to agree a repayment plan or any further steps that could be taken. I am 
aware that she has been given details of organisations that may be able to help her in this 
respect.Finally, I note that Ms B says she was not aware of a savings account, which was also in 
joint names and which had £200 in it. This would also have been evident on the app but I do 
note that she has been able to get that account closed down and the money transferred to 
the debt recovery agents.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman