DRN-2281676
The complaint
Mrs E complains that she paid a deposit using her credit card issued by Santander UK Plc. 
She says she was told it was refundable, but it wasnt returned.
What happened
Mrs E and a friend had arranged to spend two nights in a serviced apartment in London in
June 2019. Her friend had made the booking through a website (which Ill call B) some time
earlier, and the booking confirmation indicates that the agreed price for a two-night stay was
£396. Mrs Es friend has also provided evidence  by way of a screenshot from her banking
app  that she paid the full amount by debit card. Her account appears to have been debited
the day after the stay  consistent with her having paid on departure.
Mrs E says however that she received a telephone call on her way to the apartment, seeking
a deposit of £200. She paid this using her Santander credit card. She says that the
apartment was left in good condition, but that she didnt receive her deposit back. She
contacted the payee  which Ill call L  and was told the money would be returned, but
she still didnt receive it.
Mrs E contacted Santander to see if it could help. It asked for supporting documents, but
says that Mrs E didnt provide what it needed to make a claim under the chargeback
scheme. Without the necessary supporting documents, it couldnt properly request a refund.
Mrs E referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She
accepted that Santander couldnt have made a valid chargeback request in the absence of
further documentation. She thought however that L, in keeping the payment, was in breach 
of contract and that Santander ought to refund the payment under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Santander didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review
the case.
Because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from the investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision and invited further comment from the parties. 
I noted in my provisional findings that there was little evidence about what had happened, 
other than the payment itself. Mrs E and her friend had made a booking through B and her 
friend had paid L in full with her debit card. No deposit had been taken, but Mrs Es payment 
had been taken before the main payment. 
I explained in my provisional decision that chargeback is a way of resolving certain card 
payment disputes between merchants and card holders. Its run by card schemes (in this 
case, Mastercard). I thought however that there wasnt really a payment dispute here; Mrs E 
accepts that she made the payment as part of the arrangement for renting the apartment. 
Mrs E hadnt been able to provide very much evidence about the apartment rental, but I 
observed too that the dispute here isnt really about the payment that Mrs E made  its 
about Ls failure to make a payment by way of the return of the deposit. So, even with more 
evidence about the arrangements between Mrs E and L, it was unlikely that a chargeback 
request would have been successful. 
I didnt, however, agree with the investigators conclusion that Mrs E had a claim against 
Santander under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Under section 75 an 
individual who has a claim for breach of contract against a merchant can, where that 
contract is financed by a credit card, bring a like claim against the card provider. That 
provision is subject to certain financial and other conditions. 
I wasnt persuaded that there was a breach of contract in this case. There was no 
suggestion that L hadnt, for example, provided the services  the use of the apartment  or 
that they were in any way unsatisfactory. 
There was also very little information about the circumstances in which the deposit was 
taken or the terms on which it would or wouldnt be returned. Although Mrs E said it was 
refundable, I thought there must have been circumstances in which it would be retained. Had 
that not been the case, there would have been no reason to take a deposit at all. I noted too 
that, even if L was required to refund a deposit, that was unlikely to amount to a breach of 
the contract financed by the card payment. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs E asked what further information or evidence 
she could provide to change my conclusions. Its not for this service to advise either party on 
how to present their case, since were independent and impartial. We have however sought 
explanations from L about the terms on which the payment was taken; unfortunately, those 
enquiries have been largely inconclusive. I have therefore reviewed the case on the basis of 
what evidence and information we do have.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that; however, I havent changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. In reality, this is, I think, a dispute between Mrs E and L about the return of a 
payment she made by way of deposit. It isnt a dispute about the original payment, and I 
dont believe theres sufficient evidence to support a chargeback request. 
Mrs E may have a claim against L for the return of the money. Even if she does, however, I 
dont believe that would be a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation that was 
financed by the credit card payment. And, as Ive explained, theres very little information or 
evidence about the circumstances in which the payment was made. 
For these reasons, I dont believe Santander has treated Mrs E unfairly by not pursuing a 
refund through the chargeback process or by declining to meet a claim under section 75. 
I should stress however that I make no comment on Mrs Es right to seek repayment directly 
from L.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman