DRN-3411275
The complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) misled him into taking a packaged 
bank account, called a Premier account.
Unlike with many packaged bank accounts, HSBC did not charge customers a monthly fee 
for the Premier account. Instead, it provided the account free of charge providing that 
customers earned over a certain threshold (typically around £75,000pa, although it may 
have varied from time-to-time) and held a particular amount (typically around £50,000, 
although it may have varied from time-to-time) in one of its savings accounts. It then 
provided several benefits, such as insurance for travel and what it described as a 
preferential terms on mortgages, in return. 
Mr P has told us that around 2018-19, he was interested in a mortgage and opened a 
Premier account, expecting to gain preferential terms if he went on to take a mortgage with 
HSBC. In summer 2020, he subsequently took a mortgage with HSBC, but has told us that it 
did not have preferential terms. Hes said that he lost out financially by having the Premier 
account as he could have received a higher rate of interest on his savings by investing them 
elsewhere. He wants HSBC to compensate him for this loss. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ps complaint. The adjudicator didnt 
think that HSBC had misled Mr P and didnt recommend that it should pay him any 
compensation. 
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into
everything that Mr P and HSBC have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
HSBC has not given us its precise definition of preferential terms. But, from the evidence 
Mr P has submitted,  he seems to have interpreted it to mean that over the lifetime of a 
mortgage he would pay less in total with a Premier account than he would for a similar 
mortgage without a Premier account. Similar in this context would mean the two mortgages 
were for similar amounts, had similar loan to value ratios and similar terms and conditions. I 
think that for this complaint, Mr Ps interpretation is reasonable and I have kept it in mind 
throughout this decision. 
There is quite a bit of common ground between Mr P and HSBC on the background facts to 
this complaint. In outline:
Mr P has said that the sole reason he took the Premier account was to obtain 
preferential terms on a mortgage. HSBC seems to have accepted this.
(Throughout our investigation into this case neither HSBC, nor Mr P, have made any 
significant reference to the other potential benefits of the Premier account. So, while 
Im satisfied that Mr P could have used these other benefits if he had wanted or 
needed them, I have not considered them any further). 
Both parties have agreed that the mortgage Mr P took did not provide preferential 
terms. 
So, the main point of dispute is that Mr P says HSBC told him that by having a Premier 
account he would get preferential terms for his mortgage, whereas HSBC says that it only 
said that such rates would be available on certain types of mortgage for some customers 
and that it never guaranteed them to Mr P. 
To support Mr Ps case, he has told us that he saw publicity material from HSBC about the 
Premier account which said that customers with the account could get preferential mortgage 
terms on selected products. He has also quoted information which he says HSBC sent to 
him which said:
 You can enjoy a wide range of preferential terms on mortgages, only available to 
customers like you". 
I havent seen HSBC use the exact phrases Mr P has quoted. And I dont know if they were 
in leaflets, in letters, online or in some other form of communication. But, HSBCs website 
currently says that customers with Premier accounts can Save money on (mortgages) with 
preferential terms, so I fully accept that it may well also have used the phrases Mr P has 
quoted. However, I do not consider they gave guarantees that Mr P would definitely get 
preferential terms on any mortgage. To me, they only meant that preferential terms would be 
available on some mortgages for some customers. 
HSBC has sent us some examples of the mortgages it provided to customers with and 
without Premier accounts during summer 2020. Im satisfied that preferential terms were 
available on some. These seem to have been for mortgages where the interest rates were 
fixed for five years. Mr P has told us that he didnt want a mortgage where the interest rate 
was fixed for that long. He took one where the rate was fixed for two years. Hes said that 
this didnt offer preferential terms. As I mentioned above, HSBC has accepted this, but it 
doesnt seem to me that HSBC misled Mr P in the way he has said. 
Mr P has further stated that he does not think HSBC offered any preferential rates to 
customers in his financial situation. Hes mentioned that he has worked out that it was a 
mathematical impossibility for people on his level of income and circumstances to obtain 
preferential terms from HSBCs offers. He considers that HSBCs claim that such terms 
would be available to customers like (him) was therefore unfair. 
I have not examined Mr Ps calculations in detail. But I have already found that preferential 
terms were available on some types of mortgage for some customers and that HSBC didnt 
guarantee them on all mortgages for all customers. So, irrespective of Mr Ps calculations, I 
dont think HSBC misled him. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint about HSBC
UK Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to pay him any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman