DRN-4009507
The complaint
In 2014 Mr K made an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS) investment 
within his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). £150,000 from the SIPP was invested in 
the Waterman Bridge Finance Income Fund (the fund). The funds investors were split 
between a partnership and a Unit Trust (UT). He invested through the UT, which catered for 
pension related investments. City & Merchant Limited (CML) operated the partnership and 
UT, and it managed the fund. Around late 2018 the fund was wound up. In July 2021 Mr K 
complained to CML and alleged the following:
CMLs breach of its fiduciary duties  failure to provide periodic statements, audited 
annual reports and fund records/documentation; failure to provide updates on the 
winding up of the fund; and failure to declare its appointed representatives loss of 
regulatory authority in April 2021. [issue 1]
CMLs gross negligence  arising from the breaches of its fiduciary duties, from its 
failure to ensure the security of his investment during the extended winding up period 
and from its failure to safeguard his interests in the investment during this period (by 
allowing another investors capital redemption in 2020 without general consent and 
without addressing the consequences for other investors like him). [issue 2]
CMLs fraudulent misrepresentation of the fund. [issue 3]
CML disputes the complaint and says this service does not have jurisdiction to address it, 
because Mr K is not an eligible complainant. 
What happened
The fund was a UCIS based on secured loan notes to participants in the UK property 
market. The loans were administered and issued through a third-party (Waterman 104, a 
subsidiary of Waterman Capital). Minimum investment was £25,000, minimum investment 
period was one year from the next quarter date after investment and, thereafter, investment 
capital could be redeemed on any redemption date (four such dates in a year) after giving 
six months notice. The fund was limited to [non-retail] professional and/or sophisticated 
and/or high net worth investors, and/or eligible counterparties.
During the investment, a Priority Investor Return (PIR) of 2.5% per quarter (or 10% per 
year) and profit participation applied, but neither was guaranteed. Capital redemption was 
dependent upon liquidity in the fund or from security for the loan notes. A risk warning 
(amongst others) was given in the funds Information Memorandum (IM) saying 
redemptions could be significantly delayed in the event of illiquidity. The loan notes were to 
be secured upon first charges on the end borrowers properties, and the fund also held a first 
charge and debenture over all Waterman 104s assets.
Initially and until November 2018 Mr K received PIRs, effective up to the quarter ending 
October 2018. Around this time, he learnt the fund was being wound up. Thereafter, 
arrangements were concluded to result in PIR payments to him to cover the period from 
November 2018 to October 2022. He has received these payments, but he has also been 
seeking a return of his capital since April 2019, which is when CMLs representative 
promised that payment would be made. In August 2021 he formally requested redemption of 
his capital. That request is yet to be fulfilled. His complaint issues relate mainly to the period 
from November 2018 to date.
One of our investigators considered and confirmed our jurisdiction to address the complaint. 
CML says Mr K invested as an elective professional client so he is not an eligible 
complainant under our jurisdiction. The investigator accepted that Mr K had applied for the 
investment as a professional client, and that the regulatory qualitative and quantitative tests 
for this classification had been duly applied and passed. However, he noted that the 
regulatory procedure for the classification had not been properly applied  that even though 
he confirmed he was a professional client in the application form he had not written 
separately to confirm the same, that CML had not then written to give notice of loss of 
investor protection in such a classification, that he had not then written to confirm awareness 
of the notice and that all three were regulatory procedure requirements for the classification. 
On this basis, the investigator considered the classification invalid, that Mr K is not excluded 
from being an eligible complainant and that we can address his complaint. Another 
investigator reviewed the matter and affirmed the conclusion that we can address the 
complaint. He said even if Mr K had been properly classified as a professional client the 
relevant regulations changed in 2015 whereby a professional client could still be regarded as 
an eligible complainant if s/he was a consumer, and that Mr K invested as a consumer. 
The second investigator then concluded that the complaint should be upheld. He mainly said 
CML had paid PIRs up to October 2022, but it had breached its promise to return Mr Ks 
capital in April 2019, that return remains outstanding and the same applies to the PIRs due 
to him since October 2022. He also noted a failure in CMLs customer service to Mr K, 
especially with regards to threats made to him to withdraw his complaint or face loss of his 
capital. The investigator said CML should repay Mr Ks £150,000 capital (with 8% annual 
simple interest from April 2019 to settlement) and should pay him £500 for the 
inconvenience and upset the matter has caused him. With regards to the latter, Mr K 
responded to give six grounds on which he considered an award between £5,000 to £10,000 
to be appropriate, but the investigator was only persuaded to increase the award to £1,000. 
CML disagrees with the findings on jurisdiction and merit. It disputes the investigators 
interpretation of the 2015 regulatory change and it says the implication of that interpretation 
is that the elective professional client classification is essentially redundant, which cannot be 
the case. It also submitted evidence which it said showed that not only did Mr K present 
himself as a professional client and applied to the fund as such, information about him 
personally and professionally confirms he is an established professional investor and that he 
invested in the fund as part of his profession and business, so he cannot qualify as a 
consumer. It also said he was a high net worth and sophisticated investor. 
With regards to the merits of the case, CML argued that PIRs ought not be in dispute 
because Mr K has received them for the period up to October 2022 and the next quarterly 
payment would be due in February 2023 [which was in the future at the time of its 
submissions]; and that they have continued to be paid on the basis of his continuing 
investment, so if he claims a capital redemption status then a total of around £60,000 paid to 
him in PIRs since the cessation of the fund would amount to part repayment of his capital, 
leaving around £90,000 outstanding. It also disputes the finding about its customer service to 
him.
However, CML proposed a resolution. It referred to a promise by Watermans principal to 
personally repay Mr Ks capital as soon as he is able to. It said it believes this ought to be no more than the £90,000 balance payment, but it is possible the principal would pay the full 
£150,000 amount. 
The investigator revised his view further, to reflect and endorse CMLs point about the PIRs 
since April 2019 amounting to part repayments of Mr Ks capital and to confirm that redress 
to him will be based on the remaining capital outstanding. He also sought Mr Ks view on 
CMLs resolution proposal. The case developed thereafter, mainly as follows:
CML confirmed that Watermans principal agrees with the investigators revised view 
but cannot confirm a timescale for payment.
Mr K challenged the revision and questioned how it sat in the context of the 
complaint issues, especially matters in issues 1 and 2. He also questioned aspects of 
the investigators findings, referred to a claim for compound interest and sought an 
explanation on how the revised redress restores his position given the opportunity 
costs he has incurred for as long as his capital has remained unpaid. In response, 
and in the main, the investigator explained the revision to his view; he explained that 
it would be unfair for Mr K to have received 10% per year returns on his capital, from 
the fund, between April 2019 and October 2022 and then to be awarded 8% interest 
on the same capital amount over the same period (totalling an 18% per year return); 
he addressed some of the matters in issues 1 and 2 but noted that the crux of the 
complaint is Mr Ks pursuit for recovery of his capital, so that was the main focus of 
his considerations; and he retained his view on the award for inconvenience, and 
stressed that the award is not supposed to be punitive in nature. 
Mr K then said he was inclined to accept the revised outcome, but he asked to be 
provided a calculation of the proposed settlement and questioned the timing of 
settlement. 
CML sent us a calculation of the proposed settlement based on the revised outcome, 
but it seized the opportunity to repeat its dispute over the investigators alternative 
jurisdiction finding and to specify that it had done no more than endorse Watermans 
principals agreement with the revised outcome. In response, the investigator 
distinguished his jurisdiction finding from the argument CML had made; he also noted 
that the crux of the case was non-payment of Mr Ks capital, after CMLs promise to 
do so by April 2019.
Mr K then accepted the revised outcome, on the terms set out by the investigator. 
The investigator explained that, with CMLs acceptance of the same, payment should 
be made by the deadline he had recommended, but if that did not happen interest will 
continue to run and he could look into helping both parties reach settlement. CML 
considered the deadline to be unrealistic and said settlement depended on 
Watermans principals best efforts to raise the necessary funds. It also presented a 
further argument on the investigators alternative jurisdiction finding and considered 
that its role in the case had been misrepresented  that CML never undertook to 
directly (from CMLs money) repay Mr Ks capital, that it had and has no obligation to 
make good any investment losses in the fund, that the settlement was based on 
Watermans principals undertakings and efforts to settle, that the alternative would 
have been to run the fund into a bankruptcy based closure (with total loss and with 
little to be gained from the forced sale of the security for the loan notes), and that it 
was not involved in the subsequent arrangement between the principal and the 
investors in terms of those who elected to continue receiving PIRs and the investor 
who chose instead to recover his capital (without PIRs).Mr K then confirmed that if settlement did not happen by the deadline proposed by 
the investigator he would want an Ombudsmans decision.
No settlement happened on the proposed deadline, so the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman. Mr K made submissions for the Ombudsman. In it, and in the main, he 
summarised his complaints journey within our service and said:
He was not given an opportunity to comment on evidence (an October 2021 
Summary of Winding Up Process document  the document) that influenced the 
investigators revised view before that view was issued. However, he engaged in 
addressing the revised view. When it became clear the investigator could not be 
persuaded to abandon it, and to return to the initial conclusion, he felt compelled to 
accept the revised view.
Given that he accepted the revised view, it should be noted that the matter has been 
referred to an Ombudsman only because CML failed to settle by the investigators 
proposed deadline. As such, no negative inference should be drawn, from the 
referral, against his interests in the complaint. 
However, it should also be noted that the revised view gave insufficient consideration 
to CMLs failed obligations [as set out in issues 1 and 2], to its mishandling of his 
complaint (including its threatening behaviour towards him) and to the mental 
distress CMLs conduct has caused him.
There are also issues to be determined with regards to the document and the 
arrangements that arose at the time the fund was wound up, and thereafter. Could 
CML have unilaterally imposed new terms of repayment at the time without first 
addressing questions about the document? Can CML decide that missed PIRs 
represent partial returns of capital, despite having repaid capital in full to another 
investor? 
The arrangement with Waterman was that it would continue to pay the PIRs until it 
was able to return capital in full. He agreed with the investigators revised view, and 
his interpretation of the PIRs after September 2019 as partial returns of capital, in the 
hope that the case will then be settled. That has not happened and it has now been 
referred to an Ombudsman, so he would like a full reconsideration of the revised 
view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JurisdictionIt is not disputed that Mr K presented himself, in his application for the fund, as a 
professional investor/client. Available evidence confirms this. To be specific, he applied for 
the investment as an elective professional client. The starting point is that such investors 
are not eligible complainants, so our service cannot address complaints from them. The 
regulators Handbook says this in its Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules for our services 
jurisdiction. It does so at DISP 2.7.9 R (2)(a), with regards to professional clients (both 
elective and per se). However, at DISP 2.7.9A R, the rules proceed to say that the exclusion 
does not apply to those who are also consumers in relation to the activity to which the 
complaint relates. 
These DISP rules have been the focus of the debate that developed between CML and the 
second investigator after his revised view. This happened mainly because that view 
presented an alternative finding  in addition to the first investigators findings on our 
jurisdiction  that said even if Mr K was properly classified as an elective professional client 
he would still qualify as an eligible complaint because he was/is a consumer. CML disagrees 
and it mainly says the investigator has misinterpreted the rules and/or evidence shows that 
Mr K was not a consumer in his case.
My conclusion is that Mr K is an eligible complaint, but not for the alternative/additional 
reason given by the second investigator. Instead, my conclusion shares the same initial 
reasoning given by the first investigator  Mr K was not properly classified as an elective 
professional client so that classification does not stand and cannot be used to prevent him 
from being an eligible complainant. Therefore, I do not consider it necessary to treat the two 
DISP rules mentioned above because they relate to those properly classified as professional 
clients and, as I explain below, that was not Mr K. 
Having said this, and before I set out my findings on Mr Ks classification, I should note an 
area of common ground I share with CML. Mr K was a professional investor. There is ample 
of evidence of this, so any dispute in this respect would be arguably futile. CMLs argument 
goes to the extent of saying that he was not and cannot possibly be viewed as a consumer, 
because a consumer is a natural person acting outside his/her trade, business or profession 
but he acted within his business/profession. 
I have some sympathy for this argument because available evidence shows that Mr K 
conducted investment activities as his trade/business/profession. However, I do not uphold 
the argument because of the SIPP element in his case. A pension arrangement is inherently 
personal, so Mr Ks conduct within his SIPP was essentially conduct in a personal capacity  
not in a trade, business or professional capacity. Given that SIPPs are self-invested 
pensions, it is to be expected that he led the investments made within his, but that does not 
automatically mean such personal and pension-based investments can be viewed as part 
his distinct professional investment work. For the purpose of his SIPPs investment in the 
fund, I consider that Mr K was a consumer.
A consumer status is not only relevant to DISP 2.7.9A. It is also relevant to eligibility as a 
complainant. The eligibility test is split into two  an eligible complainant must be a 
consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a guarantor 
[DISP 2.7.3 R]; and an eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a 
relationship covered by the rules [DISP 2.7.6 R]. As stated above, I consider that Mr K acted 
in a consumers capacity in the present case and there is reasonably clear evidence of the 
direct relationship between his investment in the fund and CMLs operation and 
management of the fund. As such, unless his professional classification takes me back to 
DISP 2.7.9 R and DISP 2.7.9A R, he is an eligible complainant. 
The professional classification for Mr K was not properly done, so the classification does not 
stand and I have no cause to return to DISP 2.7.9 R and DISP 2.7.9A R.As the first investigator said, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section of the 
regulators Handbook  at COBS 3.5.3 R  sets out the requirements for an elective 
professional client classification. Three tests apply and are presented as follows  

(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged that the client is capable of making his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risk involved (the qualitative test).
(2) In relation to MiFID or equivalent third country business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
a. The client has carried out transactions in significant size on the relevant market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters.
b. The size of the clients financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500.
c. The client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged.
(the quantitative test): and
(3) The following procedure is followed:
a. The client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a 
professional client either generally or in respect of a particular service or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
b. The firm must give the client a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights the client may lose; and
The client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware of 
the consequences of losing such protections.
There is enough evidence  especially information and representations directly from Mr K at 
the time of the investment  showing that the qualitative and quantitative tests were properly 
applied and duly passed. There is no evidence the procedure test was applied, so it follows 
that there is no evidence it was passed. The investigators view explored potential reasons 
why this might have been the case. Whilst I understand how those reasons might be 
relevant, I do not consider it necessary to be drawn into speculation in this respect. The rules 
do not give me discretion to do so. Either COBS 3.5.3 R was met or it was not, and available 
evidence (or lack of) says it was not met in Mr Ks case. As such, the elective professional 
classification that was applied to him does not stand; and as I addressed above, he is an 
eligible complainant.
Merits
Mr Ks grounds for complaint have been competently articulated in his complaint 
submissions. I consider that I have accurately summarised those grounds in my descriptions 
of issues 1, 2 and 3. 
In the course of our investigation a fourth ground appears to have arisen, that being CMLs 
complaint handling. I address this first and briefly. Complaint handling is a matter beyond our 
remit. It is not a regulated activity. In some cases, a firms complaint handling might be 
directly linked to the substantive complaint issue and/or its resolution, so it might be viewed 
as a part of the overall complaint. In Mr Ks case, and as I explain next, the substantive complaint issue was/is his pursuit for return of his capital. That was dependent upon CML 
and/or Waterman having available funds to do so, it was not linked to or dependent upon the 
handling of his complaint. Therefore, the matter remains outside my remit and I make no 
specific finding on CMLs complaint handling. Instead, further below, I present my finding on 
the personal impact upon Mr K from his overall experience in the case.
I understand the lines of enquiry, arguments and accountability that Mr K seeks in issues 1, 
2 and 3. In another case, where there is a need to apply dedicated and detailed treatment to 
such issues that will be done. Given the facts and circumstances of Mr Ks case, I am not 
persuaded that such an approach is necessary. 
In straightforward terms, he wants to recover his investment capital, the terms for the fund 
give him a conditional right (depending on liquidity) to such a recovery, CMLs 
representatives letter to him of November 2018 confirmed that the plan was to liquidate a 
particular security by the end of that year and that it had asked Waterman to ensure all 
liquidated funds were made available by April 2019, no capital redemption happened in 
2019, no full capital redemption has happened to date, but Mr K has nevertheless continued 
to receive PIR based payments up to October 2022.
I do not wish to be dismissive of his specific claims under issues 1, 2 and 3, but they have 
inherent limitations when viewed in the context I have summarised above, and when viewed 
in terms of this services remit. If and/or where the issues relate to alleged regulatory 
misconduct, such allegations (in isolation) would be matters for the regulator. If and/or where 
fraud has been alleged, that (in isolation) would be a criminal matter. This service is not the 
regulator and we do not have a criminal law enforcement remit. 
If and/or where allegations of regulatory misconduct and/or fraud exist to support Mr Ks core 
assertions in issues 1, 2 and 3 (about breach of fiduciary duties, negligence and 
misrepresentation (and including the sub-issues within these assertions)) they can be 
considered in this context. However, even if each issue is individually upheld the remedy that 
applies, in total, will not go beyond the capital recovery that he seeks, plus interest. 
As I said above, his conditional right to capital recovery already exists in the terms of the 
fund. The condition relates to liquidity. That stands to reason because capital cannot be 
returned if there is no money to do so, and the fund was a high risk UCIS with prior warnings 
about such risks and about potential illiquidity at the point of redemption. Nevertheless, it is 
not disputed that it was a loan note based fund from which investors had, in principle, a right 
to recover their full capital. Mr Ks right to do so became more relevant when the fund was 
wound up. The plan was to meet his entitlement in 2019, that failed and he formally 
exercised his redemption request in August 2021. 
In other words, issues 1, 2 and 3 do not need to be addressed or upheld to achieve the 
remedy Mr K seeks, and upholding them would not give him a better form of remedy. He 
already has a basis, as defined by the terms for the fund, to recover his capital.
The above finding leads me to CMLs main argument. It presents itself as having no direct 
obligation in the matter, and it says its role is limited to liaising between Mr K and 
Waterman/Watermans principal to explore and achieve a resolution. 
Any positive and meaningful effort by CML to help resolve the case is of course to be 
commended. However, it is wrong to say it has no obligation in the case. 
CML operated and managed the fund, it received investment capital from investors in the 
fund and the funds terms made/make it responsible for capital redemptions. It is not 
disputed that Waterman was the firm through which loans were administered and issued to the end borrowers, but Mr K was on a different side of the scenario. He was not an end 
borrower and he had no direct investment in Waterman, instead his investment was in the 
fund operated and managed by CML. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that CML is 
responsible for the task of fulfilling his capital redemption pursuit  indeed, there is enough 
evidence in its November 2018 letter and in its correspondence in the years thereafter 
showing its acknowledgment of this responsibility.
For all the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ks right, as defined in the terms, to recover his 
capital from the fund and from CML. The matter of redress is a significant part of his case, 
and I address that (and the question of what presently constitutes his capital) separately 
below. Before doing so, I have considered his submissions to the Ombudsman and I 
respond as follows:
My role is to determine his complaint afresh, based on the facts and evidence 
available to me, based on the relevant rules and laws, and based on my reasoned 
findings and conclusions on the facts, evidence, rules and laws. I have done this, I 
am satisfied that, at present, both parties submissions and comments on the case 
have been exhausted, and I have considered them all fairly. The same applies to 
evidence in the case. I consider this a reasonable response to Mr Ks comments on 
the second investigators revised view, his concerns about the view and about the 
manner it was reached. 
It is a matter of fact that his case has reached our decision stage after his agreement 
with the revised view and after CMLs inability to settle redress to Mr K (having 
presented the redress calculation) by the deadline proposed by the investigator.
I have already treated the matter of complaint handling.
I address the events after the funds winding up and after Mr Ks redemption request 
in the next section. These events relate to points he has made about the 
arrangements that applied during these periods, about the payments that were made 
and about how those payments relate to the capital recovery/redress he is due.
I also remain mindful of the six points Mr K made with regards to the inconvenience award 
proposed by the investigator. I address this aspect in the next section too.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation for Mr K will be to redress his pursuit for recovery of his investment 
capital and to award him compensation for the trouble he has faced in the pursuit. The 
events after the funds winding up, and then after his capital redemption request are broadly 
factual and undisputed. The same applies to the fact that, at present, he has received 
payments covering the full period between November 2018 and October 2022. In November 
2018 the fund was closed and by April 2019 the fund had effectively been wound up. It 
follows that, as a matter of fact, payments received thereafter could not have been returns 
arising from an ongoing fund  because there was no ongoing fund. 
I accept that the so-called continuing interest payments (made in lump sums during the 
above period) arose from Watermans undertaking. On, it appears, an ex-gratia basis it 
undertook to make them for those investors like Mr K who agreed to receive them. This gave 
a semblance of ongoing active investment in the fund. In reality, that did not exist. He 
received payments up to October 2022, but the fund had been wound up long before then. From the point of its winding up, between November 2018 and April 2019, and onwards, the 
only real position applicable to Mr K was/is that of an investor awaiting return of his capital 
from the fund. Indeed, this [return of capital] is what the fund expressly promised to do by 
April 2019. 
As such, I do not find a basis to consider the payments to Mr K for the period from April 2019 
and up to October 2022 as anything other than partial returns of his capital. He should not 
be unjustly enriched by retaining all those payments whilst also having a claim to recover his 
full capital. Recovery of his capital, at present, must therefore be qualified by a subtraction, 
from £150,000, of the total payments [partial payments of capital] he has received between 
April 2019 and October 2022 (or to date). The remainder is what he is entitled to seek in 
recovery.
I must be mindful that Mr Ks right to recover his capital was conditional upon liquidity in the 
fund, so I have considered this seriously in terms of whether (or not) he should be entitled to 
any form of interest. There is an obvious argument that interest ought not apply because a 
delay in recovering his capital is one of the risks he wilfully accepted in the investment. I 
addressed the notice he was given about this risk in the previous section. 
In another case, and depending on the facts, I could be persuaded not to make an interest 
award. In the present case, and on balance, I agree with the award of interest. I do so on the 
facts of the case. In the main  evidence of Mr K being led to expect full recovery in April 
2019; evidence of cross communications which sustained the expectation of such recovery 
thereafter; and evidence of the payments made to him up to October 2022, which further 
sustained his expectation and which illustrates a meaningful degree of available liquidity in 
or related to the fund. In terms of the last point, I am mindful that the fund had charges on 
assets belonging to end borrowers and, importantly, assets belonging to Waterman too. The 
payments up October 2022 from Waterman appear to have been made in recognition of the 
latter  or can fairly be viewed as such  and were therefore related to the recovery of capital 
from the fund. As both sides have mentioned, a different investor appears to have received a 
full return of capital in this way.
The payments up to October 2022 were not made quarterly from 2019. They were made in a 
handful of lump sums from around late 2021 onwards. Ordinarily, I would have considered 
applying interest as and when each partial capital payment was periodically made and as 
the remainder amount changed. However, because the payments were made in lump sums, 
because Mr K was deprived his capital for over two years before the first lump sum payment 
and in order to simplify the calculation I agree with the application of interest, on the capital 
remainder amount, from April 2019 to the date of settlement.
I now turn to the award to Mr K for the trouble and inconvenience he has faced in the case. 
The second investigator proposed £1,000, but he is asking for between £5,000 and £10,000. 
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to increase the investigators proposed award.
The points Mr K made in support of his request for an increase include the following main 
assertions  
He has endured distress caused by CMLs inactions and lack of engagement after 
November 2018, after April 2019 and in 2021. This led him to be concerned about 
the validity of the fund, in terms of its set-up, and to be concerned that he had 
potentially been defrauded.
He experienced undue pressure from CML to withdraw his complaint, after it had 
made great effort to have the complaint dismissed by this service and after it had 
made similar effort to dissuade him from referring the complaint to us. CMLs misconduct in his case has been negligent at best or fraudulent at worst. 
The delay in recovering his capital has had a significant impact upon his retirement 
planning and has caused him financial worries.
This service should be mindful of his effort over a long period of time to recover his 
capital.
The interest payment, on redress, does not adequately compensate him for the 
distress caused by the aforementioned impacts from the delay.
I find as follows:
Notice of the end the fund was issued in late 2018 and Mr K has received payments 
of 10% of his capital per year from then and up to October 2022 (or to date). As such, 
in broad terms, he has already recovered around 40% of his capital. He will be 
awarded the remaining 60% (approximately) in my orders below, as well as interest 
at the rate of 8% simple per year on that remainder from April 2019 to the date of 
settlement. The capital fully restores his position and the interest sufficiently covers 
any claim of opportunity cost within his case. He made an investment in which 
returns/profits were never guaranteed and in which there was a known and accepted 
risk of significant delays in recovering capital. He wilfully undertook the investment on 
this basis. I consider that all the above sets relevant context.
The above context means that delays in recovering capital was something Mr K 
either expected or ought reasonably to have expected in his investment, so I do not 
consider such delays to be grounds to increase a trouble and inconvenience award. 
The same applies to his efforts during any such delayed periods. The £1,000 award 
already caters for the manner in which his expectations were unduly raised and 
mismanaged during this period, and I am not persuaded to compensate him 
additionally for the delay itself or for his efforts during it.
The fund was a high-risk investment, so it is implicit that Mr K wilfully sought to 
expose the part of his retirement planning that was within the fund to high risks. 
Therefore, I am not persuaded to compensate him additionally for his references to 
impact on his retirement planning and to associated financial worries. 
As I explained in addressing our jurisdiction, CMLs failure to apply the correct 
procedure to Mr Ks classification and his investment through the SIPP are key 
reasons why he is an eligible complainant. Given that CML possibly (if not probably) 
overlooked these aspects previously, it is understandable that it initially considered 
that the complaint could not be referred to us. For the same reasons, its challenges 
against our jurisdiction are also understandable  especially, as I mentioned above, 
with evidence of Mr Ks professional/trade/business investment activities. However, 
its conduct in pressuring him directly to withdraw the complaint was unreasonable. It 
was already challenging our jurisdiction in correspondence with us and that should 
have been as far as it went. I am satisfied that the £1,000 already caters for the 
trouble caused to him in this respect, so no additional award is called for.
As the investigator explained, our awards are not intended to be punitive. As such, 
any alleged wrongdoings by CML in terms of fraud, negligence and in the setting up 
of the fund would not serve as potential grounds to increase the award to Mr K.CMLs lack of engagement with Mr K over time would have caused him a degree of 
distress. However, I am satisfied that compensation for this is also covered by the 
£1,000 award.
what must CML do?
CML must pay Mr K £1,000 for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him, over 
time, in the complaint matter and for the reasons given above.
In terms of redress, CML must do the following:
Note Mr Ks investment capital of £150,000 as A.
Calculate all payments made to Mr K after 30 April 2019 and up to date. The total is 
B.
Calculate A minus B. The result in C.
Pay Mr K the full amount in C.
In addition, calculate interest on C at the rate of 8% simple per year, from 30 April 
2019 to the date of settlement. The result is D. Pay Mr K the full amount in D.
Provide Mr K a calculation of redress in a clear and simple format.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Ks case, the key complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened from 30 
April 2019 onwards when he was led to expect a return of his capital) and the complaint was 
referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2021), so the applicable 
compensation limit would be £355,000. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and I order City & Merchant Limited 
to calculate and pay him redress, and compensation for trouble and inconvenience, as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman