DRN-1035163
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that MBNA Limited applied a default to her credit record, when shed been 
told this wouldnt happen if she made a payment to her credit card accounts. She says this 
was agreed over the phone but MBNA hasn't provided the call recording of this 
conversation.
In bringing her complaint, Mrs P is represented by Mr S.
What happened
Mrs P has two credit card accounts with MBNA. She contacted it in mid 2018 when she was 
experiencing financial difficulties in making the payments towards her balances. At this time, 
MBNA agreed to suspend the fees and interest on her accounts for around six months. 
However, arrears began to build up on the accounts, and at the end of 2018 MBNA issued 
her with a notice of default for each of them.
On Mrs Ps behalf, Mr S spoke to MBNA about how she could prevent a default being 
applied to the accounts. He recalls being told that if she made the monthly repayments, this 
would stop the process. They made a payment to each account in December 2018, but 
MBNA still continued to default her accounts the following month.
Mr S complained on Mrs P's behalf and asked for the call recordings of his discussions with 
MBNA. MBNA agreed to send them but Mr S and Mrs P didn't receive them, and needed to 
contact MBNA again. Mr S asked MBNA to review the application of the defaults on Mrs P's 
accounts.
MBNA apologised for the call recordings not being sent. It put through another request for 
this to be prioritised, and offered Mrs P £75 for the inconvenience. However, MBNA said it 
felt Mrs P had been kept informed of its arrears process throughout, and had been given 
sufficient notice of the defaults, which it said had been applied correctly and so wouldn't be 
removed.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
listened to the call recordings and said that Mr S was told that if Mrs P didnt clear the 
arrears on her accounts then they would default. When the two payments were made in 
December 2018, the investigator said that Mr S had been told this would delay the process 
until the end of January. Overall, the investigator thought it had been made clear on more 
than one occasion that if Mrs Ps account arrears werent cleared in full, her accounts would 
default. She was satisfied that MBNA had acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions, and had looked to treat Mrs P positively and sympathetically.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that there was a further phone 
conversation when the payments were made to the account where MBNA said that the 
default process on Mrs P's accounts would stop if that months payments were made. He felt 
the assessment of the complaint was incomplete without this call recording. He said he was never told that it would only halt the process. He said it was frustrating that this call recording 
was missing as that it what Mrs Ps complaint is based upon  what he was told in that call. 
He said this absence of evidence should be in Mrs Ps favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mrs Ps situation, and understand that she and Mr S looked to try to avoid 
her accounts defaulting. 
Ive listened to the provided call recordings, and while I appreciate that MBNA has not been 
able to locate the recording for the specific call Mr S has referred to where he made part- 
payments towards Mrs Ps arrears, I dont think that MBNA has acted unfairly or 
inappropriately in its handling of her accounts. 
I say this because I think MBNA made Mrs P aware of the arrears that had built up; what 
actions she could take to repay these and also what may happen if they weren't cleared. 
Letters to Mrs P explained: 
Unfortunately, you've not met the terms of your credit agreement and currently your 
repayments aren't enough to prevent a default from registering with the credit reference 
agencies. If a default is registered it will remain on your credit file for at least six years and 
any potential employer, car dealership or creditor who uses credit reference agencies will be 
able to see this information. We'll provide you with 30 days advance notice of the registration 
of the default unless you've already received this notice. Once a default is registered, we'll 
terminate your agreement and may sell your debt; this means legally selling your debt and 
transferring the rights to collection of the outstanding balance to another company. But if we 
do, we'll make sure the details of your financial circumstances and recent payments you've 
been making are passed to the relevant company.
MBNA sent Mrs P notice that her accounts would default at the beginning of November 
2018. However, she'd moved home before she received them. 
So although I appreciate that she may not have received these particular letters; I think that 
the previous and ongoing communication she and Mr S were having with MBNA through this 
time made her aware of the arrears and that these would need to be cleared to avoid the 
accounts defaulting. 
And Mr S spoke to MBNA in December 2018, after the notices had been issued, about how 
Mrs P could avoid the accounts defaulting and at this time updated her address details, 
which further suggests that they were aware of the situation. They then made payments to 
each account, but this wasnt enough to clear the arrears and no payments were made in 
January 2019 before MBNA applied the defaults to the accounts. 
The notice of default from November 2018 said that this would be applied if the arrears were 
not cleared. So even though payments were made in December, this didnt fulfil the 
requirements to avoid the default. I dont think that MBNA shouldve been required to send 
Mrs P further notice following the partial payments, as the initial notices had set out what 
would happen if the arrears weren't cleared.
MBNA hasnt been able to locate the recording of the call that Mr S has said he was told that 
making monthly payments would stop the default process, so I can't be certain of what was 
said or agreed in that call. But MBNA's notes of this conversation record that Mr S was told that making the payments would delay the accounts defaulting until the end of January 2019 
- which they did. 
On balance, I think it's more likely that this was how it was explained to Mr S, rather than 
MBNA saying the payments would completely stop the default process. I say this because all 
the other communications with MBNA let Mr S and Mrs P know that only clearing the arrears 
in full would do this. 
So although I can fully appreciate Mr Ss sense of frustration about the missing call 
recording, I think that all the other information both he and Mrs P were provided with made 
them aware of what would happen if the arrears weren't fully cleared. I dont think MBNA 
should be required to amend or remove the default status from Mrs Ps credit history when 
this reflects how she managed her credit card accounts. MBNA has a responsibility to report 
accurate and up-to-date information to credit reference agencies, and I think thats what it 
has done here.
MBNA has previously offered Mrs P £75 to recognise that the call recordings weren't sent to 
her when they were first requested, and I leave it for Mrs P to contact MBNA about this 
should she wish to now accept this, if this offer is still available.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman