DRN-1908658
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim.   
What happened
Mr R took out a private medical insurance policy with Aviva at the end of July 2018. Shortly 
after, in September, he visited his doctor as hed noticed a small lesion on his face. 
Mr R said hed noticed a small spot around eight weeks prior. Hed previously had basal cell 
carcinoma (BCC) in the same place but wasnt sure if the new issue was related. He 
explained it looked and felt different to the BCC hed had previously in 2012. The lesion was 
excised, and Mr R submitted his claim for the costs associated with this, but it was declined 
by Aviva.
Aviva said it declined his claim as it believed the symptoms were present prior to the policy 
start date, in June/July 2018. Aviva also said it wont cover any illness that were pre-existing. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had declined Mr Rs claim unfairly. She accepted there was 
some ambiguity about when the symptoms began because the medical evidence referred to 
approximate timescales, but overall, she was persuaded his symptoms began within the 
policy start date. She said Aviva should pay the claim, less any applicable excess. 
Aviva disagreed for the same reasons listed above. And so, its for me to make a final 
decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
There were two pieces of medical evidence which captured information about when 
Mr R first noticed the new lesion. The first was dated 28 September 2018. There are 
GP notes which confirm Mr R noticed the problem eight weeks prior. Ive carefully 
considered this and Im satisfied his symptoms began within the cover period and 
was in August that year. And so, given the policy began at the end of July 2018, I 
disagree with Aviva because Mr Rs problems presented within the period 
insurance. Aviva hasnt given a reason why it doesnt accept this, despite our 
investigator making this clear. But to decline Mr Rs claim on that basis was unfair. 
The other piece of evidence which discussed how long Mr Rs symptoms were 
present were notes from the specialist he was referred to in July 2019. The medical 
notes explained that Mr Rs symptoms had been present for 12 months. I can see 
why Aviva wanted to question this because it would appear that Mr Rs symptoms 
had been present in July 2018  which would have fallen outside of the cover 
window as the policy was not in place then. But Mr R explained that this was a 
factual inaccuracy. He explained that having suffered with BCC previously, he 
would have sought medical advice much sooner than he did if that were indeed the 
case that his symptoms started sooner. I find this statement persuasive because its 
reasonable given Mr Rs medical history. Mr R also revisited the specialist so he 
could clarify the inaccuracy. The specialist wrote a follow-up statement explaining 
that this had been a misunderstanding and that Mr Rs symptoms began during the 
policy cover period and that he was generalising. I also find that persuasive 
because I think it shows he was referencing the amount of time that Mr R had 
suffered rather than an accurate diagnosis. 
Overall, I accept that Mr Rs claim fell close to the policy start date, but I dont think its fair to 
decline his claim for those reasons. I say that because theres not enough evidence to 
suggest his symptoms presented prior to the policy start date. The doctors involved appear 
to have used approximations in their medical notes simply to provide context. Where theres 
ambiguity, I must make a decision based on the balance of probabilities. And so, on balance, 
Im satisfied Mr Rs symptoms began during the policy cover period for the reasons Ive 
explained. 
I also disagree with any suggestion that this could be caught by the moratorium underwriting 
as Ive seen no evidence that persuades me that Mr R had suffered symptoms, took 
medication, sought advice or anything of that nature, since 2012 when he last suffered with 
BCC. And so, my final decision is that Aviva should pay for Mr Rs medical expenses, less 
and applicable excess.  
My final decision
Im holding Mr Rs complaint for the reasons Ive given above. Aviva Insurance Limited must 
now pay the claim in line with the remaining terms of this policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman