DRN-3026278
The complaint
Ms J complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc refuses to refund transactions 
made using her Mastercard credit card to a fraudulent binary options trading company.
What happened
On 4 May 2017, Ms J was cold called by a broker representing Stern Options. He offered her 
an investment opportunity where an experienced trader would guide her through trading and 
she stood to earn a lot of money. She was told she needed a minimum investment of 
£10,000 to open the account and Ms J proceeded to make payments from three cards, two 
of those payments came from Ms Js Marks & Spencer Mastercard credit card. 
Ive listed the transactions in dispute below:
Date Supplier Payment Method Amount
4 May 2017 Stern Options Marks & Spencer Mastercard 
credit card£3,895.27 (Transaction fee 
£116.47)
4 May 2017 Stern Options Marks & Spencer Mastercard 
credit card£1,558.11 (Transaction fee 
£46.59)
Total: £5,453.38 (Transaction 
fees £163.06)
After signing her deposit declaration, Ms J called her broker and asked for her money back 
as she realised the terms of her employment would not allow her to have this type of 
investment. Ms Js broker said she couldnt have her money back and the only way to get it 
back would be to trade. On 9 May 2017, Ms Js broker told her that her account was 
activated and that Stern Options had added a bonus to help get her money back quickly. Ms 
Js broker told her which trades to place and shortly after doing as she was advised, she was 
pressured to put more money onto her trading account. Ms J told her broker that she didnt 
have anymore money and he suggested that she should take out more credit card lending, 
which she did. She invested so much that she couldnt keep up with her credit card 
payments and the broker suggested she takes out a loan. When Ms J was unable to 
withdraw her money from her Stern Option trading account, she realised something was 
wrong.
 
Ms J realised that she was not given a genuine trading account and was rather given a video 
game or simulation. She cancelled her trading account in October 2017 and asked for her 
money back. Her broker stopped responding to her. 
Ms J contacted Marks & Spencer for assistance with recovering her money. It concluded she 
had no chargeback options or section 75 rights. Ms J referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators suggested that Marks & Spencer returns Ms Js money. She felt a 
claim under section 75 had been established as Stern Options was operating a scam and 
misrepresented themselves to Ms J. Marks & Spencer disagreed. It said in summary:
There was no specific instruction of Ms J not being able to withdraw her funds. It 
therefore appears that there was no specific discussion between Ms J and Stern 
Options of this issue and not one which amounted to a false statement of fact. 
Failure to mention something relevant cannot amount to misrepresentation and any 
statement of fact must also have been made prior to the payments she made. Much 
of the events surround events that took place after the payments. 
Its unclear why Ms J continued using Stern Options if this was contrary to her 
employment. 
Ms J claims to not have signed terms and conditions but it doesnt mean they didnt 
apply to the account. Its common for a business to operate on standard terms and 
conditions. It is clear Ms J did have access to an online trading platform. 
There is no explanation as to the delays between the payment and Ms J reporting the 
matter to Marks & Spencer.
The wording in the opinion appears in numerous opinions it has received from this 
service in relation to section 75 and binary trading complaints. It acts as a tick-box 
approach to determining the case rather than what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
There is no explanation of what the representation was, who it was made by, or when 
it was made. To state you might make money is not a statement of fact but rather of 
possibility. 
No breach of contract or clear misrepresentation has been identified as Ms L did not 
sign any terms and conditions. 
We mention the BSI code but it was not introduced at the time of the payments. 
Our investigator clarified that she did not reference the BSI code in her view. Marks & 
Spencer asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered that Ms J had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits any chargeback options related to investments or 
gambling.
I also dont think some of the dispute points made by Marks & Spencer are relevant to the 
outcome of Ms Js s.75 claim, so I dont intend to comment on them all. 
 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Js complaint on the 
basis that Marks & Spencer is liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set 
out what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are three parties involved:
1. Ms J (the debtor)
2. Marks & Spencer (the creditor); 
3. Stern Options (the supplier)  as shown on Ms Js paperwork and on Marks & 
Spencers business file submissions. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Ms J has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction for each of the deposits (which Ill call the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Ms J had not used her credit card she would have 
had to find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled her to. So, its clear that the deposit-transactions 
were financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Ms Js claim is 
here. Its evident from her testimony and correspondence she provided that she feels she 
was tricked into depositing the payments with Stern Options for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Ms J to deposit larger amounts. 
Ms J does not believe that Stern Options was operating legitimately and believes she was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim  that Ms J was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Ms J was told by Stern Options matters that were factually untrue in 
order to trick her into entering into the deposit-transactions, her claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if Stern Options made binding promises to her as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make her claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Marks & Spencer has declined the claim under s.75 because it says that Ms J was paying 
into a binary options account and these are classed as a form of gambling by the UKs 
Gambling Commission. It said, the deposits were not for the purchase of goods/services, 
they were a credit to her trading account. I take this to mean that the deposits were nothing 
more than transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating 
with the money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case 
Stern Options has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transactions. 
Marks & Spencer in its refusal to accept liability under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is 
important to note that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there 
anything within the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transactions. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Ms J has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Ms J has made a claim of misrepresentation by Stern Options  that claim being 
that they represented to her that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Ms J into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one 
in which Ms J could have ever received back more money than she deposited, then it follows 
that any statements made by Stern Options to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Ms J could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Ms Js account of events, the nature of the situation 
and Ms Js communication with her Stern Options broker that they did claim that Ms J could 
have made money from the trading platform. 
That induced her into entering the agreementAgain, had Ms J known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of her 
not investing with Stern Options. Consequently, should I be satisfied that Stern Options isnt 
operating a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Ms Js account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature but specific complaints against this particular merchant. Because of 
this Im minded to find her account to be truthful.
So, turning to her account, I note that she mentioned coming into contact with Stern Options 
after receiving a cold call. Ms J says Stern Options promised her large returns with a 
dedicated account manager who would guide her through her trades. When Ms J tried to 
have her money returned, the adviser told her she couldnt until she traded. When she tried 
to withdraw her money after she traded, she was unable to. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by Stern Options. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades 
were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the merchant is 
offering little more than a video game or simulation.
Ive noted regulators published warnings about Stern Options as follows: 
On 2 June 2017, an alert about Stern Options was published by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) warning that they were offering financial services in its 
jurisdiction without authorisation. 
On 28 May 2018 (after Ms Js payments), the Financial Market Authority in Austria 
published an alert about Stern Options on the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal. 
On 18 June 2018 (after Ms Js payments), the Australian Securities and Investments 
Commission published an investor alert about Stern Options on the IOSCO. 
Ive also noted that binary options traders offering services in the UK were required to be 
regulated by the UKs Gambling Commission at the time of Ms Js payments and Stern 
Options were not. Nor were they licensed or regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably 
aware. 
Stern Options is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also 
several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Ms Js.
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into 
applying for credit - as Stern Options did here - to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the refusal to allow withdrawals from the platform  again a complaint repeated 
across many complaints against similar firms. I note most of the communication Ms J had 
with Stern Options was over the phone but when she attempted to cancel her account and 
retrieve her funds in October 2017 in writing, Stern Options didnt reply. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely Stern Options was operating a legitimate 
enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Ms J  specifically 
that they were running a genuine enterprise through which she could ever have got back more than her deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Ms J had known this, she 
wouldnt have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of 
these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fees linked to the deposit-transactions is somewhat straight forward to cover 
off. Had the deposit-transactions not have occurred the transaction fees couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fee was a direct consequence of each deposit-transaction. 
As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a bank used by Ms J to 
make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, Im satisfied Ms Js 
payment of the transaction fees was consequential loss in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Here, Ms J has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there 
was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that Stern Options had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Ms J to use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Ms J to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
Ms J wasnt permitted to withdraw the funds from her trading account. She might have made 
losses or profits from her investment  so a breach of the former term has not  on the 
balance of probabilities  caused her to lose trading profits and she would (on balance) have 
been left no better or worse off than when she made the deposit-transactions.   
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Ms Js loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of the deposit-transactions.
Transaction fee
I need to consider how much better off Ms J would have been if the merchant had fulfilled its 
contractual obligations to her. Applying that test to each deposit-transaction, its clear that 
each transaction fee was not a recoverable consequence of the deposit-transaction. I say this because allowing Ms J to trade on the account and withdraw the deposit as and when 
she wished would not have prevented her from having to pay the transaction fee. 
So, the transaction fee should not be held as a recoverable loss in connection with the 
breach of contract claim relating to the deposit-transactions. 
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Ms J could have recovered her deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Ms J has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that Stern Options made a series of misrepresentations, namely that they 
were operating a legitimate enterprise and that Ms J could access her money freely 
and earn a profit from her deposit-transactions. Im also satisfied that the deposit-
transaction fees meets the test for consequential loss in misrepresentation as they 
wouldnt have been incurred but for the deposit-transactions. They were also a 
direct and foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Ms J also has a claim for breach of contract as Stern 
Options breached the verbal promises to Ms J. Namely that she would be able to use 
the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment platform and access them 
freely  when she wished.  This provides another basis for recovery of the deposit-
transactions but not the deposit-transaction fees. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, Marks & Spencer should put Ms J 
back into the position she would have been had the deposit-transactions of £5,453.38 had 
not been entered into and transaction fees of £163.06 had not been charged by Marks & 
Spencer. So, she should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts credited to her 
by Stern Options.
My final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc should refund Ms J the 
deposit-transactions and transaction fees, plus interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transactions, less any amounts credited to her Marks & Spencer 
credit card account by Stern Options; 
Refund the transaction fees; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Marks & Spencer deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Ms J with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman