DRN-3026992
The complaint
Miss C has complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent her a loan in November 
2018. Miss C also said that 1Plus1 called her to make an offer to settle the complaint which 
she declined, she says the agent became intimidating her over the phone when she didnt 
accept the offer.
What happened
Miss C took out one loan with 1Plus1 in November 2018. The loan was for £2,500 to be 
repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £153.13.
When Miss C complained to 1Plus1, it didnt uphold her complaint, it said the loan was 
affordable for her.
Miss C through a third party referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by 
one of our investigators. Our investigator thought that 1Plus1 didnt do enough before it lent 
to Miss C and had it done enough, it wouldnt have lent to her. The investigator explained 
that as she thought the complaint should be upheld, the investigator also said that she felt 
that would also be sufficient to redress the service point raised by Miss C.
1Plus1 disagreed that it shouldnt have lent to Miss C. It says its checks went far enough and 
those checks showed that Miss C could afford the loan repayment. It also said that Miss C 
made all her loan repayments which also showed she could afford the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
1Plus1 was required to gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed 
decision on the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out 
compulsory checks, they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before 
agreeing to lend. The key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to 
take into account a number of different things, including things such as how much was being 
lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 1Plus1 also needed to take 
into account and react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made 
its lending decision.
From the information provided, it seems 1Plus1 searched Miss Cs credit file but I cant see 
that it has provided a copy of its search result. It has provided a list of the items it says it 
found on Miss Cs credit file but not the actual result. 1Plus1 also asked Miss C about her 
income  she declared she earned £2,600 as a nurse and £87 from child benefit payments. 
1Plus1 had a phone call with Miss C where it went through her income and living costs, it 
also questioned her about the entries on her credit file to establish how much she was 
paying towards credit each month. 1Plus1 says it added an emergency buffer of £100 and 
based on what Miss C declared it worked out that she had £185 in disposable income. 
Based on the outcome of all these checks, it though it was reasonable to lend.
Ive carefully thought about what 1Plus1 has provided and what it has said. But I think that 
some of its checks raised concerns that should have prompted it to go further to verify some 
of the information Miss C provided. During the call with Miss C I think there were some 
entries on her credit file that she wasnt able to explain. For example, the agent questioned 
her about a mortgage in arrears, but she said she didnt have any arrears, even though it 
showed up on the credit file. Also, Miss C said she had fully repaid one of her credit cards, 
but the credit file suggested otherwise.
According to the credit entry list provided by 1Plus1, Miss C had eight defaults from 2016 
onwards, with the most recent one in August 2018, only three months before this loan in 
question. Im also mindful that even though Miss C was consolidating some of her credit with 
this loan, she was still due to repay over £1,000 in unsecured credit  a significant portion of 
her monthly income. As 1plus1 didnt take it checks further, I dont think it did enough.
I note that Miss C provided 1Plus1 access to her bank statements, but it didnt check those 
as it said, it wouldnt have made a difference to its lending decision and it checking the 
statements would have delayed the lending. Miss C has provided copies of her bank 
statements from around that time and I can see that in the two months before the loan was 
approved, Miss Cs living cost including things like rent, utility and insurance, excluding food 
was around £1,480. I can also see that she was paying over £1,000 in unsecured credit. 
Taking into account this loan repayment of £153.13, Miss C couldnt afford this loan on her 
£2,600 income.
I think further checks would have shown that Miss C couldnt afford this loan but even 
without taking its checks further, the information 1Plus1 had about Miss C already suggested 
that she likely had wider financial problems and while it seemed like she had the disposable 
income, although she didnt for the reasons I explained above, there was a high risk shed 
struggle to repay the loan sustainably over the term. 
Taking it altogether, I dont think 1Plus1 made a fair lending decision when it lent this loan to 
Miss C and because Miss C fully repaid the loan doesnt necessarily mean the lending was 
fair.
Did 1Plus1 act unfairly in some other way
Miss C has said the agent was intimidating towards her when 1Plus1 made her an offer of 
£250 to settle the complaint which she declined. 1Plus1 hasnt been able to provide us with 
that call recording, so I cant say what happened during that call. However, as I dont think 
1Plus1 should have lent to Miss C, I think the redress below will be sufficient to address this 
issue. 
Putting things right - what 1Plus1 should do to put things right
refund all interest and charges applied to the loan, andadd interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded sums from the date they were paid, 
if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give Miss C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman