DRN-4002654
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) issued 
misleading rules for a prize draw and that its staff didnt understand the rules when he 
queried them. He says HLAM credited his account with £150 in recognition of poor service 
but that this was done without his permission.
What happened
Mr A has a stocks and shares ISA with HLAM. In February 2022, HLAM sent Mr A a 
message to remind him to consider using his £20,000 ISA allowance before the tax year 
end. The email included information about a cash prize draw. 
Mr A says that the draw terms said he needed to add at least £500 to his ISA between 
20 February and 5 April 2022 in order to qualify. But, in smaller print, rule six of the terms 
said, no purchase necessary for the Draw. Mr A thought this was contradictory and he 
contacted HLAM for clarification. HLAM told him he had to top up his ISA to qualify.
Following his complaint, HLAM investigated. It was satisfied the prize draw rules werent 
misleading, and it noted Mr A had been entered into the draw via the free entry route. But it 
apologised for the conflicting information given by its helpdesk and credited his account with 
£150 for the poor service it had given, and the inconvenience caused.
Mr A rejected HLAMs offer, which he thought had been paid into his account illegally, and 
he donated the £150 to charity. He said he wants HLAM to:
Apologise to all its customers for the misleading prize draw terms.
Compensate customers who were refused entry into the draw via the free entry route.
Accept rules 1 and 6 are contradictory and remove one of them.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained our 
service didnt have the power to change HLAMs prize draw rules, or to order action on 
behalf of all HLAMs customers. She thought HLAM didnt provide clear information to Mr A, 
but that its apology and compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The rules were misleading. HLAM should be told to print rules one and six next to each 
other to avoid confusion in the future.
He was wrongly told he had to credit his account with £500 to enter the draw. HLAM 
should have ensured its staff were aware of the rules so that he wasnt given the wrong 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware our investigator has made Mr A aware of this services role and the limits of our 
responsibility. But it may be useful to briefly summarise this again. The role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress where 
appropriate. I appreciate Mr A is concerned about HLAMs other clients, but I dont have the 
power to tell a business how it should treat all customers, or how it develops its internal 
policies, or formulates its terms. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I can only consider whether Mr A was impacted by any mistake HLAM made.
Mr A complains that HLAMs prize draw rules were misleading and contradictory. Thats 
because rule one said:
Subject to these terms and conditions, if you open or top up an existing HL Stocks and 
Shares ISA (an ISA) with a minimum of £500 (a Qualifying Subscription) between 20 
February 2022 and 5 April 2022 inclusive (the Qualification Period, 2021/22 tax year only), 
we will enter you into a prize draw with a chance to win £20,000 (the Draw)
And this information was prominent in the body of the message Mr A received.
Rule six said:
No purchase necessary for the Draw. You can also enter the draw by emailing. with your 
client number, name and address.
Mr A says one of the rules should have been removed, or they should have been given 
equal prominence. 
When HLAM advertised its prize draw, which required a £500 ISA subscription to be eligible 
to enter, it was required to allow a free entry route to ensure it acted in line with current 
gambling laws and guidance. Im satisfied it did that and that in doing so it provided two 
routes of entry, rather than contradicting an earlier rule.
I agree with Mr A that it would have been helpful if the free entry route had been given more 
prominence. But Mr A was able to enter the draw by using the free entry route. So I dont 
find he was disadvantaged.
When Mr A phoned HLAM to query the rules, he was given the wrong information. In 
summary, he was told he had to make an ISA subscription to qualify for the draw. HLAM has 
apologised that he was given the wrong information and accepted it should have provided a 
better service. As already noted, I dont find this mistake led to Mr A being disadvantaged, 
because he was able to enter into the draw using the free route. HLAM paid Mr A £150 
compensation. In the circumstances I find this is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
Mr A is unhappy that HLAM credited his account without his permission. HLAM could have 
asked Mr A to either accept or decline its offer before it credited his account. But I dont find 
it was obliged to do so.
I understand Mr As strength of feeling on this matter. But, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I dont find that HLAM needs to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman