DRN-2800463
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland PLC (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a joint mortgage in April 1996. The mortgage 
ended in October 2002. 
What happened
The PPI included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment but only Mr A was 
covered by it. 
Mr and Mrs A said they didnt know they had PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with 
that view. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
I can see Mr and Mrs A feel strongly about their complaint and are unhappy with the way 
BoS have looked into this as well as another complaint which were looking into separately. 
But the issue Im looking at in this decision is whether the PPI that Mr and Mrs A took out in 
April 1996 was mis-sold. 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs A them that I have taken into account everything theyve said. 
However, whilst I am sorry to disappoint them, Im afraid I havent upheld this complaint. Ill 
explain why below.
The parties agree that the PPI was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what 
was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive 
looked at what Mr and Mrs A told us about it. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs A would have known the PPI was 
being added to their mortgage.
Ive treated this as an advised sale, so that means BoS had to make sure the cover was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs As needs. I can see that the cover would protect their mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months if Mr M was unable to work or lost his job. 
Unfortunately, BoS havent been able to provide us with any of the sale paperwork. I 
have, however, seen some computerised records showing the PPI was taken out, which 
includes answers to several questions where Mr A confirmed he was eligible for the PPI 
cover. 
Although being without the actual paperwork from the sale isnt ideal, businesses cant 
be expected to hold on to sale information indefinitely. We do know, however, from 
looking at similar sales from around the same time what the paperwork used in the sale 
wouldve probably looked like. From that, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs A wouldve 
had to tick a box or sign on the mortgage application form to show they wanted to have 
the cover. And it would likely have been just as open to them to indicate they didnt want 
to buy it. 
All of this means I think Mr and Mrs A were aware they were taking out the policy. 
Based on what Ive seen and the length of time since the sale, there simply isnt enough 
evidence or information to suggest to me that the PPI was sold to them without their 
knowledge.
 
Ive also kept in mind that its likely Mr and Mrs A would have received confirmation of 
having taken out PPI after the sale together with details about how the policy worked. 
Looking at what Mr A told us about his sick pay, I think the help PPI provided would 
have lasted for longer than what hed have received at work  up to a year under the 
terms of the policy. Also, I dont think Mr and Mrs A would have been affected by any of 
the policys exclusions about medical conditions. As Ive already said, Mr A confirmed 
he was eligible for the policy when details of the PPI were logged onto BoSs systems. 
And I havent seen anything that would have prevented Mr A from being able to make a 
successful claim if hed needed to. 
It is also important for me to stress that this loan was secured on their home. So if 
Mr and Mrs A fell behind with the repayments, the consequences could have been 
significant, including the loss of their home.
Putting all of this together, I think the PPI probably was suitable for Mr and Mrs As needs.
BoS still had to give Mr and Mrs A enough information about the cover so they could decide 
for themselves whether it was right for them. Its possible that BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs A 
everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how PPI could have been helpful at 
what would have no doubt been a very stressful time if Mr A was unable to work or out of 
work. So I dont think more or better information would have caused Mr and Mrs A to act 
differently.
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs A, but for the reasons set out above, 
I havent upheld their complaint. I dont need to tell BoS to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman