DRN-2704697
The complaint
Mr M complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled fraud on his account.
What happened
On 23 September 2019, there was a fraud on Mr Ms credit card. £800 was transferred to his 
current account. On 23 September 2019, HSBC refunded £800 to his current account. Mr M 
paid this to his account at another bank. On 1 October 2019, HSBC refunded another £800 
to his current account. On 4 October 2019, Mr M transferred £800 to his account with 
another bank. On 23 September 2019, £300 was taken from his HSBC current account 
fraudulently. HSBC refunded this on 23 September 2019.
Mr M complained that HSBC had dealt with the matter badly. Two lots of £800 had been 
refunded (not one) to his current account, but all that needed to happen was to transfer £800 
from his current account back to the credit card. He was promised call backs by the fraud 
team which didnt happen. And HSBC told him that the £300 wasnt a fraud refund but a 
further payment to him. He spent a lot of time on the phone trying to sort out what happened, 
including taking time off work and visiting a branch for a long period, all of which was 
inconvenient. Hed moved the money to another bank as he was worried that his HSBC bank 
details had got into the hands of fraudsters.
HSBC said theyd not handled Mr Ms case well and paid compensation of £250. In their 
letter in October 2019 and in their final response in December 2019, they promised their 
fraud team would contact Mr M to resolve matters.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC couldve handled the fraud 
better. Theyd paid two amounts of £800 to Mr Ms current account  when they needed to 
make one transfer back to his credit card from his current account. He asked HSBC about 
the credit of £300 made on 24 September 2019. HSBC said this was an extra ex-gratia 
payment to Mr M. But after discussion with Mr M and HSBC, it turned out there had been a 
fraud of £300 on Mr Ms account on that day  and HSBC had refunded that. So, it wasnt a 
payment to Mr M after all. The whole episode had caused Mr M a lot of distress and 
inconvenience, and so our investigator said HSBC should pay him the £300 theyd said was 
his, plus a further £100 compensation. 
HSBC disagreed and asked that Mr Ms complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that HSBC created confusion and uncertainty in dealing with 
the fraud on his accounts in September 2019. Some refunds were duplicated  causing 
overpayment and communications werent as good as they might have been.
 HSBC initially dealt with the fraud effectively in September 2019  they prevented any 
further fraud by stopping Mr Ms account  they then contacted him to try to resolve things.  
£800 had been transferred from Mr Ms credit card to his current account by the fraudsters  
but instead of simply transferring it back into his credit card account (it was still in his current 
account), they went ahead and paid two lots of £800 to Mr Ms HSBC current account. 
Because he was concerned about the security of his HSBC account, he moved the money to 
another bank. So  Mr M had been overpaid by HSBC. 
There was a further fraud on 24 September 2019  when £300 was taken from Mr Ms 
current account. HSBC refunded this immediately but told us and Mr M that this payment 
was an additional payment to him (not a fraud refund)  and that it was paid in October 
2019. It was only when we questioned this with HSBC that they realised that it was a fraud 
refund and was actually paid in September 2019. This caused further confusion.
I can see this took a long time to sort out  Mr M first called HSBC when the fraud happened 
in September 2019, and the final matter  of how to deal with the fraud refund of £300 was 
only dealt with in February 2021 as part of our service looking into Mr Ms complaint.
In HSBCs final response, they said their fraud team would get in touch to sort out matters  
but I cant see that ever happened. I can see that Mr M chased HSBC several times about 
this but didnt get any positive feedback from the fraud team. I can see there were several 
conversations where HSBC said things would be considered and theyd get back to Mr M  
but they didnt. So, Mr M was left in the dark about how to get things sorted out.
Mr M says he had to take time off work to try to sort things out  and made a lot of calls to 
HSBC. He also visited a branch  which he said took hours.
Its cleat to me that Mr M suffered a good deal of distress and inconvenience over a long 
period of time. And I agree that HSBC should pay him compensation for this.
Putting things right
HSBC originally said theyd paid Mr M £300  and this wasnt connected to a fraud. But it 
was. So  HSBC should pay this amount to Mr M. And a further £100. This should be paid 
as a total of £400 as compensation for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the 
£250 already paid.  
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr M £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman