DRN-3061501
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to update its systems or change the way it 
held shares when France changed the rate of withholding tax payable for individual non-
resident shareholders. He also complains that Barclays gave the wrong information about 
his accounts in that it was unable to provide scrip dividend amounts and provided false 
information about the level his Glencove shares were ingested into his account.
What happened
Barclays provided an execution only brokerage service to Mr R and held shares he owned in 
Orange, a company resident in France, in a pooled investment in the name of a nominee. In 
2018 a dividend was issued to shareholders from which withholding tax was deducted. Mr R 
complained because of the amount of withholding tax that was deducted from the dividend.
I issued a provisional decision in which, in short, I made the following key findings:
There was nothing wrong with Barclays holding client assets in a pooled account in 
the name of a custodian/sub-custodian.
There was no requirement on Barclays to update its systems when the withholding 
tax rate was changed.
The withholding tax rate was originally 30% for non-resident individuals but an 
individual could file Form 5000 and Form 5001 and reclaim some of the tax.
There was still a need to file Form 5000 after the rate was reduced to 12.8%, and if 
this wasnt done a rate of 30% would still be applied.
The terms and conditions make clear its the clients responsibility to be aware of 
their tax obligations. 
I am satisfied Barclays didnt have any obligation to provide Mr R with specific 
information about withholding tax payable on dividends for his Orange shares, or to 
inform him when the rate was changed to 12.8%.
Barclays terms and conditions make clear that shares could be held in a pooled 
account and might not be separately identifiable.
Barclays should have made reference to there being potential consequences of it 
holding assets in a pooled account and it seems to have come to the same 
conclusions, as its terms for SmartInvestor dated September 2018 include clauses 
that warn that it may not be possible to reclaim withholding tax if assets are held in a 
pooled account.
As Mr R hadnt looked into what he needed to do about withholding tax previously, I 
am not satisfied he would have done anything differently if the terms had included a 
warning about potentially not being able to reclaim withholding tax.
I upheld the complaint but didnt award any redress.
The full findings from my provisional decision are set out below and form part of this final 
decision.
I note Mr R originally suggested to Barclays that it should have updated its systems and 
procedures when the tax rate was changed. However, I think it was up to Barclays how it 
chose to hold client assets. Putting assets into a pooled account in the name of a 
nominee/sub-custodian isnt uncommon and there was nothing wrong with Barclays 
choosing to do this.
There is also no basis to expect it to change how it held assets or update its systems when 
a tax rate in one country changed. Clients could have shares in different overseas 
jurisdictions which have different tax regimes. I dont think Barclays could reasonably be 
expected to notify clients or change systems and processes whenever there was a change 
to withholding tax in one of those jurisdictions.
Mr R also raised a couple of other issues, but I think those issues have been satisfactorily 
answered by Barclays and the investigator, so my findings concentrate on the issue about 
withholding tax.
I think it would be helpful to set out what I think the position is regarding the withholding tax 
that has been applied to the dividends payable on Mr Rs Orange shares. Based on the 
information I have seen the withholding tax rate was 30% for non-resident individuals and 
legal entities such as companies up until January 2018  when the rate for non-resident 
individuals was reduced to 12.8%.
However, from what I have seen, even when the rate was 30% a non-resident individual 
could apply to reclaim some of the withholding tax because of a double taxation treaty 
between France and the UK. This could be done by filing the relevant forms - that is Form 
5000 to establish you are non-resident and Form 5001 showing how much withholding tax 
has been paid and what is being reclaimed.
It is of note that after January 2018 there was still a need to file Form 5000 if a non-resident 
individual wanted to have a rate of 12.8% applied to their dividend, in other words there was 
no automatic entitlement to the rate of 12.8%, Mr R had to take action if he wanted that rate 
otherwise a rate of 30% would still be applied to the dividend.
The terms and conditions I have seen dated January 2012 make clear that it is the clients 
obligation to be aware of their tax obligations. Clause 28.1 states:
You have sole responsibility for the management of your legal obligations and tax affairs, 
including making any applicable filings and payments and applying with any applicable laws 
and regulations, including in relation to taxation.
Clause 28.2 states:
We will not provide you with legal or tax adviceIn order to provide you with information 
on our products and services we may explain to you our understanding of the generic legal 
or tax position relating to them. We do not warrant or assume any duty of care to investigate 
into whether or not or to ensure that that the information is complete up-to-date accurate or 
necessarily appropriate to or takes into account fully your circumstances.
Clause 28.3 states:
There may be other taxes or costs that are not paid through us or imposed by us that you 
have to pay in connection with your account. You confirm that you are aware of all legal and 
tax obligations that apply to you arising from the products and services that we provide to 
you and that you will undertake all necessary steps to fulfil these obligations.
Clause 21.10 states:We will collect and receive all income, interest distributions and other payments in respect 
of your assetsIf you are a US national or non-US resident holding US assets we will 
endeavour to collect income under the appropriate reduced rate of withholding tax provided 
that you complete any documentation as may be required under US laws and/or Financial 
Services regulations in the jurisdiction in which we provide services to you under the 
Agreement.
Based on the above I am satisfied that Barclays didnt have any obligation to provide Mr R 
with specific information about the withholding tax payable on dividends for his Orange 
shares or to inform him when the rate for non-resident individuals was changed to 12.8%. I 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect it to do so in any event given withholding tax can 
differ from country to country.
I am satisfied that it was for Mr R to know what he needed to do and the forms he needed to 
provide to either pay the correct rate of withholding tax at the outset or reclaim some of that 
tax if too much was deducted. I have seen nothing that suggests he was aware of what he 
needed to do regarding withholding tax. He seems to have thought it was Barclays 
responsibility to ensure the right tax was payable, when this was always his responsibility.
However, that isnt the end of the matter as it is possible Mr R wouldnt have been able to 
get the lower rate of tax applied in any event because his shares were held in a pooled 
account in the name of a nominee/sub-custodian. I say it is possible he couldnt have got the 
lower rate of tax as I have seen nothing that makes it clear whether he would have been 
entitled to the lower rate if he had filed the right form/s despite the shares being in a pooled 
account.
Mr R argues that Barclays didnt provide him with clear fair and not misleading information 
about the shares being held in a pooled account and the implications of this for withholding 
tax.
Clause 21.6 of the terms and conditions includes the following:
Where we consider it appropriate and in accordance with regulatory requirements your 
Assets may be pooled with those of other clients (including other clients of sub-custodians) 
in an omnibus account. In that case individual client entitlements may not be identifiable by 
separate certificates or other physical documents of title, entries on the register or equivalent 
electronic records.
So, I think the terms and conditions made clear that the shares could be held in a pooled 
account if this is what it chose to do and that in that case that the shares might not be 
separately identifiable. Following this the terms go on to provide some explanation of the 
implications of this for such matters as corporate events.
However, there is no reference to the implications of this for withholding tax. I think Barclays 
should also have made some reference to there being potential consequences of it holding 
assets in a pooled account in the name of a nominee/sub-custodian. I note the 
SmartInvestor terms and conditions (The SmartInvestor terms) I have seen, dated 
September 2018, include the following:
You may be unable to reclaim withholding taxes as your Assets will be held in a pooled 
account.
And clause 4.3 of the SmartInvestor terms includes:If you believe that you are entitled for a reduced rate of withholding tax because of your 
circumstances, you are responsible for applying directly to the tax authorities in the country 
where the withholding tax has arisen to request a refund. Where we hold your Assets in a 
nominee capacity, your tax reclaim request may not be successful in certain jurisdictions 
because of local reclaim procedures.
So, Barclays seems to have also subsequently thought that clients should be made of the 
potential consequences for withholding tax of it holding assets in a pooled account/nominee 
capacity.
However, if Barclays had included general information in its earlier terms and conditions 
about clients possibly not being able to reclaim withholding tax held in a pooled account in 
the name of a nominee/sub-custodian that doesnt mean that Mr R would necessarily have 
taken notice of or acted upon such information.
He wasnt aware of what he needed to do regarding withholding tax in any event, as I have 
already referred to. If he hadnt looked into what he needed to do regarding withholding tax 
in the first place, I am not satisfied that a general statement in the terms and conditions 
about possibly not being able to reclaim withholding tax held in a pooled account in the 
name of a nominee/sub-custodian would have led him to do anything differently.
If holding his shares in a pooled account meant he couldnt have been taxed as a non-
resident individual, the only way he could have paid tax at 12.8% would have been if he had 
found a broker who would have held his shares on his behalf in his name rather than in a 
pooled account in the name of a nominee/sub-custodian. I accept this is a possibility, but I 
am not satisfied it is more likely than not he would have done this based on the information I 
have seen.
So, I think he would have been in the position he has ended up in even if the terms and 
conditions had included a general statement that warned he might not be able to reclaim 
withholding tax.
I appreciate that Mr R may feel that having found Barclays should have provided clearer 
information to him, I have then not awarded anything. But I cant award redress where I think 
his position wouldnt have been any different.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further argument or 
information they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Barclays said it 
had upheld the complaint but didnt have anything further to add. Mr R responded and made 
the following points:
Barclays clearly understood that its terms and conditions were deficient because it 
added the language about withholding tax being affected by holdings being held in a 
pooled investment.
His initial assumption before his first complaint was that Barclays would hold assets 
in a way which automatically allowed the French withholding tax deduction of 12.8% 
to be passed through to him.
Barclays wasnt able to provide details of its paying agent which was a further breach 
of its terms and conditions because it meant he was unable to reclaim withholding 
tax.
In summary Barclays provided a service that disadvantaged the reasonable investor 
because its terms didnt warn of the withholding tax problem which a layperson 
wouldnt be aware of and didnt provide information that would have allowed him to 
reclaim the excess withholding tax.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted the points raised by Mr R in response to my provisional decision. He has said 
that Barclays were aware its terms and conditions were deficient because it changed them. I 
made clear in my provisional decision that I thought Barclays should have included some 
reference to the possibility withholding tax might not be reclaimable if assets were held in a 
pooled account, so I have already made a finding that on this.
Mr R says he assumed that his shares would be held in a way that meant the 12.8% rate 
would be passed through to him. I note his assumption, but I dont think there was a 
reasonable basis for this. I have seen nothing that indicates that Barclays agreed to hold his 
shares in the most tax advantageous way, and I have seen nothing that suggests it was 
required to do so. However, because the way it held the shares could affect a clients tax, I 
think it needed to provide some warning of that possibility as I have already said.
I note what Mr R has said about Barclays not providing the name of the paying agent to 
allow him to reclaim withholding tax. In its response to his complaint Barclays said that it 
received payments from the paying agent on behalf of Mr R but that it was unable to provide 
any additional information about the paying agent. 
I acknowledge what Barclays said about there being no way for the paying agent to 
differentiate between clients individual holdings. I think it is more likely than not this was the 
case given client assets were held in a nominee account. So, I think it is unlikely the paying 
agent would have provided any information to Mr R that would have allowed him to reclaim 
withholding tax even if Barclays had provided the paying agents details. 
Having said that, I also think it is understandable - given that if Mr R wanted to reclaim 
withholding tax the onus was on him to take steps to do this - that he wanted to contact the 
paying agent to see whether he could obtain relevant information. I can see no reason that 
Barclays couldnt have provided that information so that he could have found out for himself 
that the paying agent couldnt assist him. 
In summary, I think Barclays could have provided clearer information both before the 
dividend was paid  namely information about the potential that withholding tax couldnt be 
reclaimed because of the way it held client assets  and after the dividend was paid - in 
relation to contacting the paying agent. But I am not persuaded that if it is more likely than 
not Mr Rs position would have been any different if it had provided clearer information.
Im also mindful that even if withholding tax was reclaimable the process isnt straightforward 
and is time consuming and Mr R may well have decided it wasnt worth the time and effort 
given the amount involved. So, even if I had been provided with some persuasive evidence 
that showed withholding tax could have been reclaimed, I still would not have awarded 
redress based on Barclays paying the amount of withholding tax.
Putting things right
 I upheld the complaint in my provisional decision, but I didnt award anything. On reflection I 
think it is fair and reasonable that Barclays pay Mr R £100 for distress and inconvenience 
caused by not providing him with clear information. 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. Barclays Bank Plc must pay Mr 
R £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman