DRN-2237995
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) sent him inappropriate letters regarding 
his credit card debt.
What happened
Mr F has a credit card account with Santander and in July 2019 he received a letter from 
them advising his account was classified as being in persistent debt. Mr F says he found the 
letter insulting and he not only never missed a monthly payment, had regularly made extra 
monthly payments on top of the minimum required. Mr F received a second letter about his 
credit card and doesnt feel he should receive these going forward. 
Mr F also says that the letters were addressed incorrectly and Santander didnt reply to his 
concerns regarding the level of his minimum payments he makes by way of a direct debit 
each month. 
Santander says that they have a responsibility to issue such automated letters to customers 
whom they feel meet the definition of persistent debt as described by The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Santander says the letter wasnt intended to cause offence, they were 
simply bringing the matter to his attention and providing options to reduce the debt as they 
are obliged to. Santander also apologised for a mistake concerning his address and this has 
now been corrected.
Mr F wasnt happy with Santanders response and feels Santander should stop sending 
these letters and compensate him for his time and inconvenience and referred the matter to 
this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
She felt that Santander acted reasonably sending out the persistent debt letters as part of 
their responsibilities set out by the FCA and didnt feel these letters were intended to be 
offensive. The investigator says that the monthly statements that Mr F receives shows the 
amount of the direct debit to be collected so he should be aware of this. The investigator 
didnt feel Santander had done anything wrong or any compensation was warranted.
Mr F was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking into this complaint I have considered if Santander acted unreasonably when 
they sent letters to Mr F about his credit card account and identifying his account as one of 
persistent debt.  
I can see Mr F thought the letters sent by Santander were insulting and inappropriate given 
the way he has operated his account.  I understand the point Mr F is making here, but these 
letters are a requirement of all banks, including Santander,  following guidance issued by the 
FCA , whom they are regulated by. The reference to persistent debt is defined as when a 
consumer has paid more in interest, fees and charges than theyve repaid towards the 
capital they owe over the previous 18 months.  
These letters are designed to inform customers, in those situations,  of the various options 
available to them to help reduce the cost of their borrowing. From the bank statements I 
have seen while Mr F makes additional payments, from time to time, on top of  his minimum 
monthly payment to his credit card account, it  would still meet this definition - so I cant see 
that Santander were wrong in sending these letters to him and this is what I would expect to 
see here.  
I do understand that Mr F wouldnt have expected to have received a letter like this, given he 
met his monthly payment obligations and it may have come as somewhat of a surprise to 
him to have his account categorised in this way. I would say that it is difficult for banks like 
Santander, to personalise automated letters like these, especially when they are sent to 
large numbers of customers, which would have been the case here.   I am satisfied that the 
letter was not intended to offend but to highlight the options available to Mr F to accelerate 
the repayment of the debt.  The letter was intended to help Mr F reduce the cost of his 
borrowing and this in line with their obligations. I can see another letter was sent in April 
2020 which acknowledged Mr F had increased his repayments which if continued would 
bring him out of persistent debt, this is good to see. 
Mr F says he doesnt want to receive these letters from Santander going forward , but 
Santander are obliged now, and in the future,  to advise Mr F if his credit card remains in the 
definition of persistent debt and of any actions they may have to take in those 
circumstances. I am satisfied that Santander are acting responsibly here and have acted in 
line with their obligations to the FCA. 
As to Mr Fs issue over his direct debit payment not being advised to him,  I have considered 
this, but these payments will change from month to month depending on the level of any 
outstanding balance, which of course can fluctuate from time to time. Santander provide 
details on Mr Fs monthly statement of the amount due and when the minimum monthly 
direct debit payment will be collected , so I am satisfied Mr F would be aware of this. If Mr F 
wishes to change this to a fixed amount for example, he can contact Santander to discuss 
this.  
Mr F says that Santander sent him letters without the correct address details on more than 
one occasion. I can see these letters were received by him and Santander have apologised 
for that and have now correctly amended his address details . Given Mr F received the 
letters despite the incorrect details , I am satisfied that Santanders apology is sufficient here, 
as Mr F hasnt been overly inconvenienced as a result.
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, it follows for the reasons I have given 
before, that I wont be asking anymore of Santander here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman