DRN-4012210
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) wouldnt continue to 
insure him as a driver. Mr M is represented in this complaint by a third party, but Ill refer to 
Mr M throughout.
What happened
Mr M has a motor insurance policy with RSA covering his car. 
In November 2021 RSA told Mr M that it wouldnt be able to renew his policy with him as a 
named driver. 
Mr M wasnt happy about this and he complained to RSA.
RSA didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr M had made a high number of fault claims in 
the previous five years, which was more than it would allow under Mr Ms policy.
Mr M remained unhappy with RSAs decision and brought his complaint to this service. He 
asks that RSA gives him cover again as well as an apology for the delays in telling him and a 
lack of explanation for why it wouldnt cover him. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. She looked at RSAs 
underwriting criteria and said she didnt think Mr M had been treated unfairly.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the file that theres been extensive correspondence from Mr M about various 
aspects of this complaint, and the claims hes made.
Following the view, Mr M has made further comments about RSAs responses to him. I need 
to point out that Im only able to consider aspects of his complaint that have been considered 
by RSA and for which its provided him with a final response. 
If Mr M wishes to make a complaint about these matters, then he needs to raise them with 
RSA. RSA will then consider his complaint and provide him with its final response. If he 
remains unhappy then his complaints may be referred to this service in due course.
But Id like to assure Mr M that Ive read all of the file carefully. I wont refer to all of it here 
and, instead, I will focus on what I think is the crux of his complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint, and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment.
Its my role to look at RSAs actions and see if it has acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with its terms and conditions in its dealings with Mr M. 
RSA has provided evidence to this service that it wont insure customers who have had more 
than a certain number of fault claims in the past five years. 
Its important that I mention that this often doesnt relate to who is at fault for the damage 
that happened, but whether RSA is able to recover its costs from a third party. So it may 
have described Mr M as being at fault for the claims, when he believes he wasnt 
responsible on the road. This is a common approach across the motor insurance 
marketplace.
Mr M has said he doesnt think its fair for RSA to have this criteria. He says he cant see it in 
RSAs policy wording. But a policy wording doesnt contain all of the information an insurer 
might use to assess a customers suitability for cover and RSA has a series of underwriting 
acceptance criteria it will use to do this. In common with other insurance companies, RSA 
will keep this information in-house as itll regard it as commercially sensitive.
Against RSAs criteria for the maximum number of fault claims, I can see that Mr M had 
recorded several more than RSA would consider acceptable. He had more than double 
RSAs maximum.
In its final response to Mr M, RSA said:
In assessing drivers for acceptance for cover we look to achieve an appropriate 
balance between maintaining accessibility to the Scheme and meeting the 
responsibility to Scheme customers to keep the costs as low as possible.
I think its fair for RSA to have acceptance criteria like the ones Ive mentioned above, and I 
dont think RSA has acted unfairly by applying them to Mr M.
I can see Mr M has repeatedly referred to RSAs decision as being a ban or a penalty for 
the next three years and I can understand that Mr M feels particularly aggrieved by this. But I 
dont think its fair to call it a ban. RSA has a set of acceptance criteria and Ive said above 
that I think its applied them in Mr Ms case. In due course he may pass back inside RSAs 
acceptance criteria and be able to use it again for cover. From the information I have, I can 
see RSA continues to cover the vehicle, but not including Mr M as a named driver.
Mr M has said hes able to get cover elsewhere but at a cost of about £3,000 to £3,500. Its 
important that I say insurers have their own rules about how they price an insurance 
premium, and the other companies Mr M has contacted have priced his risk according to the 
information hes given them. As such, those other companies think that price theyll charge is 
a reflection of the risk Mr M brings as a driver.
Mr M has asked that RSA fully investigate claims hes had in the past, and specifically one in 
March 2020 which RSA ultimately settled on a 50/50 liability basis. I can see in the file hes 
talked extensively about this claim and the nature of the collision. Its not the role of this 
service to apportion fault for a claim so Im not going to comment on what happened, but I 
can see that RSA has a section of its policy wording that allows it to make decisions on 
liability at its choice. This is in line with other insurers, and I think its fair that RSA is able to 
do this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman