DRN-2321111
The complaint
Mr P has complained (through a professional representative) the offer made by ReAssure 
Limited to compensate him for unsuitable advice to contract-out of the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) isnt sufficient. He has requested an offer in-line with the 
regulators guidance. 
What happened
Mr P says he took out the policy in 1990 and was advised to contract out of SERPS. 
Through his representative he raised a complaint about this advice. ReAssure looked into 
matters and said whilst they think Mr P was of the right age and earnings for this to be a 
suitable plan for him, it shouldnt have been sold to him. Its investigation concluded it was 
most likely that Mr P already had a contracted-out plan with his employer at the time of sale. 
And that this was evidenced by the fact, it didnt receive any contributions (by way of 
redirected National Insurance Contributions) until after Mr P had left his employers scheme 
in 1994.
ReAssure outsourced the calculation to put things right to an actuarial firm who specialise in 
these matters. And ReAssure relayed these findings to Mr P with an offer of redress. The 
offer was to increase his annuity already in payment, having taken his benefits in 2014, and 
by approximately £150 a year. It also calculated that he was due an additional £568.80 in 
tax-free cash.
Mr Ps representative said this offer was not close to adequately compensating Mr P for the 
loss hed suffered as a result of contracting-out. He said the deduction showing on Mr Ps 
State Pension statement was over £30 a week or £1,600 a year. Whereas the pension 
ReAssure would be paying him would be under £400 a year. Mr Ps representative 
calculates his loss to be somewhere in the region of £30,000 based on this.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought the 
calculation had been done in line with the appropriate guidelines as set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). And that Mr Ps representative hadnt provided any persuasive 
evidence that the calculation was incorrect. Mr Ps representative responded to say the 
retirement date on the calculation wasnt accurate. But the investigator confirmed the correct 
retirement date had been entered in the relevant section of the calculation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think ReAssure have already put forward a fair and reasonable solution to 
put things right, so I wont be upholding this complaint.
Mr Ps initial complaint to ReAssure was that the advice he was given was unsuitable and to 
put things right ReAssure should compensate him in line with the regulators guidance. As 
ReAssure has already accepted the complaint should be upheld, I dont need to consider 
whether the advice was unsuitable.
Had this complaint come to us without an award and we believed it should be upheld, the 
redress would be to carry out a calculation in line with the regulators guidelines. ReAssure 
have already done this. A specialist firm carried out the calculation on its behalf and it has 
provided the calculation and the assumptions used within. Whilst our service doesnt provide 
an actuarial checking facility, I have looked at the inputs and I cant see anything to suggest 
there was a mistake. Mr Ps representative says the retirement date is incorrect, but I can 
see that on the SERPS calculator it has input the correct retirement date. The retirement 
date on the front page is set at the date of calculation, this is so the calculation is run to date. 
I dont think this is an error. 
Given that the calculation has been done by a firm specialising in this area, and it has 
provided the inputs and assumptions that all appear correct, I think its more likely than not 
the calculation has been done in line with the FCAs guidance. I can also see that the 
calculation has been checked and signed off by the firm. 
Mr Ps representatives main reasoning that the calculation is incorrect is based on the 
contracted-out deduction present on Mr Ps State Pension being much higher than the offer 
of redress received. Ive not seen a copy of Mr Ps State Pension statement, but I believe the 
statement just gives an overall figure without further breakdown. The reason this complaint 
was upheld was because it was believed that Mr P was already contracted-out through his 
employer when the policy was sold in around 1990. It wasnt until 1994 when he left the 
employer that contributions were received into the ReAssure plan. ReAssures offer is to 
compensate for the period between the 1994/1995 tax year until the 2000/2001 tax year 
when he was contracted-out with ReAssure. But it appears Mr P was contracted out 
elsewhere before this period and if so, this will have contributed to the deduction in State 
Pension (if this was to be incorrect, then ReAssures basis for awarding redress disappears). 
So comparing ReAssures offer for a part of his contracted-out period against an overall 
deduction wont provide the full picture.
In conclusion, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award. The offer already made by 
ReAssure is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If the offer hasnt already been paid, 
Mr P should contact ReAssure to arrange the settlement if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman