DRN-2598257
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold their mortgage in 1992 as they were 
led to believe their monthly mortgage payment would be fixed for three years, but it then 
went up.
Any reference to Yorkshire Building Society in this decision should be taken to mean the 
previous lender where appropriate. I will simply use Yorkshire Building Society throughout 
for ease.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Due to the fact were dealing with events from 1992 about a mortgage that was paid off in 
2001 Yorkshire Building Society understandably no longer has any information available.
Mrs R and Mr R have said:
We refer to your paragraph stating that the YBS do not have a mortgage application 
form, mortgage offer, or any internal notes. This should not be looked on as a reason for 
not upholding our complaint - to the contrary, it is far too easy for a 'financial giant' to 
avert responsibility by claiming that they do not have any evidence which would support 
our complaint. We have provided legitimate, dated letters between ourselves and the 
Norwich and Peterborough Building Society ( now YBS ), which have been totally 
discarded as insufficient evidence.
But thats not the case. Im sure Yorkshire Building Society would prefer to have that 
information available as, in my experience, that information would likely support Yorkshire 
Building Society, rather than Mrs R and Mr R. Whilst we dont have a copy of the information 
that was provided at the time, generally the full contractual mortgage payment would have 
been quoted and then the lower amount that would be paid due to Mortgage Interest Relief 
At Source (MIRAS) would be quoted separately. There would also have likely been a 
written explanation what MIRAS was.
Its unfortunate that Mrs R and Mr R have kept various letters from that time  such as the 
letter from the branch manager giving details of the mortgage appointment that had been 
booked and enclosing the application form  but not their mortgage offer and other important 
information about the contract theyd entered into. Unfortunately, the letters Mrs R and Mr R 
have kept dont prove that they were misled, or that the fixed rate was mis-sold to them.
Yorkshire Building Society couldnt have known that the government would reduce MIRAS 
so I cant hold it responsible for not warning Mrs R and Mr R about that. The information that 
was given to Mrs R and Mr R when they applied for this mortgage was based on the 
situation at the time. Generally, a fixed interest rate does equate to fixed monthly payments, 
and it would have also done so here had MIRAS not been changed. If Mrs R and Mr R had 
taken a variable rate mortgage instead, their payments would still have gone up with the 
changes to MIRAS; that wasnt limited to fixed rate mortgages.
Mrs R and Mr R took out a mortgage that had a fixed interest rate of 10.4% for three years. 
At the time that was discussed the Bank of England Base Rate (BBR) was 10.38% and had 
recently been as high as 14.88%. The standard variable rate building societies would have 
offered would have been above BBR, and at the time Mrs R and Mr R took their mortgage 
out the average mortgage rate offered by building societies was around 11%. 
It is clear from their submissions that Mrs R and Mr R were concerned about any increase in 
payments  hence them raising this in 1994 when the increase happened  so the advice to 
take a fixed rate doesnt seem inappropriate in the circumstances, albeit that is based on us 
having no real information of the actual sale. It is unfortunate that rates then fell over the 
next few years, but I cant hold Yorkshire Building Society liable for that, as equally rates 
could have increased.
Unfortunately, because Mrs R and Mr R have left it so long to pursue a complaint about this, 
many things are no longer available. I can only order Yorkshire Building Society to do 
something if Im satisfied it did something wrong and Im upholding the complaint as a result. 
As theres nothing to show that Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold this fixed rate to Mrs R 
and Mr R then there are no grounds for me to order it to refund any interest on this mortgage 
that was paid off 20 years ago, however much Mrs R and Mr R may want me to.
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman