DRN-3309096
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G, as trustees of the P G Trust (the trust), complain that AIG Life Limited 
unfairly avoided the late Mr Gs term assurance policy and declined a death benefit claim. 
Mr G and Mrs G, who are represented by a firm of solicitors, are bringing this complaint on 
behalf of a trust. For simplicity, and to distinguish them from the late Mr G, Ill refer to them 
collectively as the trustees, which includes reference to the solicitors. 
What happened
In June 2011 Mr G applied for a Level Term Assurance policy (the policy) with AIG through 
an independent financial advisor (IFA). The policy offered a £300,000 sum assured, payable 
if Mr G died during the policy term. AIG wrote to Mr G after receiving his application, asking 
him to check and confirm the answers he gave on his application. Mr G returned this with 
additional information relating to his driving history that he thought was relevant to his cover. 
Mr G sadly died in July 2020 and a claim was made under the policy. 
In assessing the claim, AIG obtained Mr Gs medical records. On receipt of this information, 
AIG avoided the policy, declined the claim, and returned the premiums paid. It considered 
Mr G had failed to tell it that hed been receiving vitamin B12 injections from a nurse at his 
GP practice before he applied for cover. It also noted hed previously had abnormal Liver 
Function Tests (LFTs) and had been consulting with a Consultant Gastroenterologist due to 
an ongoing gastric problem. The Gastroenterologist had seen Mr G in November 2010 and 
advised him to have a further blood test and a review in a month, which was still outstanding 
at the time of application. AIG said Mr G should have declared this relevant medical history 
in response to several application questions, and specifically:
Apart from in connection with a condition you've already mentioned have you visited a 
medical practitioner or collected any prescription medication in the last 2 years?
The trustees referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They disagreed that 
Mr G had answered the questions incorrectly. They also said that Mr G did disclose his 
vitamin B12 injections to the IFA who helped him complete the application. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that AIG had 
fairly and reasonably demonstrated that Mr G had not provided full and accurate answers to 
the application questions. He was also persuaded that AIG had demonstrated that had it 
known about Mr Gs history it wouldnt have offered him any cover. So, he concluded that it 
was fair for it to avoid the policy and decline the claim. 
The trustees disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. In summary they said: 
a nurse was factually not a medical practitioner and as such insisted that AIG 
couldnt rely on a question that referred to visiting a medical practitioner. They said  
Mr G had also not collected a prescription in the two years before application. 
AIG was seeking to retrospectively use Mr Gs medical records to fit their narrative 
and find ways to avoid paying a valid claim.
AIGs rationale for its decline had changed multiple times.
AIG wouldnt have refused Mr Gs application for cover had it known about his 
vitamin B12 deficiency at the time of application. They noted that Mr Gs ex-wife had 
also taken out cover without declaring her vitamin B12 deficiency. It provided 
evidence to show AIG agreed to reinstate her cover without the need for a GP report 
(GPR).  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to offer my sincere condolences to the trustees and the rest of Mr Gs family. I 
appreciate theyve been through a very difficult time both following Mr Gs death and while 
pursuing the subsequent claim and complaint.  
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this wont be the answer the trustees hoped for. Id like to assure them that 
I havent taken this decision lightly. I realise that the outcome of this complaint could have 
potentially life-changing consequences for Mr Gs family. But I cannot consider a complaint 
on compassionate grounds. I must consider whether AIG has acted fairly and reasonably in 
light of all the circumstances and evidence. While I dont want to add to the familys distress, 
I think they have. Ill explain why.
In considering this complaint, Ive taken account of the relevant rules and regulations  the 
main one here being the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products April 2019 (the code). This follows the Financial 
Ombudsmans longstanding approach to complaints like this. 
In order to reach a decision on this complaint, Ive had to consider carefully whether Mr G 
misrepresented his health at the point of application, and if he did, whether that 
misrepresentation induced AIG to offer cover on terms it otherwise wouldnt have done.
Was there a misrepresentation?
I understand Mr G applied for the policy over the phone with an IFA on 11 June 2011. Ive 
not been provided with a copy of the call recording from the sale. But AIG was not directly 
involved in the sale, and so cant be held responsible if there were any problems with this 
process  including any advice or guidance the IFA may have given when Mr G answered 
the questions. But from my understanding of the complaint, the trustees dont dispute the 
relevant questions were asked. While theyve said Mr G told the IFA about his vitamin B12 
injections they dont dispute that this wasnt included in the application form.
AIG later sent Mr G a letter, which included a copy of his application form so he could check 
and amend the answers provided. We know this was received as Mr G returned it with some 
additional information regarding his driving history that he thought was relevant to AIG. By 
applying for the policy, Mr G accepted a declaration which set out:  
I confirm that the information within the Cover Summary and these application details is 
true, complete and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that if I fail to notify [AIG] of any incorrect or missing information that [AIG] may 
cancel the plan and not pay any claim. 
As such, Im satisfied AIG did enough to draw Mr Gs attention to the importance of 
answering all questions truthfully and accurately, and the potential consequences if he didnt 
do so. 
When completing the application, Mr G was asked a series of questions relating to his health 
and lifestyle. Mr G disclosed that hed been diagnosed with asthma, gastritis and a hiatus 
hernia. But AIG considered he failed to disclose that he had a vitamin B12 deficiency and 
regularly received vitamin B12 injections. It said he also failed to disclose that he was 
awaiting a follow up consultation and blood test with a Consultant Gastroenterologist. It said 
he should have disclosed this in response to the following questions: 
Apart from in connection with a condition you've already mentioned have you visited a 
medical practitioner or collected any prescription medication in the last 2 years?
Are you under routine medical review or awaiting a consultation with a specialist for any 
medical condition? (Examples can include but are not limited to all expected visits to your 
GP, a hospital doctor, consultant, psychiatrist, therapist or other visit to a clinic?)
Are you waiting for a consultation or appointment with a medical practitioner, or do you have 
any symptoms which you intend to seek advice about?
Mr Gs medical records demonstrate that he was diagnosed as having a vitamin B12 
deficiency in 2008. Thereafter he received vitamin B12 injections from a Nurse Community 
Practitioner at his GP surgery at regular intervals. His medical records show he last received 
an injection on 8 March 2011, just over three months before applying for cover. 
I have given very careful consideration to the trustees argument that the term medical 
practitioner refers exclusively to doctors and doesnt include nurses. While they make a 
compelling argument, I dont think I can reasonably reach the same conclusion. 
The trustees have referred to the fact that the General Medical Council (GMC) publishes a 
List of Registered Medical Practitioners, which contains the details of all doctors who are 
registered to practise in the UK. But I dont think this is enough to say in the context of an 
insurance application medical practitioners is a defined term, which can only refer to 
doctors. I think a reasonable interpretation would likely encompass all healthcare 
professionals, and a reasonable person would likely expect this to include individuals such 
as nurse practitioners, such as the one that administered Mr Gs vitamin B12 injections. 
But even if I were persuaded that there was some ambiguity in the question, I would need to 
be satisfied that the ambiguity disadvantaged Mr G in some way when answering the 
questions, and I cant say it did. 
The trustees have said Mr G did in fact disclose his vitamin B12 deficiency to the IFA, but it 
was decided it wasnt relevant. So, it seems Mr G did interpret the question in a way that 
included receiving injections from a nurse. Its unclear why it was decided the information 
wasnt relevant and therefore omitted from the application, but I cant say this was AIGs 
responsibility as it wasnt involved in the sales process. As a financial expert, the IFA should 
have known that if there was any doubt relating to whether a disclosed fact was relevant or 
not, this should have been checked with AIG before proceeding. I cant see this happened. Given Mr G had seen a nurse practitioner for his vitamin B12 injections within two years of 
applying for cover, I think AIG has reasonably concluded he made a misrepresentation by 
answering the relevant question no.
AIG has also said Mr G failed to disclose that he was due a review by his Consultant 
Gastroenterologist (who Ill refer to as Dr M) and follow up blood tests at the time he applied 
for cover. 
A letter from Dr M dated 3 November 2010 says I thought he needed some blood tests [] I 
will review him in about a months time. Theres no evidence that Mr G had a follow up 
appointment with Dr M or further blood tests prior to completing the application in June 2011, 
so it seems they remained outstanding at the point of application. As such, I think AIG has 
reasonably concluded that Mr G failed to disclose that he was awaiting a consultation with a 
specialist or waiting for a consultation or appointment with a medical practitioner. 
In summary, while I appreciate the trustees assertion that Mr G answered the application 
questions honestly and accurately, Im satisfied AIG has reasonably demonstrated that he 
failed to take reasonable care by not disclosing his relevant medical history in response to 
the questions asked. 
What was the impact of the misrepresentation?
The code sets out that the remedy an insurer can apply when it discovers a 
misrepresentation occurs depends on whether it was innocent, careless or deliberate or 
reckless. AIG has treated Mr Gs misrepresentation as though it were careless, and I think 
thats appropriate in all the circumstances. 
Im satisfied the questions AIG posed were sufficiently clear to enable Mr G to answer them 
accurately, the relevant information was also recent enough for him to reasonably recall. 
The code sets out that when its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, 
the insurer can apply a proportionate remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what 
the underwriting decision would have been had the misrepresentation not occurred. It further 
sets out that if the application would have been declined, the insurer can avoid the policy 
from the outset and refund the premiums paid. Im satisfied this is what AIG has done. 
AIG has explained that, had Mr G declared that he was regularly receiving vitamin B12 
injections and was awaiting a follow up blood test and a review by a Gastroenterologist, it 
would have requested a GPR before it could offer cover. It says that a GPR would most 
likely have revealed further relevant details of Mr Gs medical history, including the fact that 
he had a history of abnormal LFTs and had been advised to stop drinking on more than one 
occasion. Ultimately, it would not have offered him any cover. 
I understand the trustees dispute that AIG would have rejected Mr Gs application, as it 
seems AIG may have reached a different decision in respect of another application. But Im 
satisfied, based on the evidence presented, that AIG would most likely have taken the steps 
it has indicated to us had the relevant information come to light at the point of application. 
Overall, while I appreciate this will be deeply disappointing to the trustees, I cant say AIG 
has treated them unfairly, particularly as its actions were in line with the code. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G 
as trustees of the P G Trust to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman