DRN-1896138
The complaint
 Mr D is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 31 January 2020, Mr D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW. Mr D paid an advance payment of £851 and the agreement was for £12,144 over 
48 months; with 47 monthly repayments of £236.77 and a final optional payment of 
£4,007.66. At the time, the car was just over four years old and had done 29,231 miles.
The car had been repaired on the day it was supplied to Mr D as the tracking wasnt properly 
aligned. This was carried out by a garage local to the supplying dealership, and Mr D says 
they chipped one of the alloys when removing a wheel. Two days later, Mr D contacted the 
dealership to complain that the coolant warning light had illuminated, and he was concerned 
there was a coolant leak. 
On 7 February 2020, Mr D contacted the dealership again, complaining that there was a 
humming noise and vibration when the car was driven over 25mph. He also said two of the 
tyres were heavily worn and that the car had damage to the paintwork, and to the upholstery 
on the inside. The dealership agreed to fix the noise, and, on 10 February 2020, they 
replaced a wheel bearing. But Mr D said this didnt fix the issue and he says the dealership 
then told him the noise was a characteristic of the car.
After the dealership attempted repair, Mr D took the car to a local garage who said the 
problem seems to be with the nearside rear wheel - the dealership had replaced the offside 
rear wheel bearing. The garage also said that an aggressive noise and slight vibration was 
not a characteristic of the car. 
On 12 February 2020, Mr D contacted BMW to exercise his short-term right to reject the car. 
BMW said that, because Mr D had accepted a repair, and because there was no evidence of 
a fault, he didnt have the right to reject. Mr D was unhappy with BMWs response, and he 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), a consumer has the 
right to reject within 30 days if it can be shown the goods were of an unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied. The CRA also allows the consumer to agree to a repair within the first 30 
days; and this creates a waiting period from the date of the request until date the repairs 
have been completed. And once the goods are returned, the remainder of the original 30 day 
period will continue. And the consumer still has the right to reject within that period if the 
goods are still faulty.
Given all of this, the investigator said she was satisfied there was a fault with the car, and 
that the attempt at repair made by the dealership had failed. And, because she hadnt seen 
any evidence that the issues Mr D was experiencing were caused by a characteristic of the 
car, she thought that Mr D should be allowed to reject it.
The investigator said that BMW should cancel the agreement and collect the car; refund the 
advance payment Mr D paid, as well as all of the payments hed made (less 25% of the first 
payment to reflect his limited use of the car), plus interest; and remove all information about 
the agreement from Mr Ds credit file. And, as Mr D hadnt been able to use the car since 
February 2020 because of the fault, she also said BMW should pay him £250 compensation 
to recognise the trouble and upset hed been caused.
BMW didnt agree with the investigator. They said the wheel alignment issue had taken 
place before the agreement was entered into; that they werent aware of the issue with the 
coolant; and that Mr D shouldve noticed any cosmetic damage when he test drove the car. 
So they dont feel theyre responsible for any of these issues. With regards to the repair they 
said a minor fault had been fixed by a new wheel bearing being fitted. So they thought the 
repair had been successful, and Mr D didnt have the right to reject the car under the CRA.
The investigator explained the issues with the wheel alignment and coolant level show that 
Mr D was experiencing issues with the car from the outset, but she wasnt asking BMW to do 
anything more in this respect. She remained satisfied there was a fault with the car that was 
still present after a repair had been attempted. She also said that, because Mr D was no 
longer using the car and itd been put into storage, BMW should also provide him with a pro-
rata refund of his car insurance and road tax, plus interest.
BMW didnt respond to the investigator. In September 2020, Mr D needed to start using the 
car again. Because the battery had gone flat while it was in storage, he had to buy a new 
one. Mr D also had the car inspected before he used it, and that inspection confirmed a 
faulty nearside rear wheel bearing, a faulty AC compressor (which was repaired under 
warranty), and water ingress into a fog light. The new battery and the repairs to the car cost 
Mr D £411.46.
Mr D said he was happy to keep the car if BMW paid for the cost of the replacement battery, 
and for the repairs. He also wanted to be reimbursed for the payments hed made for the 
period of time he wasnt using the car. The investigator put this proposal to BMW, but they 
didnt respond. So the investigator revised her recommendation, saying that BMW should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing more to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
Remove information about the agreement from Mr Ds credit file.
Refund the advance payment Mr D paid.
Refund all payments from the start of the agreement to when Mr D started using the 
car again, with the exception of the first payment of which only 75% should be 
refunded to reflect the limited use Mr D had of the car in February 2020.
Refund Mr Ds road tax and insurance payments for the period he wasnt using the 
car  12 February to 5 September 2020.
Reimburse Mr D the £411.16 repair costs hed paid.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above, from the date Mr D made the payments 
to the date of the refund.
Pay Mr D an additional £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused.
Mr D accepted this amended view, but BMW didnt. They offered to refund Mr D the cost of 
the repairs, plus interest, refund the payments for the period of time he wasnt able to drive 
the car, and pay him £300 compensation. Mr D didnt accept this offer and wanted to be able 
to reject the car. So the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Mr D to show that it was present when the car was supplied. So, if 
I thought the car was faulty when Mr D took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
While I can see Mr D had a few issues with the car when he took possession of it, the crux of 
this complaint is the noise and vibration coming from the car when it was driven. So my 
decision will focus on whether this was a fault and, if so, whether the fault made the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality, and if the repair carried out by the dealership fixed the fault.
It's not disputed that, after Mr D complained about the noise coming from the car, the 
dealership replaced the offside rear wheel bearing. This repair took place on 10 February 
2020 when the car had done 29,585 miles  so Mr D had done 354 miles since hed taken 
possession of it. And, in response to his complaint, BMW told Mr D that, after the repair had 
been completed, the trained technicians confirmed that the vehicle is operating as expected 
and within manufacturer guidelines i.e. there is no fault with the vehicle.
But Ive also seen the report from an independent garage who inspected the car on 13 
February 2020  three days after the dealership completed the repairs. This says there was 
a loud droning/humming sound from the rear of the vehicle at speeds between 25 mph  60 
mph the noise was more focussed on the [nearside rear] of the vehicle  the noise after 
60mph sounds more aggressive and a slight vibration is felt. I have driven the same make 
and type of vehicle on different occasions whilst carrying out repairs and the noise heard on 
[Mr Ds] vehicle is most definitely not a characteristic of the vehicle. This report shows the 
mileage at the time was 29,744.
Ive not been provided with a copy of the report from the dealership saying that there were 
no issues after the repair was completed. And BMW havent provided any evidence i.e. a 
report from an independent engineer, that says the repairs were successfully completed 
and/or that the fault wasnt present when the car was supplied to Mr D. And I havent seen 
any evidence that that noise was a characteristic of the car. Because of this, Im satisfied 
that its reasonable for me to rely on the report Mr D obtained.Ive also seen a copy of an invoice dated 30 September 2020. This says work done on the 
car was to investigate bearing noise, check all bearings, supply & replace [nearside rear] 
bearing. The mileage recorded on this invoice was 30,616 miles  the car had done 872 
miles since the independent garage inspected it on 13 February 2020.
When Mr D took possession of the car it was four years old and had done (according to the 
MOT record on 29 January 2020) 29,231 miles. While Id expect some wear and tear in a 
vehicle of that age and mileage, I would expect it to be free from major defects and for it to 
be safe and durable. And I think any reasonable person would expect the car to be safe, 
driveable and without any undisclosed mechanical issues.
Given the above, Im satisfied there was a problem with the nearside rear wheel bearing. 
And the dealership replacing the offside rear wheel bearing didnt fix this. Because of the 
age and mileage on the car, and that Mr D complained about this problem within two weeks 
of taking possession of the car, Im also satisfied the issue was there at the point of supply.
Wheel bearings are a wear and tear issue, and they arent expected to last the lifetime of the 
car. But I dont think that any reasonable person would expect to have to replace the wheel 
bearings after less than 30,000 miles. So, while BMW say this is a minor fault, I actually think 
this is a durability issue  the wheel bearings didnt last as long as they would reasonably be 
expected to. And this makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Where the goods are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows consumers the short-term 
right to reject. It also allows for one chance at repair, and the right to reject if that repair has 
failed. In this instance, based on the evidence Ive seen, the dealership had the chance to 
repair the car, and that repair failed  it didnt fix the faults. So Mr D has the right to reject the 
car. And he should be allowed to do so.
Putting things right
 Mr D shouldve been allowed to reject the car in February 2020. But, as he wasnt, he didnt 
use the car from 13 February (when he had it inspected by the independent garage) until 5 
September 2020. And this is shown by the limited mileage the car had covered between 
inspection and repair. During this time Mr D was using alternative transport as he couldnt 
afford to get a replacement car while he was still paying for this one. So, Im in agreement 
with the investigator that he should be reimbursed for his costs, including the payments he 
made to BMW, while the car wasnt being used.
And Mr D also had to pay for the car to be repaired so he could use it again. And these costs 
included direct costs resulting from the car not being used and in storage  the replacement 
battery and the fog light  costs that wouldnt have been incurred had he been allowed to 
reject the car in February 2020.
Finally, I can see from the emails and calls Mr D sent/made to us, that not having a working 
car was inconvenient and stressful for him. And this was made worse by the amount of time 
BMW took to respond to the investigators views. So I agree with the investigator that BMW 
should pay Mr D some compensation for this.
BMW should now arrange to do the following:
cancel the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car, at no cost to Mr D;
remove the agreement from Mr Ds credit file;refund the £851 advance payment Mr D paid;
refund 75% of the payment Mr D paid in February 2020, to reflect the limited use he 
had of the car at this time;
refund 100% of the payments Mr D paid between March and August 2020, to reflect 
that he wasnt using the car at that time;
upon Mr D producing evidence of these costs, refund him a pro-rata equivalent of his 
road tax and car insurance costs, for the period 13 February to 5 September 2020;
reimburse Mr D the £411.16 repair costs he paid (evidence of these costs has 
already been supplied to BMW);
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above payments, calculated from the date Mr 
D made the payment to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr D an additional £250 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to take off tax from this interest. BMW must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman