DRN-3101926
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly asked 
him to pay charges when a vehicle hed acquired under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) 
was returned at the end of the term.
Mr D is represented by Mrs D.
What happened
Mr D acquired a brand-new car under the HPA in 2017. The HPA was for 48 months. Mr D 
returned the vehicle at the end of the term. He says that on the date the vehicle was 
collected he was told thered be no charges and that everything was in order. He 
subsequently received an email which enclosed the vehicle inspection report.
He noted the vehicle inspection report, completed by B, stated that a second inspection was 
required. He queried this at the time and was told this was standard procedure but thered be 
no charges for anything. He says, because of what he was told, he allowed the car to be 
taken away.
Mr D subsequently got a final inspection report. It said he had to pay over £700 in charges 
and listed various damages to the car. It also said the V5 and the spare key were missing. 
Mr D complained to MBFS about what happened. He said he wasnt present at the second 
inspection and he disputed the charges. He said the V5 had been recorded as present when 
B collected the car and hed been told thered be no charge for the missing spare key.
MBFS investigated his complaint. It acknowledged he shouldnt have been charged for the 
missing V5. It also said the photographic evidence taken during the second inspection didnt 
support the charge applied for damage to the tailgate pad. So, it removed both of these 
charges. But, it said the other charges were applied in line with its Vehicle Return Standards 
(VRS). And, it denied that the damage occurred after the vehicle had been collected. It said 
B was obliged to report to it if any such damage had occurred after collection and nothing 
had been reported. MBFS also considered what Mr D had said about what Bs 
representative had told him on the date the vehicle was collected. It said this individual no 
longer worked for B  so, it couldnt comment any further.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint. She thought it was standard practice to require a second, more detailed 
inspection after the car had been collected. She also viewed the photographic evidence from 
the second inspection. She said there was evidence of a dent to the bumper and the paint 
surface was broken in two places with the scratch being more than 25mm. She was also 
satisfied on balance that the damage to the wheel was over 50mm and was chargeable.
Our investigator thought about the charge for the missing spare key. She was satisfied on 
balance this wouldve been supplied with the vehicle when it was acquired  it was a new 
vehicle. So, MBFS hadnt made any error when it applied its charge for that. She didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr D didnt agree. He said he wasnt present when the second inspection took place and it 
was possible the damage had occurred after the car had been collected. He said there were 
no timed and dated photographs. He also said the first inspector had said thered be no 
charges. He accepted what our investigator said about the spare key.
Our investigator considered what Mr D had said but she didnt change her view. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that it is not unusual for a second inspection to be carried out 
when a vehicle is returned when a HPA ends. In this case the HPA included the VRS. This 
made clear that the VRS inspection would be carried out at the nominated Defleet Centre. 
So, to complete that inspection the vehicle had to be taken to the Defleet Centre. That is 
also in line with what the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association Guide (BVRLA Guide) 
says. 
The BVRLA Guide provides an industry-wide accepted standard that applies when a car is 
returned at the end of an HPA. This makes clear that some leasing companies will collect 
the vehicle and complete a final inspection at a nominated site. It is also the case that the 
first inspection report which was provided to Mr D stated that the vehicle would go through a 
secondary inspection at the Defleet Centre and an invoice showing all charges would be 
sent to him. So, I dont think MBFS acted unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to 
complete a second inspection. 
At the second inspection certain items were listed as damage requiring a damage charge to 
be paid. I agree with what our investigator said about the missing spare key. And, Mr D has 
now accepted that the charge for the missing spare key is acceptable. MBFS has also 
accepted that the charge for the tailgate pad shouldnt have been applied. So, I wont 
comment further about those charges. 
The charges that are the subject of dispute are:
- Wheel left hand front rim damaged; and
- Bumper rear dented.
 
Ive looked at the two inspection reports carried out and the photographic evidence that is 
attached to those reports. Ive also considered what the VRS stated and compared that to 
the information in the BVRLA Guide about what would be acceptable in terms of fair wear 
and tear.
The first inspection report records
Reported Conditions
Wheel LHF  no visible damage Report only  
Bumper Rear  Scratched over 50mm
Within Standard
Bumper Rear Scratched not through top coat
Bumper rear Scratched not through top coat.The photographs attached to the first inspection report show a picture of the left-hand front 
wheel. The angle of the picture makes it difficult to see the extent of damage to the wheel 
rim, but there is some visible damage. This is also visible on the video recording taken 
during the first inspection. So, Im not persuaded, on balance,  that the information recorded 
under reported conditions was correct. The report records that this was a report only and, 
as mentioned above it also recorded that a second inspection would be required.
There are also pictures of the bumper which shows that there is scratching which exceeds 
50 mm. The scratch seems to have penetrated the paint such that the paint surface has 
broken and a dent is visible. There are also two photographs showing another scratch to the 
bumper which is about 10mm long and where the scratch has penetrated to the base metal.
Ive then looked at the second inspection report and the photographs attached to it. It 
records
Reported Conditions
Wheel LHF Rim damaged 50mm
Bumper rear Dented 50mm to 100mm
The photographs of the wheel are taken from a different angle when compared to the first 
inspection report. Scraping to the alloy is visible and there is also visible damage to the alloy 
rim. The note recorded on the picture states Rim damaged.
The VRS states that minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the alloy or steel rim edge is 
acceptable. The BVRLA Guide states that dents on wheel rims and scuffs over 50mm on the 
total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are unacceptable. Having looked at 
both inspection reports and the photographic evidence provided, Im satisfied on balance 
that there was damage to the rim of the alloy. The photographs provided do not include a 
measure of the extent of the damage. But, it extends along the full width of one of the alloy 
spokes. So, Im satisfied it exceeds 50mm. The extent of the damage is outside of what was 
considered acceptable fair wear and tear under both the VRS and the BVRLA Guide. For 
that reason, I think the charge for the damage to the wheel is fair and reasonable.
Pictures of the rear bumper taken during the second inspection also show the dent that was 
present at the first inspection. The VRS stated dents to the bumper were not acceptable. 
The BVRLA Guide says that dents of more than 15mm in diameter are not acceptable. The 
dent in the photograph exceeded 15mm. The measure in the photograph at both the first and 
the second inspection indicates that the dent was approximately 100mm in diameter. So, Im 
satisfied that the charge invoiced for the dent to the bumper was also fair and reasonable.
Ive thought about what Mr D told us about not being present for the second inspection. But, 
given what Ive said here about the photographic evidence taken at both the first and the 
second inspections, I dont think his presence at the second inspection wouldve changed 
the outcome.  
Ive also thought about what he told us concerning the opinions he says the inspector 
expressed during the first inspection and the assurances he says he was given. I can 
understand why he was annoyed when those assurances turned out to be unreliable. But, as 
mentioned above, MBFS was permitted under its terms and conditions to carry out a detailed 
second inspection at its Defleet Centre. That was in the terms and conditions Mr D signed 
when he acquired the vehicle and it was also recorded on the first inspection report. So, 
although I know it will disappoint Mr D, I dont require MBFS to have to do anything further 
here to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman