DRN-4051565
The complaint
A limited company S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent the 
loss it suffered when it sent money to a Barclays account as the result of a scam.
Mrs T is a director of S and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. On 9 June 2022 S sent a payment for 
$43,831.10 from its own bank N (which is based outside the UK). At the time S believed it 
was making a payment to settle an invoice. The payment arrived in a Barclays account 
where it credited as £34,284.94. S later realised that a scammer had used a very similar 
email address to who it expected the invoice from and that it had been tricked into making 
the payment. 
S reported this to its own bank and also contacted Barclays. Barclays returned around $8 
that theyd been able to recover from the account. S complained to Barclays and wanted the 
rest of its money to be returned. But ultimately Barclays said they hadnt made any mistakes 
and declined to do more. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary she didnt think Barclays had caused the loss. S 
still disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for S, so Ill explain why. 
Whilst I accept that S has been the victim of a scam, that doesnt automatically entitle it to a 
refund from the bank that received its funds. It would only be fair and reasonable for me to 
direct Barclays to pay anything if I think they are responsible for causing the loss (or part of 
it) or hindering its recovery. 
Im satisfied that Barclays correctly followed its process when opening the account in 
question. There wasnt anything at that time where I think they reasonably could have known 
the account they were opening would later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or 
scam. So, I dont think Barclays could have prevented S loss in relation to the opening of the 
account. 
Mrs T has questioned why S payment was credited to the account when the information 
included with the payment instruction showed it was intended for someone other than the 
accountholder. The relevant regulations (Payment Services Regulations 2017, PSRs), say 
that a payment is correctly processed if it goes to the unique identifier provided. The unique 
identifier is generally the sort code and account number or IBAN. There may be many 
customers with the same or similar names, but each account will have a unique number for 
the purposes of routing a payment. And Barclays werent obliged to check any of the 
additional information provided with the payment instruction. So, whilst I understand the 
point Mrs T is making, in these circumstances, I cant say Barclays did anything wrong when 
processing the payment and applying it to the recipient account in line with the IBAN 
provided. 
Ive also seen the statements for the account that received S payment since it was opened 
until after the money had been transferred out. And given the type of account and the way in 
which the money left it, I dont think this was so suspicious or indicative of potential fraud 
such that Id have expected Barclays to have done more. So I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong in relation to its monitoring of the account that caused S loss. 
And by the time Barclays were notified that S payment had been made as a result of a 
scam, they were only able to recover around $8 which has since been returned to S. Im 
satisfied that this is all Barclays were able to recover at the time.
Im of course sorry to hear that S has been the victim of a scam. But as I dont think Barclays 
are responsible for failures in relation to that loss, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I 
can direct them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman