DRN-4119051
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc blocked her account which prevented direct debit 
payments being taken.
What happened
Mrs E says Santander blocked her account in June 2022 which in turn meant direct debit 
payments were not taken. She says that led to late payment markers being applied to her 
credit file. Mrs E says she was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of what took 
place and would like appropriate compensation as well as her credit file updated to remove 
the adverse information.
Santander says it made a mistake by applying the wrong type of account block. It has 
apologised and says the block was removed after about a month. It also says it has provided 
a letter to confirm it was responsible for the mistake, which could be provided to the direct 
debit recipients. Santander says it has paid Mrs E £200 compensation which it says she 
accepted. It says it will pay any costs incurred by Mrs E as a result of the mistake if she 
provides evidence.
Mrs E brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought Santander had acted fairly 
by apologised and paying an appropriate compensation amount.
Mrs E doesnt accept that view and says she has paid late payments fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Santander has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying an appropriate compensation amount and by apologising.
There is no dispute here that Santander made a mistake by blocking Mrs Es account which 
meant her scheduled direct debit payments were not made. I can see the problem took just 
over a month to sort out. I have no doubt Mrs E was caused inconvenience and frustration 
and would have spent some time trying to resolve matters. I also accept Mrs E would have 
needed to make manual payments which would have also caused inconvenience.
Im satisfied that Santander has fairly apologised for what took place and fairly wrote a letter 
which Mrs E could have presented to those affected by the mistake to confirm it was not her 
fault for the failed direct debit payments. Im also satisfied Santander paid what I think is a 
fair and reasonable compensation amount of £200. I think that award fairly reflects the level 
of Santanders mistake and its impact on Mrs E. I appreciate Mrs E says she suffered a 
financial loss, but I have not seen any evidence of such a loss. I have also not seen Mrs Es 
credit file and so cant fairly conclude that there was any adverse information recorded on it 
as a result of what took place.
I can see Mrs E accepted Santanders compensation offer and dont think it clear what Mrs E 
says Santander should do in addition to paying compensation, providing the letter and in 
apologising.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander has acted fairly after accepting its mistake. I can see its 
fairly offered to pay any expenses Mrs E has incurred as a result of what took place. No 
doubt Mrs E will provide evidence to Santander of any expenses or costs she wishes to 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman