DRN-3364406
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the actions of Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money when he 
was tricked into transferring money as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In March 2021 Mr Z was sadly the victim of 
a scam. He was tricked, by a scammer, into believing he was investing in a cryptocurrency 
by someone he became romantically involved with online. Mr Z made multiple transfers from 
his Virgin Money account in March 2021 to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange  totalling 
£237,000. He also sent around £46,000 towards the same scam from an account he held 
with another Bank, Ill refer to here as C. 
The fraud was reported to Virgin Money in April 2021. It contacted the cryptocurrency 
exchange, but it didnt receive a reply. Mr Z also transferred the remaining funds he held in 
his account with the cryptocurrency exchange back into his Virgin Money account. After 
reporting the fraud to C, Mr Z received a full refund of the money he had sent from that 
account. But Virgin Money said it didnt do anything wrong when allowing Mr Z to send the 
money from his account. It said the first payment for £2,500 Mr Z sent was flagged and a 
conversation took place over the telephone. And during this conversation Mr Z said he would 
be sending more money to the cryptocurrency exchange. 
Mr Z remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said Virgin Money 
didnt do enough to stop the payments and that at the time he was vulnerable because he 
was going through a difficult divorce. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Virgin Money 
couldve asked more probing questions and provided a fraud and scams warning after it 
flagged the first payment. But he didnt think this wouldve made a difference here because 
Mr Z was told about the investment from someone he trusted at the time. So, he didnt think 
this wouldve stopped Mr Z from losing his money.  
Mr Z disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. In summary he said his 
payments should fall under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) due to the press 
releases and statements Virgin Money had made saying it would bear the CRM in mind 
when considering scam payments before it signed up to the CRM in July 2021. He said that 
Virgin Money didnt ask him any questions, unlike C, despite him sending a very large sum 
of money over thirteen payments, and if it had this wouldve stopped the scam. He added 
that he was vulnerable at the time of the scam due to his physical and mental health and his 
personal circumstances which led to him being trapped by the romance scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr Z has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr Z has said that Virgin Money had released press statements stating it would treat any 
scam claims from its customers with the CRM in mind for any payments that occurred before 
it joined the CRM. But it didnt join the CRM until after Mr Zs payments. And even though I 
accept Virgin Money released statements that it would keep the CRM code in mind when 
considering whether to refund payments, this doesnt mean I agree that it should consider 
Mr Zs payments within the CRM. And that doesnt mean that Virgin Money not considering 
Mr Zs payments in line with the CRM is unfair. The Financial Ombudsman will only look at 
the CRM when the payments that took place as a part of a scam were made after the bank 
joined that scheme because the CRM isnt retrospective. And using the date a bank joined 
the CRM enables this service to provide a fair and consistent approach when considering 
complaints such as this. So, Im not going to consider Mr Zs payments under the CRM here. 
It is common ground that Mr Z authorised the scam payments totalling £237,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mr Z was the victim of a scam. He 
provided valid instructions through his online banking. So, although it wasnt his intention to 
pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the 
terms of his account, Mr Z is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Virgin Money to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Virgin Moneys first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr Z provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Virgin 
Money to intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before 
processing it. Id also expect Virgin Money to provide suitable warnings about common 
scams to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the 
payment. There might also be cases where its appropriate for Virgin Money to refuse to 
follow the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a 
fraud or scam. 
Mr Z has said that Virgin Money failed to ask him probing questions and if it had he said the 
scam wouldve stopped. This is because he said C asked him questions on 19 & 23 March 
2021 when he made payments of £25,000 and £21,325 to the same scam. And this made 
him stop and think about the scam, with Mr Z saying these calls made it difficult for him to 
continue making payments.  
Here Virgin Money flagged the first payment Mr Z made towards this scam and asked him to 
call its helpline so the payment could be released. A discussion took place and Mr Z was 
asked if he was happy with how hed been contacted about the payment details, whether 
hed had any unusual requests to make the payments by phone or email, and whether hed 
verified the validity of the payee with a trustworthy source. I agree with the investigator and 
Mr Z that Id expect Virgin Money to ask more probing questions than the ones Mr Z was 
asked. But it doesnt automatically follow that Virgin Money should be held liable for all the payments he made. So, I need to consider what wouldve happened if Virgin Money had 
asked more probing questions, in line with our approach, and whether this wouldve made a 
difference. 
Ive considered everything Mr Z has provided carefully, but even if more questions had been 
asked and a clear fraud and scams warning were provided, I dont think this wouldve 
stopped the scam. Thats because this wasnt a typical investment scam where a customer 
is contacted by a scam investment company and given investment advice where the bank 
can ask questions about the investment company or conduct its own research into that 
company on the FCA database. Unfortunately, here there was a romance scam element 
which leads me to believe, in response to more probing questions, Mr Z wouldve told Virgin 
Money hed been told to invest in the cryptocurrency by someone he trusted and that hed 
completed his own research into that investment. 
Thats because, I note Mr Z said he had more than one conversation with C about the 
payments he made from his other account towards this scam. During the call with Virgin 
Money he said he was planning on making more payments and he queried whether those 
payments would also be stopped. I think this shows that he trusted the investment advice 
hed been given as he was prepared to send a large amount of money to the cryptocurrency 
exchange. And Mr Z himself said that C made it difficult for him to send the money he 
wanted to, therefore he returned to make one more payment (£10,000) from his Virgin 
Money account on 30 March 2021. As a result, Im not satisfied a clear fraud and scams 
warning wouldve made a difference here. Mr Z has said he received two warnings from C 
late on in the scam, when he had already sent a considerable amount of funds, but both 
payments were sent which means Mr Z was still happy to make them. He then returned to 
Virgin Money later to make another payment because he said it was easier to do so. 
I note Mr Zs mentioned his personal circumstances and health made him vulnerable at the 
time. I appreciate Mr Z was going through a difficult period with his physical and mental 
health. However, Ive not seen any evidence that Virgin Money was aware of this at the time 
of the scam and shouldve therefore acted differently. 
As a result, Im not satisfied probing questions and a clear scam warning wouldve made 
Virgin Money suspicious nor do I think Mr Z wouldve considered the person he was 
exchanging messages with was scamming him when he was making the payments. 
Otherwise the scam wouldve stopped when Mr Z made the first payment through C and 
received the fraud and scams warning. 
Its also for the above reasons that I think if Virgin Money had stopped any of the later and 
larger payments, I believe the outcome wouldve more than likely been the same as when 
Mr Z made the two payments through C  the payments wouldve more likely than not been 
made despite any warnings or reasonable level of questioning. 
Ive considered whether Virgin Money acted reasonably when Mr Z made it aware of the 
scam. Ive seen that Virgin Money did contact the cryptocurrency exchange but didnt 
receive a response. So, Im satisfied Virgin Money did what it should and attempted to see if 
there was any money that could be recovered. But because the account was in Mr Zs name, 
and hes confirmed he made a withdrawal at the end of March 2021 of the remaining funds, 
it was unlikely that Virgin Money would be able to reclaim any more of his money here. 
Mr Z has asked why C refunded the money he sent from another account in full but Virgin 
Money didnt. I dont know why C decided to refund Mr Z as thats a decision that was made 
by another bank. As Ive already mentioned, Virgin Money hadnt signed up to the CRM like 
C, at the time Mr Z made the payments. So, I cant ask Virgin Money to make a refund to 
him under the CRM here. And I cant ask Virgin Money to make a refund to him because C has. I can only assess the evidence in relation to the payments Mr Z made from his Virgin 
Money account and what steps, if any, Virgin Money couldve taken to stop him sending 
money to this scam and to recover his money. 
I appreciate my decision leaves Mr Z in a difficult position and that he has lost a lot of money 
to this scam. And Im sorry to hear about his circumstances and the effect the scam has had 
on him. But, for the reasons Ive explained Im not going to ask Virgin Money to do anything 
more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman