DRN-3834165
Complaint
Ms W has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable, would like the interest to 
be removed and for her dad to be released from his obligations as her guarantor.
Background
George Banco provided Ms W with a guarantor loan for £14,500.00 in July 2019. This loan 
had an APR of 36.87% and a term of 48 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £25,794.24, including interest, fees and charges of £11,294.24, was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £540. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ws complaint and she thought George Banco hadnt 
treated Ms W unfairly when providing this loan. So she didnt think that Ms Ws complaint 
should be upheld. Ms W disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman decision.
My provisional decision of 22 November 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 22 November 2022 - setting out why I intended to 
partially uphold Ms Ws complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide 
a summary of my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Ms Ws 
complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I thought that there were two overarching 
questions that I needed to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ws complaint. 
These two questions were:
1. Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Ms W wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I started out by considering the first of these questions.
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms W 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
I explained that George Banco provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required George 
Banco to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms Ws ability to make the 
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so George Banco had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms W. In 
practice this meant that George Banco had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Ms W undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for George Banco to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms W. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for George Banco to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Ms W, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Finally I then explained that there could also be other factors which could influence how 
detailed a proportionate check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not 
limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
Having highlighted all of this, I then thought about these matters in the relation to the facts of 
Ms Ws case.
Were George Bancos checks reasonable and proportionate?
George Banco said that Ms W completed an online income and expenditure assessment. It 
then ran a number of automatic checks against the details Ms W provided. These checks 
ensured Ms W met its initial lending criteria and included a credit check before a George 
Banco agent then had a telephone call with Ms W.George Bancos credit checks showed that Ms W was already significantly indebted. Indeed 
George Bancos own agent even questioned why Ms W had taken so much credit out in the 
months leading up to this loan. It was also my understanding that Ms W had an existing 
guarantor loan with another provider. 
I thought that George Banco may have said that it asked Ms W to confirm whether she had 
another guarantor loan elsewhere. But this wasnt in fact what the agent asked Ms W. What 
the agent actually asked Ms W was whether she had a guarantor loan with another company 
in the Everyday Lending group and I thought that she accurately answered no to this 
question.
Furthermore, the income information George Banco obtained suggested that Ms W had a 
monthly income of £4,800.00. However, I thought it important to highlight that the relevant 
rules in CONC are in place to protect consumers. And, it was my view, that the fact that 
regulated lenders are required to exercise reasonable care and skill, have clear and effective 
processes in place to assess affordability and also take adequate steps to check and verify 
the information provided by a customer all pointed to there being an expectation that a firm 
shouldnt simply rely on what it is told by a prospective borrower, about matters regarding 
income and expenditure. I referred to CONC 5.2A.16G which I thought supported this and 
which states:
For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC 5.2A.15R, it is not 
generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
I was satisfied that George Banco did take steps to confirm that Ms W worked where she 
said she did by contacting her employer by phone. But I couldnt see that it took any steps to 
verify that she actually earned £4,800.00 a month. Ive saw what George Banco had said 
about relying on credit reference agency information regarding the funds going into Ms Ws 
account to cross reference her declaration of income. But George Banco knew Ms W was in 
a significant amount of debt and as the account was in receipt of significant amounts of 
borrowed credit any such cross-referencing of Ms Ws declared income in this way had a 
much higher margin for error. 
I was also concerned how George Banco decided that it didnt need to formally verify Ms Ws 
declared income of £4,800.00 a month, despite the amount of debt she already had and her 
needing to borrow approaching £15,000.00 on such disadvantageous terms while also 
involving a guarantor. It was my view that given what George Banco did know about Ms Ws 
financial circumstances, it ought to have taken more formal steps to verify Ms Ws income 
before lending to her. 
I was also mindful that the purpose of this loan was recorded as consolidation. And George 
Banco had confirmed that it didnt have a list of the creditors whose balances would be 
consolidated along with the respective amounts that would be cleared. This was despite it 
confirming that this information being recorded was part of its usual process when providing 
a loan for debt consolidation purposes. So, in these circumstances, it was unclear to me how 
George Banco could have had an idea of what Ms Ws spending commitments would be 
going forward.
 
Given all of this, I was satisfied that there were a number of unanswered questions that 
George Banco needed to address before it would have been reasonable to proceed with this 
loan. As George Banco didnt take additional steps to verify Ms Ws income and expenditure 
in these circumstances and instead chose to rely on, what at face value, appeared to be an over optimistic calculation of her monthly disposable income, I was minded to find that 
George Bancos checks before providing Ms W with this loan werent reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to George Banco that Ms W 
would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I couldnt say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I needed to decide whether it was more 
likely than not that a proportionate check would have told George Banco that Ms W wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Ms W had provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for this loan. I accepted different checks might well show different things. And just because 
something showed up in the information Ms W provided, it didnt mean it wouldve shown up 
in any checks George Banco mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from George Banco showing what this information would 
have shown, I thought it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on it as an indication of what Ms Ws financial circumstances were more 
likely than not to have been at the time.
I then went on to set out that George Banco was required to establish whether Ms W could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might have been an indication that a consumer could sustainably 
make the repayments. But, in my view, it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. 
And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it 
followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that they 
were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
I carefully considered the information Ms W provided in light of all of this. 
The information I had been provided with showed that Ms Ws income was substantially less 
than what shed declared to George Banco. The information provided also showed that           
Ms W had a loan with another guarantor provider. Finally, it also indicated that Ms W was 
already borrowing from a number of other unsustainable sources such as other high-cost 
lenders. 
I did acknowledge George Bancos argument that the purpose of this loan was debt 
consolidation and that this would reduce Ms Ws outgoings. But as there was no indication of 
which debts Ms W was going to consolidate, despite this being George Bancos usual 
process, it was unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially 
how this was going to improve Ms Ws already precarious financial position going forward.
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Ms W would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering significant adverse 
consequences. 
With this in mind, I concluded this section of my provisional decision by confirming my 
intention to find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have 
alerted George Banco to the fact that it shouldnt have provided this guarantor loan to Ms W. I then went on to consider the second of the overarching questions then Id set out earlier in 
my provisional decision.
Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms W in some other way?
I explained that Ms W had complained about three other matters in addition to the 
affordability of her loan. 
In first instance, Ms W said that she was led to believe that her guarantor may be removed 
from her loan and her interest rate lowered if she maintained her payments. I listened to the 
calls Ms W had with George Banco and it was clear that it was Ms W who said that she read 
about the possibility of her guarantor being removed and receiving a lower interest rate for a 
good payment history. 
However, George Bancos agent responded by saying that he wasnt aware of the possibility 
of Ms Ws guarantor being removed from her loan. And he also said that Ms Ws loan was 
already being arranged on the lowest rate of interest that George Banco offered. Therefore, I 
found it difficult to see how Ms W could have been left with the impression that the interest 
rate on her loan would be lowered or that her guarantor would be removed in the event she 
had a good repayment record. And I wasnt persuaded that Ms W was treated unfairly in 
respect of this matter.
Ms W had also said that she wasnt told that most of her payments would go towards 
interest, rather than the amount she owed, in the early part of the term. I started my 
consideration of this matter by explaining that all loans  irrespective of whether interest was 
added upfront or on a daily basis - are based on an amortisation schedule where each 
instalment due is made up of some of the interest and charges and some of the capital 
advanced. And on more expensive loans  such as Ms Ws - the higher interest rate usually 
meant that even though a monthly payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the 
amount borrowed - a much smaller proportion of this payment goes to repaying the capital in 
the early stages.
So many consumers in Ms Ws position may be left with the impression that they had paid 
off more of their loan than they actually had done due to the cash amount of the total 
payments made, because they were unaware of the way that their loan would be amortised 
and a large proportion of the early payments were going towards the interest. 
I did accept that Ms W did ask George Bancos agent how her settlement figure would be 
calculated in the event she wished to settle her loan after two years rather than the initially 
agreed four year term. However, George Bancos agent confirmed that he didnt know and 
this was a matter that Ms W had to discuss with the settlement team.
Given Ms W did indicate that she may wish to settle the loan early, I thought that there was 
an argument for saying that the agent ought to have found out about the early settlement 
terms and drawn them to Ms Ws attention prior to bringing about this agreement. Although 
in reality the terms operated in much the same way as they did on any loan and it was the 
fact that a loan with such a high rate of interest might not be suitable for a customer looking 
to settle early that maybe could have been pointed out. 
That said, given my findings on the affordability of Ms Ws loan, I was satisfied that 
irrespective of Ms W may have said, she was never in a position to settle the loan in full after 
two years. So I was satisfied that Ms W didnt, in any event, lose out as a result of not being 
provided with clearer information on the early settlement terms, amortisation schedule of her 
loan and wasnt told that it may not be suitable for someone who was looking to settle early.Finally, Ms W was unhappy that George Banco took payments from her guarantor when she 
was having difficulty making them. 
I was sorry to hear that Ms W found making the payments difficult and I didnt think that was 
surprising considering my finding that the monthly payments werent affordable to begin with. 
That said, the nature of Ms Ws (and her guarantors) agreement with George Banco meant 
that it was entitled to approach Ms Ws guarantor for payment whenever she didnt, or even 
wasnt able to, make her repayments. 
I had noted that Ms W even confirmed that this is how she understood her loan would work 
during the process of her application and that her guarantor would even be responsible for 
the entire loan should she end up insolvent. So while I sympathised with the position Ms W 
found herself in, I didnt think that George Banco acted unfairly in approaching her guarantor 
for payment when it did.
Furthermore, I had also seen that Ms W had asked for her guarantor to be released from his 
obligations as part of her complaint. But I explained that Im only able to make an award or 
direction in favour of a complainant. Ms Ws guarantor wasnt a complainant in this case 
although he may well have had his own right to complain should he have been unhappy at 
being accepted as a guarantor. And this meant that if Ms Ws guarantor thought that George 
Bancos actions in previously asking him for payment and potentially asking him to make 
more in the future were unfair, then this was a matter that he needed to take up with George 
Banco in the first instance. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was minded to find that George Banco didnt 
also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms W in some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out earlier on 
in my provisional decision, I concluded by saying that it was my intention to issue a final 
decision which found that:
George Banco didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
Ms W would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way;
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown George Banco that Ms W 
simply wasnt in a position to be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way; 
George Banco didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms W in some other 
way.
The above findings left me provisionally concluding that George Banco acted unfairly and 
unreasonably towards Ms W when providing this guarantor loan to her in July 2019.
Did Ms W lose out as a result of George Banco unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Ms W had paid and was still being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, I was satisfied that she had lost out as a result of 
what George Banco did wrong. 
So I then set out a method of calculating compensation which I thought addressed George 
Bancos shortcomings and Ms Ws resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decisionGeorge Banco confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it didnt have 
anything further to add.
Ms W confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision and that she had nothing further 
to add either.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. And in particular Im 
pleased to see that the parties have accepted my findings. 
As the parties have agreed with the findings I reached in my provisional decision and in it I 
set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Ms Ws complaint, Ive not been persuaded 
to alter my conclusions. 
So Im still upholding Ms Ws complaint. And I remain satisfied that George Banco needs to 
put things right. 
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Ms W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ws complaint for George Banco to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments Ms W made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£14,500.00 originally lent. George Banco should treat any payments made should 
the new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should 
be refunded to Ms W;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms W to the date of settlement;
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, George 
Banco should remove any adverse information it recorded on Ms Ws credit file as a 
result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision of 22 November 2022, Im 
upholding Ms Ws complaint. Everyday Lending Limited need to put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman