DRN-2364988
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as U complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked two 
international payments and its account. 
Ms K, who is a director of U, brings the complaint on Us behalf. Shes also unhappy about 
the service she received when she contacted Santander.
What happened
On 16 September 2019, Ms K tried to make a payment for $5,000 USD to her supplier in 
Dubai. Santander blocked the payment and Us account whilst it reviewed the transaction.
Santander asked Ms K to attend branch with identification, which she did on 18 September 
2019. Following this Ms K phoned the bank on several occasions, but on each occasion the 
bank told her it couldnt provide her with much information. Santander completed its review 
and removed the block on 26 September 2019.
On 2 October 2019, Ms K tried to make another payment to her supplier for $5,500 USD. 
Santander blocked the payment again and reviewed the transaction. Whilst it completed the 
review it blocked Us account. The block was removed on 10 October 2019. 
Ms K says U hasnt been treated fairly and has suffered financial losses, in the region of 
£3,000 because she had to pay fines for delays. Shes also said that Santander didnt return 
calls and when she did speak to Santander, staff were rude, unpleasant and didnt show her 
any empathy. Shes also said that incoming credits to her account bounced and U lost 
around a dozen clients. In summary, she says:
The transactions were legitimate payments to Us supplier in Dubai and Santander 
shouldve given U the opportunity to evidence that. But Santander failed to give a 
reason for its concerns.
Santander wasnt entitled to block the payments as it did. Prior to the transactions, 
Ms K told Santander, U would be making payments to Dubai, so it was aware of the 
expected payments. And she wasnt told this would cause any problems. This cost U 
time and money, as it had to deal with Santander, suppliers and unhappy clients. And 
make alternative arrangements to send money to Dubai.
Santander took too long to complete its checks and unblock Us account
Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong. And had blocked the payments to comply with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. Unhappy with this response Ms K brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong when it blocked Us 
account. But she said Santander could have provided Ms K better service and said 
Santander should pay Ms D £150 compensation. In short, she said:
Santander had been entitled to block Us account and review the payments in 
question in order to fulfil its legal and regulatory obligations. And it wasnt required to 
give details or reasons of this review to U.
Santander had completed its reviews as quickly as possible and she didnt think the 
bank had caused any delays. She said Us account hadnt been blocked for several 
weeks as suggested by Ms K
Santander didnt remove the block to Us online banking until 27 September 2019. 
This caused Ms K inconvenience. So, she said Santander should pay Ms K £50 
compensation. 
Santander didnt provide Ms K with a call back and incorrectly told her credit would 
be able to paid into her account  this wasnt the case. So, she said Santander 
should pay Ms K £100 compensation.
Overall, based on the calls she listened to, she hadnt found Santander were rude, 
unpleasant or unhelpful when Ms K called the bank. 
Santander accepted the investigators view. Ms K didnt. She was concerned that 
investigator had not required Santander to justify its actions and maintained that it had not 
been entitled to act as it had. She said that the investigator was biased in favour of the bank 
and the compensation offered doesnt reflect the amount of trouble and upset shed been 
caused. So, she asked that an ombudsman review the matter, and it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I agree with the investigators assessment, and for similar 
reasons. 
The investigator noted that Ms K has made a number of quite detailed submissions and also 
sought answers to her questions about the nature of Santanders review. Like the 
investigator, Ive considered all of these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each 
and every point that Ms K has made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine her 
complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I 
consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that 
Ms K and the bank have said before reaching my decision. 
Ill deal first with Ms Ks submission that the investigator has simply sided with the bank 
when looking at her complaint with the implication being Santander is influencing our 
conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise her concern, as an ombudsman service 
our approach is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent 
conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Ms K does not 
agree with our view, she does not have to accept it, and if she does not accept this final 
decision, she will be free to continue to pursue her concerns by other means should she 
wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise her on how to go about doing that.
Looking firstly at the banks block and review of the two payments U asked the bank to 
make. Theres little I can add to what the investigator has already said here. Santander was 
within its rights to stop payments  both into and from Us account  if it felt it needed further 
clarification. And it had to make certain checks to comply with its regulatory obligations.  
Santander was also within its rights to suspend Us accounts while it carried out those 
checks.
I appreciate Ms Ks frustration that she feels U was denied the opportunity to make its case 
by Santanders refusal to disclose its reason for the reviews and blocks. And I can see that 
Ms K rang the bank in excess of sixty occasions to try and find out what was happening. But Santander wasnt required to provide this information, so I dont think it did anything wrong 
here.
Ms K has said that Santander took too long to complete the reviews. And said that Us 
account was blocked for several weeks. I dont agree. From looking at how long things took I 
can see that both blocks were removed after around eight days. I dont consider this to be 
unreasonable. And whilst I can appreciate this caused U inconvenience, Im satisfied the 
bank completed the reviews in a timely manner. And I do not consider that it would be right 
for me to conclude it should not have taken in excess of any particular or specific timeframe. 
Because the bank was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it did.
I also understand Ms K believes the due to discussions she had with Santander prior to the 
transactions, where she says that she told the bank that U would be sending payments to 
Dubai, meant it wasnt entitled to question or block the payments. I dont agree with that. I 
wouldnt expect Santander to have completed all its compliance checks before the 
transactions, and I cant see that it gave Ms K any assurance to that effect. 
I appreciate of course that Santanders actions caused both Ms K and U real inconvenience. 
Ms K has also said U incurred fines because the payments to its suppliers were delayed. 
And she was without funds for everyday expenses due to the block. It wouldnt be 
appropriate however, to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe the 
bank acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did.
However, I can see that Santander did make a mistake when it didnt reinstate Us online 
banking facility at the same time it lifted the block on 26 September 2019. This meant Ms K 
had to ring the bank to find out what was happening on 27 September 2019. And wasnt able 
to access Us account online. So, Im satisfied Ms K was caused some trouble and upset. 
And I think Santander should pay her £50 compensation.
 
customer service
Ms K says when she called Santander to try and find out how long Santander would take to 
complete its review and what was happening with Us account, the staff she spoke to were 
rude, unpleasant and unhelpful. Having listened to the available calls I cant agree. 
I appreciate that Ms K was upset, and that when she rang the bank much of her frustration 
was because the staff couldnt do what she wanted them to do  which was to unblock Us 
account and process the payments. But I have to base my decision on evidence. Ive 
listened to all the available recordings of the phone calls Ms K made. And I cant say the call 
handlers treated Ms K unfairly or unsympathetically. On the contrary, I found that they were 
polite, listened to Ms K and tried to be helpful. Whereas, Ms Ks conduct was abusive, 
threatening and very offensive on several occasions. So, I dont uphold this aspect of Ms Ks 
complaint.
However, the investigator noted that Santander didnt call Ms K back after shed spoken to a 
complaint handler on 7 October 2019. And that when Ms K spoke to Santander on 27 
September 2019, the call handler incorrectly told Ms K that credits were still able to be paid 
into Us blocked account. The investigator said Santander should have explained things 
more clearly about the impact the block had on Us account and gave Ms K wrong 
information. Santander accepts it provided Ms K with poor service on these two occasions 
and has offered Ms K £100 compensation. The investigator thought this was reasonable. I 
share that assessment and dont therefore think it necessary for me to award any more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Us complaint in part. To put things right 
Santander UK Plc should pay Ms K:
£100 for poor customer service during its phone calls with Ms K and
£50 for not removing the block on Us account correctly
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman