DRN-1826839
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that the Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) gave them 
incorrect information about the amount they need to pay in order to pay off their mortgage by 
the end of the term in 2029. To settle the complaint, they want RBS to allow them to pay the 
incorrect amount to the end of the term and then write off the remaining balance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a current account mortgage (CAM) with RBS taken out in April 2004. 
This operated as a flexible facility, allowing Mr and Mrs S to draw funds up to £201,400 at 
any time. Repayment of the facility, in full or in part, could be made at any time. The term of 
the facility was 25 years. It is due to end in April 2029 when the outstanding balance will 
need to be repaid in full.
I am sorry to note that Mr and Mrs S experienced financial difficulty and in 2006 Mr S was 
made bankrupt, at which point the debt became payable in full. Since that time the CAM has 
been under the control of RBSs Debt Management team. In May 2013 RBS issued a formal 
demand for repayment of the full amount due on the account  at that time about £215,000. 
The bank invited Mr and Mrs S to contact it to discuss a payment plan.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S had difficulty speaking to someone at the bank, but were able to 
put a payment arrangement in place in February 2015. They received a letter which said the 
following:
Following our recent review of your mortgage account, we can confirm our 
agreement that the amount of £214,871.26 can be repaid over a period of 24 months. 
We will not collect a total monthly payment of £1,225.08 from 28/02/23015 to 
31/01/2017 to repay your outstanding mortgage payments
Clearly, it would not be possible to repay almost £215,000 in 24 months with payments of 
£1,225 per month. 
Mr and Mrs S began making the payments of £1,225.08 per month, and have continued to 
do so. 
In 2019 RBS contacted Mr and Mrs S again and it was at this point Mr and Mrs S were told 
that the payments they were making were insufficient to repay the mortgage by 2029. To 
clear the mortgage by the end date, the payment would need to be just over £1,900. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to RBS. RBS acknowledged that its notes showed Mr and Mrs S 
had been told that the payments of £1,225 would clear the account balance. RBS explained 
this was an error and offered compensation of £200.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They 
believe RBS should honour the agreement for them to pay £1,225.08 per month until the end 
of the mortgage term. They say that it is then down to the Royal Bank of Scotland to absorb 
and write off any shortfall at the end of that term.
Mr and Mrs S say that they dont think this is unreasonable, given that over the past ten 
years theyve been unable to use the CAM as intended, yet have had to pay a high rate of 
interest on this loan.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He noted that the 
February 2015 referred to an agreement over 24 months and that it would not be possible for 
£215,000 to be repaid over 24 months with a payment of £1,225. But he also noted that 
RBSs notes showed that Mr and Mrs S had been told their repayment should be £1,225.
The investigator didnt think RBS was obliged to keep repayments at that level, but he noted 
that the bank had invited Mr and Mrs S to contact it to discuss rearranging the mortgage 
onto a new product at a lower interest rate, subject to affordability. He thought this was fair. 
The investigator didnt order RBS to pay any additional compensation.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs S believe RBS should agree to accept 
payments of £1,225 per month from them, rather than the full amount due of £1,900 and 
write off any balance at the end of the term in June 2029.
RBS has acknowledged it made a mistake. Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs S and RBS have 
said about this. Having done so, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs S that the bank is bound by 
its mistake.
I think the letter sent out in February 2015 was a standard letter generated by computer after 
Mr and Mrs S had spoken to the bank. Its wording wasnt suitable for a case where the full 
mortgage balance is due. The letter referred to the full balance as arrears, but went on to 
explain that the payment arrangement is for 24 months. At the time, the mortgage had 
approximately 171 months left to run.
I agree that RBS perpetuated its mistake when it allowed the arrangement to continue and 
didnt correct this until August 2019. But I dont think Mr and Mrs S could reasonably have 
expected to repay a debt of £215,000 over 171 months by paying £1,225 per month. Thats 
because 171 x £1,225.08 is £209,488.68  and that is without any interest being applied 
over the remainder of the term. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S say they trusted what theyd been told by RBS. But I think it ought 
to have been apparent  looking at what they were paying and how much they owed  that 
the figures didnt add up and they werent paying enough to clear the debt by 2029.
Where a mistake has been made, we try, where possible, to put the consumer back in the 
position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. Here, the mistake is that from 
February 2017 (which is when the 24-month payment arrangement put in place in February 
2015 ended) to August 2019 (when they found out the true position) Mr and Mrs S were led 
to believe that a payment of £1,225.08 would pay off the mortgage by the end date. I think if 
no mistake had been made, Mr and Mrs S would have been told when their 24-month 
payment arrangement came to an end in 2017 that their repayments would need to increase 
to around £1,900 per month. Putting things right
Its not possible to go back in time and undo whats happened. What we now have to think 
about is what can be done to put things right so that Mr and Mrs S are able to clear their 
mortgage by the end of the term.
I dont think RBS should be bound to allow Mr and Mrs S to continue to pay £1,225 per 
month. Thats because this wouldnt repay the full amount they borrowed  and that wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable. Im also not persuaded that Mr and Mrs S would have been in a 
position to pay an additional £700 per month after the 24-month arrangement came to an 
end in 2017. 
I cant order RBS to write off any part of the mortgage capital. Mr and Mrs S have had the 
benefit of the funds and so it is reasonable to expect them to repay those funds. 
RBS has said that it will look at what products are available for Mr and Mrs S to allow them 
to switch to a lower rate of interest. Mortgage regulations require RBS to carry out a detailed 
and rigorous affordability assessment when granting a new mortgage  or varying an 
existing one. That assessment can only be set aside for existing customers not borrowing 
more money, where it is in their best interests to do so. 
I think in the present case it is likely to be in Mr and Mrs Ss best interests to switch to a new 
product. Its up to Mr and Mrs S to decide if they want to do this. So although the investigator 
said Mr and Mrs S would need to go through an affordability assessment, this might not be 
necessary if they are not increasing their borrowing. I leave it to RBS to apply the relevant 
provisions of the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook here.
If Mr and Mrs S want to switch to a new product, I would expect RBS to be pro-active and 
arrange to contact Mr and Mrs S within 14 days of them accepting this final decision (if 
Mr and Mrs S decide to accept it). 
RBS has offered compensation of £200 for its mistake in giving incorrect information to 
Mr and Mrs S. I appreciate that the knock-on effect of the banks error is that, after the 
24-month concession expired in February 2017, Mr and Mrs S were underpaying their 
mortgage. But on the other hand, for several years they have had the benefit each month of 
more money in their account than if theyd been paying the correct mortgage repayment. So 
in the circumstances, I think the offer of £200 is fair and reasonable.
I fully acknowledge that it was a shock to Mr and Mrs S to discover they had been 
underpaying their mortgage since February 2017. I have no doubt this has been a stressful 
time for them. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to write off any shortfall debt, for 
the reasons given above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the offer 
made by the Royal Bank of Scotland plc to look at what products are available and how it 
can help Mr and Mrs S repay their mortgage is reasonable in all the circumstances. Im also 
satisfied that the offer of £200 compensation is fair. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs S to 
decide if they want to agree to this, in full and final settlement of their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman