DRN-4489859
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the lack of management and oversight of her bank account with a 
business owned by Yorkshire Building Society. Mrs H is elderly and is represented by her 
daughter who has power of attorney. I have just referred to Yorkshire in this decision.
What happened
I set out the background and my provisional findings to Mrs Hs complaint in my provisional 
decision and here.
Mrs Hs daughter said that Yorkshire hadnt acted on a number of unusual transactions and 
transfers from Mrs Hs account to gambling websites over the years. She complained to 
Yorkshire that no alarms had been raised and no monitoring of the account had taken place. 
Yorkshire said the transactions in question were made with a debit card and the correct PIN 
and so it appears Mrs H chose to make the payments and hadnt raised any concerns. 
Yorkshire apologised for the late response to the complaint and offered £45 compensation. 
  
Mrs Hs daughter was unhappy with this response and referred the complaint to our service. 
Yorkshire said that Mrs Hs complaint was outside of the six-years in which a complaint must 
be brought by the time limit set by the Financial Conduct Authority rules.
Our investigator said we can look at the payments between 2013 and 2018 as the complaint 
was brought to us within three years of when the complainant became aware of a reason to 
complain  and this started when Mrs Hs daughter became aware of the transactions from 
the statements. But he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said banks should 
review accounts and support vulnerable customers and Yorkshire did so by using technology 
and tools to spot signs of unusual activity, but this had to be balanced with customers 
different use of accounts and whats unusual for one person may not be unusual for another.
The investigator said Yorkshires support for Mrs H would depend on what it knew about her, 
but no vulnerabilities had been notified meaning it wouldnt have put additional measures in 
place. He said the account was used for general spending, and the frequency and type of 
transactions wouldnt have alerted Yorkshire to a problem. He said most of the gambling 
transactions, of about £2,200, were in 2013 and didnt suggest compulsive gambling. He 
didnt think there was evidence of fraudulent or unusual activity.
Mrs Hs daughter disagreed and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. She said 
the investigator had justified his own and Yorkshires interests, but hadnt considered if the 
account had been subject to third party coercion. She said her mother never had online 
facilities, but there were many payments to gambling websites and to credit cards and loan 
providers, some of which she thought belonged to third parties. She said there were 
payments for car repairs and petrol even though Mrs H had never owned a car, and some 
strange lifestyle payments. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Mrs Hs account opened in 2003 and closed in January 2018 and her daughter disputes 
transactions between 2013 and 2018. Yorkshire says the complaint has been brought out of 
time and we should treat all transactions before October 2015 as outside of the six years 
allowed for complaints. Yorkshire doesnt consider the transactions between 2015 and 2018 
to be unusual or suspicious considering normal account and payments activity.  
The Financial Conduct Authority sets rules which we must follow concerning the time limits 
for complaints, known as the DISP rules. Alongside the six-year time limit runs a three-year 
time limit in which a complaint must be brought from when a complainant ought reasonably 
to have been aware that they had cause to bring a complaint. I agree with the investigator 
that this should be taken to have started from when Mrs Hs daughter noticed the 
transactions that she considered to be erratic (and took steps to protect her). This was within 
three years of her bringing a complaint, and so I can consider all payments complained 
about.
The complaint concerns Yorkshires lack of intervention into Mrs Hs bank account. In 
response to our investigators view, Mrs Hs daughter has provided some details of what she 
considers to have been coercion exercised on her mother by another relative, who I have 
referred to as the third party. I have considered this concern by means of a provisional 
decision in order to give the parties an opportunity to comment on the findings I have 
reached so far. 
When reaching my provisional decision and considering what is fair and reasonable, I have 
taken into account the relevant law and regulations and, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. With all of this in mind, I have based my provisional decision on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I considered most likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available evidence.
Mrs Hs daughter says the transactions on her mothers account show that all was not right 
as theres overwhelming evidence of wrong doing and misappropriation on an industrial 
scale. She said Yorkshire should have enquired with Mrs H about her spending and there 
was a failure of duty of care to a vulnerable person. Mrs Hs daughter said there were 
numerous cash withdrawals on the same day, large payments to gambling websites, loan 
repayments and payments to dating and training websites. She said Yorkshire should have 
intervened.
In considering whether Yorkshire should have blocked or withheld the transactions 
subsequently complained about I have looked at the records of Mrs Hs account, the 
transactions themselves, and what the bank knew about her at the time. In doing so I have 
borne in mind Yorkshires general obligation to monitor customer accounts and support 
vulnerable customers.
The customer information held by Yorkshire shows no notification of any vulnerabilities by 
Mrs H or by any of her relatives, other than a physical medical condition. The transactions in 
question were carried out over several years, but at no point was Yorkshire put on notice 
about potential coercive control. Im not aware of a power of attorney granted by Mrs H at 
that time, or a third-party mandate set up on her account in order to give anyone else access 
or permission to manage, or help Mrs H manage her financial affairs. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that anyone who may have had concerns about Mrs H told the 
bank she needed any sort of assistance. And, while physical frailty and age might well have 
been visual indicators of vulnerability, the bank had no concerns about her mental capacity. 
To say, in these circumstances, that Yorkshire should have blocked Mrs Hs transactions 
would be to put more responsibility on the bank than on Mrs Hs family. One of the things we consider in this type of complaint is whether the customer consented to 
(and, thereby, authorised) the disputed transactions. Consent includes making the 
transaction themselves or allowing the transaction to be made by someone else. In broad 
terms, banks are expected to process payments and withdrawals that customers authorise 
them to make, in accordance with the payment regulations and the terms and conditions of 
the account. Mrs H consented to, and didnt dispute any transactions.
Mrs Hs daughter has highlighted cash withdrawals of £340 over two days in January 2013, 
but these dont look excessive over the month as a whole. And, as Mrs Hs daughter has 
said, cash withdrawals increased a little over the following five months of 2013 and then 
dropped back, but at no point did these or later withdrawals look suspicious. Mrs Hs 
daughter also mentions gambling and other transactions which she says werent in 
accordance with Mrs Hs lifestyle. 
The transactions that Mrs Hs daughter is concerned about are amongst many others on the 
account. All of the transactions were authorised by Mrs H and involve spending her own 
money as opposed to borrowing. I make this point as coercive control often involves the 
account holder in borrowing money, and for this purpose we expect lenders to check the 
reasons and signs of abuse that might be present. 
I can see that some of these transactions may have been for the benefit of third parties, as 
Mrs Hs daughter suggests, but in itself that doesnt demonstrate coercion. Another 
interpretation is that the third party was assisting Mrs H, (I can see that the third party helped 
Mrs H to close the account later on) and was possibly staying with her at the time. The 
transactions in favour of the third party under this interpretation might be a quid pro quo for 
help given. In the circumstances, I think it more likely than not Mrs H would have reassured 
the bank that everything was under control if it had proactively flagged any concerns with 
her. And so Im not persuaded that an enquiry by Yorkshire would have made a difference. 
Mrs Hs daughter suggests Yorkshire should have made a criminal check on the third party 
and credit reference checks on credit card payments. I dont think this was possible for the 
bank and I see no reason why it would do so in the absence of any alerts about the account. 
In conclusion, I dont think the transactions Mrs Hs daughter has highlighted stand out as 
being particularly unusual or suspicious such that the bank ought to have intervened. There 
is nothing in Yorkshires records to suggest Mrs H wasnt capable of managing her own 
affairs or was under any coercive control, and theres been no direct testimony from Mrs H. 
Mrs Hs daughter hasnt suggested that there has been any communication between Mrs Hs 
family and Yorkshire about Mrs H or the management of her account. 
I can see that it has been very stressful for Mrs Hs daughter to discover details of Mrs Hs 
financial situation and Im sorry to learn of the effect on family relationships. But I havent 
found that Yorkshire acted wrongly in not challenging the payments Mrs H made from her 
account or failed to take care of her as a customer, and so I cant fairly hold Yorkshire liable 
for the losses that have been claimed. Subject to any further information that I receive I dont 
currently intend to uphold this complaint.
For these reasons, I provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs daughter said she fundamentally disagreed with my provisional decision, and I had 
failed to grasp substantive matters in her complaint and the banks duty of care. She said only lip service had been paid on the matter of coercion and just because the bank had 
received no notice, that was no justification to ignore the probability of coercion - where a 
cursory examination of the accounts history would suggest something wasnt right.
Mrs Hs daughter said there were numerous cash withdrawals and significant amounts 
deposited into and transferred out of the account. She said many would argue that spending 
£2,000 on gambling in a year when living on a pension would indicate a problem. She asked 
if we had considered transactions going back to 2004. 
Mrs Hs daughter refers to her complaint, whereas she is complaining on behalf of her 
mother and her mothers losses to a third party. Its also worth bearing in mind that the duty 
of care to which Mrs Hs daughter refers was only introduced this year, although there was a 
general obligation on banks to support vulnerable customers at the time. 
I can see the strength of Mrs Hs daughters feelings about the control she believes that was 
exercised on her mothers finances and I have reconsidered the use of her mothers account 
and Yorkshires response. I agree with Mrs Hs daughter that coercive control is a very 
complex issue, but much of the transaction activity to which she refers took place in 
2004/2005. As the investigator and I have said we are only able to consider events from 
2013 onwards due to the time limits that apply to complaints referred to our service. 
In common with other banks, Yorkshire has various tools and technology to spot signs of 
unusual, or potentially coercive activity. However, this has to be balanced against a 
customers right to authorise a range of different transactions and that customers will use 
accounts differently, and so what may be unusual for one person may not be unusual for 
another. The technology and techniques deployed by banks are commercially sensitive 
information, but they can ensure intervention, particularly when allied to notification of 
vulnerability.  
Mrs Hs daughter strongly believes that the spending on her mothers account should have 
raised enquiries and the bank failed to consider misuse of her account. However, the 
account was operated by her mother via her debit card and PIN, and she didnt raise any 
concerns herself and hasnt provided anything about her situation or complaint.
Whilst theres a general expectation on Yorkshire to support vulnerable customers, this 
would be largely dependent on what it knew about the circumstances. No one notified any 
vulnerabilities on behalf of Mrs H, other than a physical condition. The transactions in 
question were carried out over several years, but at no point was Yorkshire put on notice 
about potential coercive control or any concerns. Yorkshire had no concerns about Mrs Hs 
mental capacity and so to say, in these circumstances, that it should have blocked Mrs Hs 
transactions would be to put more responsibility on the bank than on Mrs Hs family. 
Mrs Hs daughter has said that the coercive transactions were on an industrial scale. I 
disagree, though clearly some transactions were made for the benefit of a third party who 
staying with Mrs H, but no indication that this person made the transactions themselves or 
that this demonstrate coercion. And so Im not persuaded that an enquiry by Yorkshire into 
close family members would have made a difference. 
I can see the account was used for general spending, and these transactions were generally 
for small amounts. There were some larger amounts, but I havent seen anything from the 
nature of these transactions that ought to have triggered an alert. I dont think the 
transactions Mrs Hs daughter has highlighted stand out as being particularly unusual or 
suspicious such that Yorkshire should have intervened. 
Theres nothing to show that Mrs H wasnt capable of managing her own affairs or was 
under any coercive control and I havent found that Yorkshire acted wrongly in not 
challenging the payments Mrs H made or failed to take care of her as a customer, and so I 
cant fairly hold Yorkshire liable for any financial loss that has been claimed. When we reach a decision we have to side with one party over the other, and this is based 
on the evidence, and the balance of probability as to what is most likely to have happened. 
Having done this, I remain of the view set out within my provisional decision that the 
transactions that have been highlighted by Mrs Hs daughter are not particularly suspicious 
in themselves or in light of the lack of concerns from other family members. I realise that Mrs 
Hs daughter will be disappointed with this decision, but I hope she understands the reasons 
that I have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given here, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman