DRN-3798429
The complaint
Mr V has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision not to 
cover a claim he made under his Buildmark warranty.
What happened
There have been numerous separate claims considered by NHBC regarding Mr Vs building. 
Some have related to claims for defects or damage to individual flats, and others have 
concerned common parts  such as the roof or the cladding. This particular complaint is 
about NHBCs decision not to cover repairs for defective cladding. So, its this issue that Ill 
be focusing on here.
There have been various parties involved the claims and complaints made, acting as 
representatives of either Mr V, other leaseholders or NHBC. For ease of reference, Ill only 
refer to Mr V or NHBC in this decision, even when referring to evidence or arguments put 
forward by their respective representatives.
It isnt in dispute that there is a defect with the cladding, nor that there have previously been 
defects with the roof and the windows of certain flats in the building. But NHBCs position is 
that since repairs were carried out to the roof and windows (under separate claims) theres 
been no further evidence of water ingress to the building. So, NHBC says no further works 
are required as there is no damage  which is a requirement for a claim to be considered 
under the section of cover it says applies to this claim. 
But NHBC has offered to carry out a further inspection to see if there is ongoing water 
ingress to the relevant flats or common areas. And it agrees that cover is likely to engage if 
ongoing damage, as a result of a defect, is discovered.
Mr V disagrees. He says the cladding defect remains and that NHBC previously accepted 
the claim and drew up a schedule of repairs. He wants NHBC to fulfil its promise and repair 
the defective cladding.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said there was no evidence of ongoing water ingress to Mr Vs flat or the common areas 
of the building. She said the relevant section of the policy which applied to the claim for the 
cladding was section 3  which meant there needed to be damage, caused by a defect, for 
cover to engage. So, as there appears to be no damage caused by the defective cladding, 
she thought NHBCs position was fair.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement had been reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Having considered the available evidence and arguments, I was minded to reach a slightly 
different conclusion to that reached by our investigator. So, I issued a provisional decision 
and asked that all parties provide any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Im considering in this decision
There has been extensive background to this complaint as various claims have been 
ongoing or in dispute since 2013. I dont intend to comment on every individual issue 
or disagreement which has happened. Instead, Ill focus on what I believe to be the 
key issues relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in this particular 
complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either side, rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role within it. But Id like to reassure the parties 
that I have carefully considered everything theyve submitted, even if I havent 
commented on it specifically.
Mr V is a director of the Property Management Company (PMC) responsible for his 
building. He has sought to raise a complaint in this capacity, on behalf of all the 
leaseholders of the building. However, the PMC isnt a policyholder, and so cannot 
bring a claim or complaint in its own right. Nor has Mr V provided evidence that the 
leaseholders have specifically authorised him (or the PMC) to bring a claim or 
complaint on their behalf. 
That said, Mr V is a leaseholder, and policyholder, in his own right for his own flat. 
So, he is able to bring a claim or complaint about NHBCs handling of a claim for his 
individual flat and/or about its handling of a claim for his proportion of any common 
parts. Its in this capacity that I am considering Mr Vs complaint.
What the warranty covers
NHBCs Buildmark warranty provides cover for specific major problems with newly 
built or converted properties where there has been a breach of its technical 
requirements. The policy is bought by the builder and passed on to the consumer 
when they purchase the property. 
In a building made-up of multiple properties, such as Mr Vs, an individual policy is 
issued to each leaseholder and provides cover for their individual home as well as 
cover for their proportion of any common parts. The cover provided by the policy is 
split into several sections, which largely depend on how much time has elapsed since 
completion of the building or housing unit. Each section of the policy provides 
different, or differing levels, of cover.
Issues identified within the first two years of cover (section 2) are the responsibility of 
the builder to put right. NHBCs responsibilities under section 2 are to provide a 
mediation service (called the resolution service) where there is a dispute with the 
builder and policyholder and, in certain circumstances, to take over the builders 
responsibilities if they fail or refuse to put things right within a reasonable time.
Section 2 provides cover for either damage or a defect  as defined by the warranty 
document. This means that a defect, in isolation, can be covered under section 2. 
This differs from section 3 (years three to ten of cover) which only covers damage, 
caused by a defect, in specified parts of the home or common parts of the building.The key to this complaint is whether the issues with the cladding should be 
considered under section 2 or section 3. This is because, at present, no damage as a 
result of the defect with the cladding has been identified. So, if the cladding claim 
falls under section 3  as NHBC suggests it should  then there is no cover as 
section 3 requires damage. However, if the cladding claim falls under section 2, as 
Mr V suggests it should, then NHBC could potentially be responsible for rectifying the 
defective cladding, as a defect in isolation can be covered under section 2.
Which section should apply?
Section 2 of the warranty requires that any damage or defect is notified to the builder 
within the notification period. The notification period for section 2 depends on 
whether the issue being claimed for affects a common part or not. 
As the cladding is common part, I think the common parts notification period 
reasonably applies here. This notification period is explained in the policy document:
For a Defect or Damage to your Home that does affect Common Parts, the 
notification period is the period:
a) starting on the first of the dates of Completion for the Homes that share 
the Common Parts; and
b) ending the earlier of:
i) three years from that date;
ii) two years from the date of the last of the dates of Completion for the 
Homes that share the Common Parts.
NHBC has provided evidence that the earliest completion date for a home which 
shared the common parts was 21 July 2011 and the latest completion was 
31 October 2011. Based on this, the common parts notification period for section 2 
ended on 31 October 2013. This means for the cladding claim to be considered 
under section 2, the issue with the cladding mustve been notified to the builder on or 
before that date.
NHBC accepts it caused some confusion about which section of the policy the 
cladding claim would fall under. It says the cladding issue was only identified 
following water ingress claims made by three leaseholders, including Mr V, in 
February 2015. But in July 2015 it says it incorrectly merged those claims with a 
separate section 2 claim  which is why it initially confirmed it would cover the 
cladding under section 2. 
However, NHBCs position now is that the cladding issue was only discovered and 
notified in 2015, significantly after the section 2 notification period had expired. So, it 
says the claim for cladding must be considered under section 3. But section 3 only 
covers damage, caused by a defect. A defect alone isnt sufficient for cover to 
engage under section 3. And as there is currently no evidence of damage caused by 
the cladding, or active water ingress to any of the flats or common parts, NHBC says 
it is not responsible for remedying the defective cladding.
Ive carefully reviewed the evidence provided by both sides. Having done so, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that the defect with the cladding was identified or reported 
to the builder before the end of the section 2 notification period.I note that water ingress to certain flats was reported around August 2013. This was 
investigated by NHBC under its resolution service and covered off in a resolution 
report which was issued in January 2014. The cause of the water ingress was 
determined to be missing Illmod seals around the windows  rather than an issue 
with the cladding. In fact, this resolution report made no mention of any concerns 
about the cladding. The first mention of issues with the cladding was in a later 
resolution report issued in 2015. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to conclude that the cladding issue should be considered under 
section 2, because it doesnt appear to have been discovered or notified within the 
applicable period.
It follows that I think the cladding issue should be considered under section 3. And as 
explained, in order for cover under section 3 to engage there must be damage, 
caused by a defect.
NHBCs investigations did initially conclude that the issues with the cladding were 
likely causing the water ingress to Mr Vs flat. However, since repairs to the roof 
(under a separate claim) have been completed, it appears that no further water 
ingress has occurred. The roof claim was settled by a cash settlement in 2019  so it 
seems likely the roof repairs will have been concluded for some time. Therefore, 
based on the evidence currently available, Im persuaded that the cause of water 
ingress to Mr Vs flat was most likely due to issues with the roof and/or windows, as 
opposed to the issue with the cladding. 
So, as the issue with the cladding doesnt appear to be causing damage to Mr Vs 
flat, or any of the common parts, I think NHBCs position, that there is no cover for 
the defective cladding under section 3, is in line with the terms of the policy and is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
That said, NHBC has offered to carry out a further inspection to determine whether 
there is further, active water ingress. If there is, and the cause of that ingress is the 
defective cladding or windows (issues reported during the appropriate notification 
period for section 3  which has since expired) then NHBC accepts it will be 
responsible for putting things right. I think NHBCs position here is fair and 
reasonable.
Im minded to conclude that NHBCs position on the claim for the cladding is fair and 
reasonable. But I dont think this absolves NHBC of responsibility for the frustration 
and loss of expectation it caused Mr V when it incorrectly committed to covering the 
cladding under section 2, then later changed its position  albeit correctly in my view. 
So, in addition to its offer to carry out a further inspection, I think NHBC should pay 
Mr V £200 to compensate him for the impact of its error here.
I said I was intending to direct NHBC to pay Mr V £200 compensation, in addition to carrying 
out a further inspection in line with the offer it had already made.
NHBC responded to confirm it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add.
Mr V provided a detailed response along with various supporting documents. To summarise, 
he said:
He does represent all the leaseholders, and this isnt disputed by NHBC. NHBC has 
had numerous authority to act forms from leaseholders in the past.The wealth of evidence he has supplied is sufficient to demonstrate a causational link 
between the cladding issue, and the water ingress around the windows which was 
reported within the relevant notification period.
He doesnt accept NHBCs suggestion that it mistakenly merged two claims. NHBC 
confirmed on numerous occasions, even as recently as 2016, that it would deal with 
the cladding issue under section 2. An offer was made and accepted, so he wants 
NHBC to honour it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered Mr Vs response to my provisional decision. But having done 
so, Ive not been persuaded that my provisional conclusions were incorrect. Ill explain why 
in more detail below.
Firstly, I dont dispute that Mr V may have been authorised by certain leaseholders to deal 
with certain aspects of their concerns directly with NHBC. Ive seen some authorisation 
forms signed in 2019. But that doesnt mean that Mr V is able to bring this particular 
complaint (opened in 2021) to our service on behalf of all leaseholders in his capacity as a 
director of the PMC. 
As explained in my provisional decision, the PMC is not a policyholder and as such cannot 
bring a claim or complaint without authorisation from one (or more) policyholders. In this 
case, Mr V is a policyholder in his own right, so Im able to consider his complaint. But Ive 
not been provided with authorisation from any other policyholder to confirm they want our 
service to consider their complaint or that they want Mr V to be their representative.
Our investigator explained to Mr V, via his representative, what steps needed to be 
completed for us to join other leaseholders to this complaint. But we werent provided with 
the information we required to do this. So, as with my provisional decision, Im only 
considering Mr Vs claim and complaint here, as an individual leaseholder.  
Mr V says his evidence is sufficient to demonstrate a clear link between the window issue 
and cladding issue. But I dont agree. Ive considered all the information provided, and from 
what Ive seen, none of the evidence suggests that the Ilmod seal issue is connected to the 
cladding issues identified in 2015. The cladding survey carried out in 2016 makes no 
mention of the windows or seals and, crucially, none of the documentation from prior to 
31 October 2013 (expiry of the notification period) mentions any concerns about the 
cladding.
Mr V says that after the seals were initially replaced there were further instances of water 
ingress  which shows that the issues are connected. Ive thought about this. But as 
explained in my provisional decision, I think its more likely than not that the further water 
ingress was caused by the issues with the roof. This is because since the roof claim has 
been settled, and repairs carried out, no further evidence of water ingress has been 
observed or provided. 
In order for me to be persuaded that the cladding issue should be considered under 
section 2, Id need to see evidence that either:It was notified to the builder (or NHBC in the event of the builders insolvency) within 
the relevant notification period, or
Clear evidence that the cladding issue was the proximate cause of the initial water 
ingress, which was reported within that notification period.
But, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont consider that either of the above applies 
here. The cladding issue wasnt identified until 2015 and I havent seen any persuasive 
expert evidence to suggest that the initial water ingress wasnt a result of the missing Ilmod 
seals (as identified at the time), the issue with the roof (as later identified), or a combination 
of both. 
No repairs have been carried out to the cladding at this stage. So, it stands to reason that if 
the cladding issue had been the cause, or a contributory factor, to the initial water ingress, 
that there would be ongoing, active water ingress. But, to this point, theres been no clear 
evidence of water ingress as a result of the cladding issue. And Mr V has confirmed that the 
roof repairs have addressed the water ingress. So, in these circumstances, Ive not been 
persuaded to change my provisional decision.
That said, NHBC has confirmed to our service that it is prepared to carry out an additional 
site visit to inspect the various properties (with appropriate permission), and/or common 
areas, affected by water ingress to establish whether there is still any active water ingress 
(as a result of the window or cladding issues). And if any is discovered, NHBC will consider 
whether it is responsible for remedying the issues under the terms of the warranty. In the 
circumstances, I consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer with respect to Mr Vs 
complaint about his property and his share of the common areas.
I appreciate Mr Vs frustration with the fact that NHBC offered to cover the cladding issue 
under section 2 before changing its position. But I dont consider it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold NHBC to an offer it made in error  where the remedy it offered isnt 
something I believe would be covered under the policy in these circumstances. Instead, I 
think NHBC ought reasonably to compensate Mr V for the loss of expectation he suffered as 
a result of NHBCs incorrect offer. Thats why I provisionally recommended NHBC should 
pay Mr V £200 compensation. I remain of the view that this is a fair and reasonable way to 
settle this aspect of Mr Vs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I uphold Mr Vs complaint in part. 
National House-Building Council must:
Carry out a further inspection to identify whether there is active water ingress as a 
result of defects with the windows or cladding  as it has already offered to do.
Pay Mr V £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman