DRN-1782746
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the total loss settlement Acromas Insurance Company Limited 
paid for his car when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr D made a claim to his insurer, Acromas following an incident where his 
car sustained damage which made it uneconomical to repair.
Acromas settled Mr Ds claim by paying a market value for Mr Ds car of £5,340. 
Mr D didnt think the amount Acromas had paid was fair as he thought his car was worth 
more. But Acromas said it had valued Mr Ds car by using the main motor trade guides and 
had paid the higher of the valuations. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator checked the main trade guides in 
line with our approach when looking at valuation complaints. She thought Acromas had 
reached its valuation reasonably.
Mr D said he would like an ombudsman to decide. He said his car was worth around £2,000 
more 16 months before. So he doesnt believe it would have depreciated in value by this 
much in this amount of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer reached its valuation in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ds policy with Acromas says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market 
value of his car at the time of loss. 
We find the most reliable way to decide a valuation is to look at the main motor trade guides. 
They provide valuations for the same make, model, specification, condition and mileage of 
Mr Ds car for the month of loss based on likely selling prices. We find they are more reliable 
than adverts which can vary widely and tend to have a margin built into the asking price for 
negotiation.
The valuation we  and Acromas  used is the retail transacted figure. This is the amount 
Mr D  or anyone  might pay for a similar car from a retail garage. 
The guides we checked gave valuations ranging from £4,900 to £5,664. As Acromas paid Mr 
D a market value of £5,340, this is within the range of the guides. So I think Acromas 
reached its valuation reasonably.
 
I understand Mr D will be disappointed. But I think Acromas settled his claim fairly and in line 
with the policy. So Im not asking it to increase the valuation it paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman