DRN-1539772
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as BMW Financial Services (BMWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here 
was just under two years old and had completed less than 5,000 miles. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect too much wear and tear.
BMWFS have suggested the metallic noise is a characteristic of this car but Im not 
persuaded that is most likely to be the case because:
Mr W didnt report any noise for three months and if the noise was a characteristic of 
the car Id expect it to have been present from the beginning.
the dealership completed two significant repairs. They replaced the gearbox and the 
flywheel. I think they would have been likely to know about any characteristic the car 
may have had and theyd be unlikely to attempt repairs if the symptoms Mr W 
complains of were simply characteristics;
Mr W would not collect the car. It was clear he was so worried about the noise that 
he wasnt prepared to drive the car again. I think that suggests the issue was more 
than simply a characteristic of the vehicle.
As the fault occurred within the first three months I think it is most likely to have been 
something that was developing at the time Mr W took receipt of the car. In those 
circumstances the relevant legislation allows BMWFS one opportunity to repair the fault. I 
think BMWFS had that opportunity in June 2019. But when that repair failed, they should 
have allowed Mr W to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr W has subsequently sold the vehicle and paid off the agreement. He should not have 
needed to do this, and it should have been BMWFS who took the vehicle back, ended the 
agreement with nothing more to pay and sold the car to offset this cost.
There was a deficit of £1,234.81 between the value Mr W obtained for the car and the 
settlement he had to pay BMWFS to end the agreement. BMWFS should refund this as 
thats a loss, I think its fair to say, they should have incurred by ending Mr Ws finance 
agreement when they should have because of the problems with the car.
They should also refund the monthly instalments he paid to them from the date he handed 
back the hire car as he didnt have use of the car from this point. I think it was fair for Mr W 
to refuse to collect the car as the fault hadnt been resolved.
BMWFS should add 8% simple interest to all the refunds as this is money that Mr W has 
been deprived of.
Its clear that Mr W has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to refer his 
complaint to this service, and I think BMWFS could have resolved it earlier. Hes also had to 
return the car to the dealership on several occasions and hes clearly been distressed by 
matters as I can see hes explained he was concerned about driving the car with a worrying 
noise coming from it. In those circumstances I think BMWFS should compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced, and I think £200 is sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
refund monthly payments from the time Mr W was without a hire car until date of 
settlement and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
pay Mr W £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience the matter has 
caused;
pay Mr W £1234.81 to refund the difference between the sales price and the 
settlement figure. They should add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the 
date Mr W settled the agreement to the date of this complaint is settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman