DRN-3445775
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt reduce their 
monthly payment when they made sizeable overpayments to their interest only mortgage. 
They wanted compensation, and to be reassured about NatWests interest calculations.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an interest only mortgage. The mortgage also included an offset 
facility, although that facility isnt what Mr and Mrs R have complained about, so it isnt 
directly relevant to this complaint. They said they made payments which substantially 
reduced the capital owed, but the monthly repayments didnt reduce as they expected. They 
said NatWest then told them that a clause in their mortgage said they had to contact it if they 
wanted their monthly payments to reduce. It wouldnt do this automatically. 
Mr and Mrs R said that this clause wasnt explained to them when they took out this 
mortgage. They said that because this mortgage was interest only, they should only ever 
have been charged the interest they owed. They wanted compensation for the money they 
would have had if the direct debit had only taken their outstanding interest each month. And 
they said they had no confidence in how the interest has been calculated.
NatWest said Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage did say they had to request any reduction to monthly 
payments, if they made overpayments or if the interest rate went down. Thats why it hadnt 
made these changes already. NatWest didnt think it had done anything wrong. It offered to 
make this change when Mr and Mrs R complained, but they said they didnt want that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could see that the 
provision NatWest referred to was in the terms and conditions of this account, and he 
thought those had been given to Mr and Mrs R. He said that if customers make 
overpayments, or the interest rate goes down, then NatWest doesnt automatically 
recalculate direct debits. Instead, it uses any extra money to reduce the overall amount 
owed. So he didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. They said that this was supposed to be an interest only 
mortgage, so NatWest should only ever charge interest. They thought this clause about not 
reducing the monthly payment was important, and should have been highlighted by 
NatWest. And they thought it was impractical to require them to monitor when interest rates 
went down, then request a change.
Mr and Mrs R said NatWest sent out letters for all sorts of other things (some of which, they 
said, were quite ridiculous  like warning them about the consequences of missed payments 
in the same letter that confirmed theyd paid off their mortgage). So if NatWest could write 
about that sort of thing, then it should also write to say that they could ask for a reduction in 
their monthly payment, if they wanted to.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that NatWest had only charged interest on 
the outstanding balance, so Mr and Mrs R werent worse off. When their monthly mortgage 
payment was higher than the interest owed, their capital balance was being reduced. 
Mr and Mrs R said they were generally unhappy with how NatWest worked out their monthly 
payment. And they felt wed assumed that the extra money they were charged couldnt have 
been invested elsewhere to be more beneficial for them, so they thought we couldnt say that 
they didnt lose out financially. And they said this mortgage just wasnt really interest only. 
Because Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. 
NatWest has drawn our attention to the terms of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage, which do make 
clear that their monthly repayments will not be automatically recalculated whenever 
overpayments are made onto the account. This is what Mr and Mrs R complained about.
I can see that Mr and Mrs R made a series of substantial overpayments in September 2020. 
That reduced their debt to NatWest from £127,583 to £40,000.
And I can see from their mortgage transaction history that the monthly interest charged on 
their account was then much lower. It went from around £350 per month to around £40. But 
NatWest kept asking Mr and Mrs R for £458 per month.
I think that it would have been clear to Mr and Mrs R that, after they had made such a 
substantial reduction in the outstanding balance of their mortgage, the interest NatWest 
ought to charge would be much lower. 
There was then almost a year of direct debit payments, at the pre-existing payment amount. 
The mortgage transaction history shows NatWest was using the surplus money it received 
each month to reduce the overall debt instead. So the amount Mr and Mrs R owed reduced 
from £40,000 in September 2020 to just over £36,000 by July 2021. (An interest only 
mortgage wouldnt usually see any reduction in the overall amount owed during the term of 
the mortgage, the borrower is usually expected to pay a lump sum at the end.)
Further large overpayments were then made in July 2021, which again reduced the capital 
owed. At this point, Mr and Mrs R owed only about £8,000. They complained to NatWest 
then about the amount of their monthly payment. NatWest said it offered to reduce their 
direct debit at this point, if they wanted, but Mr and Mrs R didnt want that.
I understand that NatWest asking for the same monthly amount (for a mortgage which is 
based only on interest owed) may seem counterintuitive after a large reduction in the 
outstanding balance. But I dont think its automatically unfair to do this. NatWest isnt 
keeping any extra money, its applying it to the overall debt that Mr and Mrs R owe. 
Mr and Mrs R said if they had to actually ask for their monthly payments to be reduced, then 
this term ought to have been brought to their attention when they signed their mortgage. But 
I dont agree with them that this should be part of the key facts for this mortgage, or that they 
otherwise needed to be told about this in particular. It isnt possible for banks to include all the details of a mortgage in the key facts document. 
Those are supposed to be short, and that means some things do have to be left out. I think 
its reasonable for NatWest not to have highlighted this point in its key facts. Not all 
customers may want their monthly direct debit to reduce after making a lump sum payment. 
And it does seem to me likely that those customers who do want their monthly direct debit to 
reduce after paying a lump sum, will be proactive about contacting NatWest about this. 
I also think that its relevant that Mr and Mrs R dont appear to have complained to NatWest 
about their monthly payment, until around a year after their first, very sizeable overpayments 
had been made. When they did so, they still didnt want their monthly payment reduced. 
Mr and Mrs R said they wanted compensation for the money they would have had if the 
higher payment hadnt been requested. But as Ive stressed, they havent lost money, its 
been used to pay off their mortgage, which is due to end shortly. 
Mr and Mrs R havent offered us any evidence that they would have been better off investing 
this money elsewhere. And, because they didnt take any steps to reduce their monthly 
payment, either after the first or second overpayments were made, I dont think I can 
assume that they have missed out on an investment elsewhere which would have made 
them better off. 
So I do think that what NatWest has done here is in line with the terms of Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage. And I dont think that what NatWest has done is an unfair or unreasonable 
approach to managing Mr and Mrs Rs account. Ive also not been able to see that Mr and 
Mrs R have lost out. 
For those reasons, I dont think NatWest has to pay compensation in this case. I know that 
Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman