DRN-3263317
The complaint
Ms X complains that she was told she had to open a packaged bank account by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms X says that she was employed by HSBC and was told by an HSBC branch manager that, 
as a member of staff, she had to take out a fee-paying account.
HSBC says that there was no obligation for staff members to open fee-paying accounts and 
its staff would not have told Ms X this.
I wasnt present in any discussion Ms X had at the time of the sale so I cant know what was 
said. I can only look at the evidence available to me today.
On that basis, although I dont doubt her honest recollections, I think its more likely than not 
that Ms Xs memory is mistaken on this sale.
I say this because she originally said she took out the fee-paying account in a branch 
following a discussion. But HSBC has provided evidence that she was sold the account over 
the phone as part of a special promotion.
I also think its more likely than not that if she didnt want a fee-paying account, she would 
have checked this with her line manager or colleagues and found out that it wasnt 
obligatory.
Ms X had previously had a fee free account, so I think its more likely than not that she knew 
she had a choice whether to take out the fee-paying account and she chose to do so.
She says in her submissions that she was aware of the benefits, and she went on to make 
substantial use of them. So, I think she received enough information about the account, and 
I think its more likely than not it was suitable for her.
So, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman