DRN-3861342
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Who Ill call Oodle).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I dont think the business need to take any action here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr L. The car here was about 11 
years old and had already completed about 75,000 miles when it was supplied. I think a 
reasonable person would expect a car of that age and mileage to have quite a bit of wear 
and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Oodle were responsible for the cars 
quality. But as the current fault wasnt reported until much later, the onus is on Mr L to 
demonstrate the fault was present, or developing, when the car was supplied to him.
The relevant legislation also says we should think about whether goods have proven 
durable.
Im not persuaded I have been provided with sufficient evidence to suggest the fault that the 
car is currently suffering from was present from the beginning, or that the fault suggests the 
car hasnt been durable. Ill explain why.
Mr L has supplied a report from a garage I will call GJ. The technician says he can only 
assume that the oil pump or its ancillaries are at fault and that, the car has had issues in 
the past and somebody has tried to fix it but given up and decided to trade in the car.
I dont think the GJ technician has provided evidence to support his theory. I can see hes 
noted there was sealant in the oil pump/timing belt area that may have suggested some sort 
of previous repair. But Im not persuaded that suggests a failed repair or could fairly be 
attributed to the fault the car was experiencing and that the independent engineer recorded.
The independent engineer has explained that it wouldnt be possible to ascertain if there was 
a failed oil pump (I think without stripping the car further) and that there were no fault codes 
relating to a failed oil pump. He said, The fact that the vehicle has covered some 17,000 
miles (since) the date of sale leads us to (the) conclusion that the current issue (with) the 
engine was not present at the point of purchase.
Im persuaded by the independent experts view that it isnt likely the fault was present when 
the car was supplied to Mr L. The expert didnt think it likely that any previous repairs had 
contributed to the failure either.
By the time the car failed it had already completed about 92,000 miles and was over 12 
years old. Whilst I can understand Mr L will be upset the car has failed, given the significant 
age and mileage I dont think it could fairly be considered not to have proven durable.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality and Im not asking Oodle to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman