DRN-3688102
The complaint
Ms K and Mr M complain about the valuation that was carried out on their property as part of 
a product transfer application they made with Lloyds Bank PLC.
Ms K and Mr M say the property was down valued and they feel the surveyor appointed 
lacked local knowledge and expertise, and they didnt consider the extensive refurbishment 
to the property.
What happened
Ms K and Mr M applied for a product transfer to their property, and as part of that it was 
agreed a new valuation would be undertaken. The valuation was carried out in September 
2021, and Ms K and Mr M say the property was down valued from around the £1,895,000 
Ms K and Mr M thought it was worth, to £1,412,045.
Ms K and Mr M werent happy with the valuation figure given, they wanted to appeal the 
valuation, but Lloyds said as this was a product transfer no appeals were allowed. Lloyds 
say the surveyors were independently appointed and were registered with Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors. Because of this it says the surveyors would be audited to ensure 
consistency so it agreed with the valuation provided and couldnt arrange a further valuation.
Ms K and Mr M complained to Lloyds as they had to make higher payments on the mortgage 
because the lower valuation meant their properties loan to value didnt meet the criteria for 
the lower interest rate they wanted. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint because it says it 
followed the correct process in appointing the surveyor.
Our investigator said Lloyds didnt do anything wrong as it appointed an independent and 
competent surveyor and was entitled to rely on their report. Ms K and Mr M didnt agree and 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Lloyds doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. 
When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement that was 
fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Lloyds isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or omission) by 
the surveyor or the firm they work for. Lloyds is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or 
didnt do); we cant consider complaints against it for things a separate business did (or 
didnt do).
All I can consider against Lloyds is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of 
surveyors and having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
I understand Ms K and Mr M were concerned about whether the surveyor understood the 
local area and felt the survey was rushed. But those concerns relate to the work carried out 
by the surveyor and that isnt something Lloyds is responsible for. From what I have noted 
the valuation report has all the correct details of the property, so the valuation figure was 
based on the correct information. 
As the valuation was carried out by an independent surveyor, there was nothing further 
Lloyds needed to do. It was entitled to rely on the report it received from the independent 
professional that had been instructed.
While I can appreciate that the process must have been frustrating for Ms K and Mr M, I 
cant reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Lloyds.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman