DRN-3709244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
handled a claim on their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a motor insurance policy with LV covering their car. 
In October 2021 their car was damaged in a collision with a wild animal. Mr and Mrs H 
contacted LV and made a claim. LV instructed its approved repairer, who Ill refer to as S, to 
make repairs. S organised its parts through its supplier, who Ill refer to as B, who in-turn 
source the parts from the car manufacturer.
The details of this case are well known to all parties and Ill summarise the key issues here 
for ease of reading:
LV say the parts needed werent readily available for the vehicle due to a global 
supply issue. LV liaised with S, who then chased B and the manufacturer and about 
a month passed without all the parts being available.
Mr and Mrs H made several calls to the parties involved in the supply chain to chase 
the parts. Mr and Mrs H said they didnt think the parts had been ordered correctly. 
There was some confusion with the terminology used by S and B.
Mr and Mrs H had been supplied with a small hatchback courtesy car which wasnt 
suitable for their grown-up children. They asked for a larger vehicle over the 
Christmas period and LV said it would pay for an upgraded car over Christmas. Mr 
and Mrs H wanted LV to pay for the upgraded hire car for longer, but LV declined.
In mid-January, the parts were ready. Another issue with the vehicle arose when part 
of the repairs were completed. This ultimately required the manufacturers input and 
it took a further three weeks for the issue to be rectified. 
During the course of the claim, Mr and Mrs H complained to LV about the delays. 
They said LV lied to them about the parts delay. They said LV hadnt kept them up to 
date with what was happening, and theyd had to chase up repeatedly. They made 
over 20 calls to S and more to LV and, eventually, the manufacturer. 
LV said it didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said the delays were outside of its control and 
were due to parts availability. LV apologised for communication issues during the claim and 
offered £50 compensation. It also paid for the upgrade to the courtesy car over Christmas as 
a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They also 
complained that their car wasnt valeted when it was returned to them, and they said the 
mileage had increased by about 250 miles. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint and didnt uphold it. They said they didnt think 
LV had acted unfairly because the delays were primarily because of factors outside LVs 
control. But they did say LV had made some mistakes in its customer service. They thought 
LVs offer of £50 compensation and payment for the hire car was sufficient and in line with 
what this service would recommend. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the view. They asked that their complaint was reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Their complaint about LV covers several areas, so its important that I deal with the various 
parts separately. Id like to assure Mr and Mrs H that Ive considered all of the evidence 
carefully, even if I havent referred to it here.
Parts delay
Ive looked at the conversations that the various parties have had with each other. I can see 
that LV and its suppliers couldnt obtain the parts through their normal channels because the 
relevant parts werent available due to a problem with the manufacturer. I can see LV 
chased up the parts regularly through S and B. Its Mr and Mrs Hs contention that this delay 
was the responsibility of LV.
Its my understanding that this was a global supply chain issue with the manufacturer of the 
required parts, so no matter who was carrying out the repairs there would have been a delay 
in getting the parts into the country. So I dont think its fair to hold LV responsible for the 
delays in obtaining the parts.
In January I can also see that there was a further hold-up in the claim when part of the repair 
was completed, which then showed a further issue with a part that had been previously 
thought was undamaged. Due to the nature of this part and that the car was a newer model, 
it needed attention from the manufacturer to ultimately fix.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs H wanted to have their car back from the repairers early, 
without the repairs being completed. At this point, S declined to do this because of the 
nature of the repairs that werent finished, and I dont think this was unreasonable.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs view that the claim had been going on a very long time, but 
modern motor vehicles like theirs are complex systems, and parts supply chains havent 
recovered following global lockdowns. 
Simply put, its not in LVs interest for claims like this to take an excessive amount of time. I 
can see that LV were in regular contact with all parties at this point in the claim, so I dont 
think itd be fair to say that these delays were its fault.
Condition of their own car
S has provided photos of Mr and Mrs Hs car before it was returned to them. I can see from 
the photos that the car appears clean and tidy and Id describe it as valeted. There is a 
paper cover in the drivers footwell, which Id expect to see following the cleaning process, 
and theres a bottle of water on the rear seat. S has said it thinks this bottle would have 
belonged to Mr and Mrs H, as S do not remove personal belongings from cars it works on. S also said the mileage the car covered was 132 whilst in its care. It said the car had made a 
36 mile round trip for diagnostic work, and had needed numerous road tests.
From the evidence I have, I cant say that Mr and Mrs Hs car has been returned to them in 
poor condition. I think its fair to say the car was valeted before return and I think its 
reasonable for the car to have covered some distance while it was being repaired. I can 
appreciate Mr and Mrs H might think it excessive, but Im sure they would rather have their 
car back having been tested than not.
Courtesy Car
LVs policy includes a provision for a courtesy car. The cover under the policy says they had 
bought the provision of a Basic hire car:
Basic hire car - this is usually a small hatchback under 1.2 litre
Its my understanding that LV provided Mr and Mrs H with a vehicle that matched this 
description. 
Its also my understanding that LV offer the choice of an upgraded hire car, but Mr and Mrs 
H hadnt chosen this option when theyd bought the policy.
Mr and Mrs H have said that they didnt expect the repairs to take as long as they did, so 
when they reached the Christmas period, Mr and Mrs H needed a larger car for their family. 
Ive said above that I dont think its fair to hold LV responsible for the parts delays, so it 
follows that I also dont think theyre responsible for providing Mr and Mrs H with a larger car. 
I can see that LV did provide an upgraded car over Christmas as a goodwill gesture, but I 
dont think its fair to expect it to pay for this over the full period of the claim.
Customer service
I can see that LV has said its claims service wasnt good enough at times during the claim. 
Having read the evidence, I can see that early on in the claim LV werent responding to Mr 
and Mrs H how they would have liked. I think its clear that, once Mr and Mrs H had made a 
formal complaint to LV, then its communications improved. 
LV has paid Mr and Mrs H £50 compensation for this poor communication.
Mr and Mrs H have also said that LV covered up, or lied, to them about parts availability. Ive 
looked at the information shared with them, and Im not readily able to see where this has 
happened. For example, I can see that LV mentioned several times that various sections of 
the claim were subject to parts, and repairers, availability. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs H repeatedly contacted the various parts of the supply chain as 
they were suspicious of LV and Ss motives. I can also see that in doing this, they became 
concerned about two descriptions of a particular part that needed replacement. These 
suspicions then led to a direct accusation that S had ordered the wrong part, and therefore 
the supply delays were due to incompetence, rather than a lack of availability. And I dont 
think its reasonable of Mr and Mrs H to have approached the claim in this way, with pre-
conceived ideas about the conduct of the other parties.
Overall, this claim was over three months in length. From what I can see, most of this time 
was awaiting parts from the manufacturer and, as Ive said above, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to hold LV responsible for this. LV provided Mr and Mrs H with a courtesy car 
under the terms and conditions of its policy, and paid to upgrade this for a period of time. I think LV has acted fairly in managing Mr and Mrs Hs expectations during the claim.
LV did make mistakes during the claim and it has apologised for this and paid Mr and Mrs H 
£50 compensation, which is in line with what this service would expect. I think LV has acted 
fairly and reasonably, according to its terms and conditions, and Im not going to ask it to pay 
any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman