DRN-3771411
The complaint
The executors of the late Mr K complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc has unfairly declined 
their claim for damage caused by an escape of water, under a home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks home was insured by St Andrews. He died in February 2020 and his executors 
arranged with St Andrews for his home insurance policy to continue. In February 2021 Mr C, 
on behalf of the executors, made a claim for an escape of water from a mains water pipe but 
after sending a plumber, St Andrews advised that the policy had been cancelled earlier in 
February 2021, as advised in a call in April 2020 and its letter of 2 January 2021.
Mr C said the letters werent received and complained to St Andrews about the cancellation. 
The executors brought a separate complaint about St Andrews handling of the policy. St 
Andrews said Mr C had called in April 2020 about the property being unoccupied and it had 
told him the policy would be cancelled in February 2021. St Andrews acknowledged that 
despite this it had allowed the policy to renew for a year in July 2021. And so St Andrews 
said it would honour the policy and consider the claim and it paid Mr C £100 compensation. 
St Andrews declined the claim in April 2021 because it didnt comply with the policy terms. It 
said the policy restricts cover when a property is unoccupied and requires the water supply 
to be turned off at the mains and the system drained. But it said this hadnt happened though 
it had made Mr C aware by phone and seven sets of documents from 23 April 2020 to 7 July 
2021, all of which included the special condition. Mr C arranged a plumber to fix the broken 
pipe. St Andrews said its plumber inspected the damage and said sub-zero temperatures 
had caused the pipe to fail, though the pipe work was mostly insulated. The plumber said the 
heating system would have still been able to function with the mains water isolated. 
In response to Mr Cs complaint about the decline of the claim, St Andrews said the damage 
was from the loft water tank, which was fed by mains water and so the mains water hadnt 
been turned off in accordance with the special condition. It said before the claim it wrote to 
Mr C and sent policy documents in March and July 2020, which provided details of the policy 
cover and the special condition added in respect of the unoccupancy of the property. This 
stated that between 1 November and 31 March mains water must be turned off and the 
system drained. It said its agent read the condition in full to Mr C on a call on 23 April 2020.
Mr C was unhappy with St Andrews response and brought his complaint to us. He said the 
heating was set to come on for a couple of hours or so in the morning and for a couple of 
hours or so in the evening at no less than 15 centigrade. He said hed told St Andrews that 
the property was well maintained and visited every 2-3 days and there was a need to keep 
services such as gas on for maintenance.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and said St Andrews should 
reconsider the claim. She said Mr C complied with the policy term as keeping the heating on 
meant it wasnt a requirement that the heating system be drained. She said St Andrews 
plumber noted the leak was from the mains supply to the loft tank and this was a separate 
system to the heating. But the investigator thought it was unreasonable for St Andrews to 
expect a layperson to know this particularly as they didnt live in the property. She thought 
Mr C had taken all reasonable steps to keep the property safe as required by the policy.   
St Andrews disagreed with the investigator saying the policy requires mains water to be 
turned off during the winter and the systems to be drained. As to understanding the terms, it 
said these were read to Mr C and if he was in any doubt he could have asked for 
clarification. It said the condition is used industry wide and not considered ambiguous. St 
Andrews requested an ombudsman review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only considered the present complaint about St Andrews decline of the claim, including 
whether it was reasonable for St Andrews to start drying out the property, but then stop. 
St Andrews said the executors were in breach of the special condition applied to the policy 
in respect of the unoccupancy. Mr C questions whether it was reasonable for St Andrews to 
expect a policyholder to know that a central heating system could operate independently of a 
mains water supply, in line with its policy requirement to turn the heating off and drain down 
the water supply.
Im pleased St Andrews reversed its decision to cancel the policy as I agree that it made 
errors in advising Mr C of the cancellation. St Andrews then rejected the claim for breach of 
the special condition. This states:
it is a condition of your policy that the water, gas and electricity supplies shall be turned off 
at the mains and during the period 1st November to 31st March the water system (excluding 
the central heating system) drained. And further;
If you wish to heat your home throughout this period and your heating system uses the 
water supply you do not need to drain the system or switch off the relevant power supply 
providing the heating is thermostatically controlled and is switched on and set to maintain a 
temperature of at least 50 degrees Fahrenheit or 10 degrees.
This allows an alternative to draining the mains water down. It states that the heating can be 
maintained if it is separate to the mains water. The intention is to offer an alternative means 
of protecting the insured property from the risk of damage from a burst pipe, and places the 
responsibility with the policyholder to ensure the terms and conditions are met.
St Andrews said that had the water been turned off at the mains and the system drained, as 
required, this would have prevented the amount of damage to the unoccupied property. The 
photos and plumbers report indicate that the mains water is a separate system to the central 
heating, and so it would have been possible to have isolated the supply and the system 
drained to have prevented the escape of water. 
St Andrews said the requirement of the condition ought to have been apparent to Mr C from 
the wording and the call and letters sent. I agree that the condition is a standard insurance 
industry response to unoccupancy and that it was explained to Mr C. But the action St 
Andrews says Mr C should have taken depends on his understanding the difference 
between the mains water and the water supply required for the heating system. Mr C said he 
didnt realise he could turn off the mains water and leave the heating on and so he didnt turn 
the water off as he wanted to keep the heating on. I share the investigators view that this wouldnt necessarily be apparent to a policyholder, particularly one that doesnt reside at the 
property. 
Mr C said the heating was left on for mornings and evenings and I think this shows that he 
intended to protect the property. He also described regular visits to the property and the 
need for heating at these times. I think Mr C took reasonable steps to keep the property safe 
as required by the policy, but unfortunately this wasnt enough. The policy covers the 
property for an escape of water, and I think it would be fair in all the circumstances for St 
Andrews to consider the executors claim under this peril.
I think it was acceptable for St Andrews to pause the claim to consider whether it fell within 
the terms of the policy condition. And I appreciate its reasoning for declining the claim, 
however Ive concluded that it would have been fairer to the executors for the claim to have 
been considered without reference to the special condition.
  
final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require St Andrews Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr Ks executors claim for damage to the 
property, without reference to the special condition applied to their policy in relation to the 
unoccupancy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman