DRN-2641889
The complaint
Miss S complains that Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (GPI) has declined a claim 
made under her policy of insurance after the original supplier ceased trading.
What happened
Miss S purchased French doors and French casements from Totali Timber Solutions Limited 
(Totali) in February 2019. Following installation in April 2019, Miss S noticed that the doors 
that had been fitted were darker than shed expected. Nonetheless, she accepted the doors 
as they were and signed a completion form.
When Miss Ss son returned home in July 2019, he alerted her to the substantial variance in 
the shading of the doors and the mismatch in colour of the different sets. For example, he 
had noted that in the lounge, one set of doors was a different shade to the other. Miss S 
decided to raise the matter with Totali. Totali then visited her property to look at the doors, 
agreeing that they were not acceptable. It offered to replace the three sets of doors and 
frames.
Miss S then decided to have a further window replaced and to have the wood changed to 
oak, which she paid an additional amount for. However, Totali went into administration in 
December 2019, before it had resolved the issues with Miss Ss doors or completed the 
order.
Miss S therefore contacted her insurer, GPI, in January 2020, to submit a claim. GPI 
declined the claim, saying Miss S had noticed the defect in May 2019 but the contractor 
ceased trading in December 2019. GPI said this meant the terms of her insurance policy 
didnt cover her for the defect, as the policy terms stated that the insurer wasnt liable if 
defects were discovered or reported to the contractor more than six months before the 
contractor ceased trading. 
Miss S made a complaint to GPI, saying the defect relating to the mismatch of door colours 
was in fact reported to Totali in July 2019 and not May 2019. She said this defect was only 
noticed and reported once her son had returned home and commented on the colour 
variation. Miss S said she had actually accepted the doors in their darker colour despite not 
being happy about it. Miss S therefore complained to GPI, but her complaint was not upheld. 
GPI said the claim form Miss S submitted to it in January 2020 stated that she noticed the 
defect in May 2019 and that it was therefore right for it to decline her claim under the six 
month exclusion. But that it was also applying another exclusion from her policy to decline 
her claim, which was that the insurer wasnt liable for any damage that wouldnt be 
recoverable under the contractors written guarantee. It has also mentioned a further 
exclusion relating to wear and tear.
Unhappy with GPIs response to her complaint, Miss S referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and ultimately recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld. GPI disagreed with our investigators findings and so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy of insurance covers Miss S for making good a Defect in the Insured Works where 
the Contractor has Ceased Trading and is consequently unable to rectify those Defects 
subject to the terms of the Written Guarantee issued to the Policy Holder. 
There are two main policy exclusions GPI has sought to apply in declining Miss Ss claim. 
The first says The Insurer shall not be liable for: any Defect discovered or reported to the 
Contractor more than 6 months before the Contractor Ceased Trading.
Looking at the claim form Miss S submitted to GPI in January 2020, its clear she has stated 
May 2019 as the date she first noticed a defect. She then describes the defect as the doors 
being the wrong colour and unacceptable shading within each set of doors. However, she 
has told us that it was only when her son arrived home in July 2019 that she was alerted to 
the fact that the colours of the different sets of doors did not match  and that this is what 
she found unacceptable and caused her to complain. 
Although Miss Ss claim form says she noticed the defect in May 2019, Im persuaded by her 
testimony that the date she actually discovered that the doors did not match each other 
(rather than just being a different colour than she expected) was July 2019. And I find her 
testimony to have been plausible and consistent throughout her complaint in this regard. So I 
consider it unfair for GPI to rely disproportionately on the date given on the form, when 
according to Miss Ss testimony and the dates of the photographs she took of the doors, I 
think its most likely that the date Miss S noticed the defect she complained about (and 
indeed the date she actually complained to Totali) was July 2019.
As this was within six months of Totali going into administration, I dont consider it fair for 
GPI to apply the above exclusion to decline Miss Ss claim.
The second exclusion GPI has applied in this case to decline Miss Ss claim is: The Insurer 
shall not be liable for: any loss or damage that would not have been recoverable under the 
Contractors Written Guarantee.
GPI says Totali had only agreed to replace the products as a goodwill gesture, not under the 
terms of the written guarantee Totali provided, and so based on the above exclusion, GPI 
doesnt think its liable for this. Its pointed to the terms of Totalis guarantee and has said the 
guarantee doesnt appear to provide a remedy where the goods supplied are not colour 
matched. I disagree with this. The guarantee document doesnt specify which defects are or 
arent covered. So I dont think its fair for GPI to say that a defect relating to the colour of a 
product wouldnt be covered, when such a term doesnt exist in the guarantee document. It 
follows therefore, that I see no reason why the damage wouldnt have been recoverable 
under Totalis written guarantee. 
This is further supported by the fact that Totali agreed to replace the doors when it was 
made aware of the defect  and I havent seen any evidence which makes me think it was 
doing so as a gesture of goodwill. So I find it unreasonable for GPI to rely on the second 
exclusion in declining Miss Ss claim.
GPI has also argued that an exclusion relating to wear and tear applies in this case. But I 
agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to apply that exclusion in these circumstances. The colour mismatch was not gradual and didnt happen over time, so the 
defect cannot be attributed to wear and tear.
Ive also considered compensation for the trouble and upset GPI has caused by unfairly 
declining Miss Ss claim. I think £100 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the 
circumstances and that this should be paid to Miss S in recognition of the inconvenience that 
GPI continuing to unfairly decline the claim has caused her.
Putting things right
GPI must deal with Miss Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of her 
policy, and pay Miss S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Guarantee Protection Insurance 
Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman