The complaint
Mr S has complained about his treatment in a branch of National Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr S wanted to open a personal account with NatWest (where Mr S was an existing 
business customer). Mr S booked a branch appointment with a personal banker as he 
wanted to talk through the options in person. He made his booking a week before the 
appointment, which was at 2pm. 
On the day of the appointment, Mr S was having some difficulties getting hold of the 
paperwork necessary for opening an account and he arrived at the branch late. Mr S says he 
arrived at 2:08pm but the branch assistant was with another customer so he waited for 
around 5 minutes before she spoke to him. He says the branch assistant took copies of his 
paperwork and then told him the personal banker wouldnt be able to see him that day as he 
was late for his appointment. The branch assistant told Mr S that the personal banker was 
now seeing someone else instead.
The branch assistant suggested Mr S could rebook his appointment for another day. She 
also suggested he could open an account online or over the phone. But Mr S wasnt happy  
he was frustrated that hed had to wait a week for an appointment and then hadnt been 
seen when he was a few minutes late.
Mr S called NatWest the next day to complain. He says the customer service assistant that 
he spoke to agreed with him that it shouldnt matter if he was 5  10 minutes late for an 
appointment that would normally be for an hour. But when he received the banks final 
response letter, this took a different approach and said the usual practice at the branch was 
that they wouldnt see customers who were over 10 minutes late. And the letter said that 
Mr S had been around 15 minutes late. NatWest sent Mr S a cheque for £10 to cover his 
travel expenses as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S was unhappy with the final response letter so he came to us. Hes explained his 
position in his correspondence with us. In summary, his complaint is that he wasnt seen 
when he arrived late for his appointment. This has been compounded by the fact that he 
feels NatWest havent given him a valid reason for not seeing him. And he says they are 
being dishonest when they say he arrived 15 minutes late  hes sure he was 8 minutes late. 
Our investigators view was that it was reasonable for the branch staff to see other 
customers after giving Mr S a 5-minute grace period. She thought that theyd suggested 
reasonable alternatives to Mr S and didnt think theyd treated him unfairly. But Mr S 
remained unhappy so his complaint has come to me. 
DRN-1623312What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I realise this will be frustrating for him but I dont think 
NatWest have acted unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Mr S has written a lengthy email in response to our investigators view. I have read and 
considered this in full but wont be addressing every point he makes. Ill focus on the key 
aspects of the complaint.
A key part of this case is a disagreement about what time Mr S arrived at the branch. In the 
absence of documentary evidence, I only have the conflicting testimony of Mr S and the 
branch assistant to go on. Mr S has told us he looked at his watch when he arrived and it 
said 2.08pm. Given he was running late, it makes sense to me that he checked his watch. 
And it makes sense to me that the branch assistant would have been less aware of the time 
 because she was assisting another customer at the time and because she wasnt aware of
the importance of Mr Ss arrival time.
But Im not convinced it matters exactly what time Mr S arrived - when he did arrive, the 
branch assistant was assisting another customer. While I can understand Mr Ss frustration I 
cant say thats unreasonable  I wouldnt expect her to have attended to Mr S immediately.
By the time the branch assistant was free to attend to Mr S, I can see it was around 2.15pm. 
It was only at this point that the personal banker was notified that Mr S had arrived. Again, I 
cant say thats unreasonable  the branch assistant acts as a receptionist and theres no 
reason the personal banker should wait in the branch lobby. 
The personal banker told us that the appointment was booked for an hour but that shell take 
a walk-in customer if her booked customer is more than 10 minutes late. Shes also said that 
Mr S would have been sent a contact number so he could have let her know he was running 
late. I cant say its unreasonable for the personal banker to see another customer in these 
circumstances. 
I can see Mr S is upset that the 10-minute grace period isnt written into a code of practice. 
But I dont think it would have made any difference to him as this would be an internal 
document even if it did exist. 
I can understand how frustrating this would have been for Mr S. Im also aware it wasnt long 
after a family bereavement which Im sure would have added to the emotions that Mr S felt. 
But I cant say NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.Clare King
Ombudsman