DRN-3873193
The complaint
A company Ill call R complains about restrictions placed on its account by The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc, and about the service it received from the bank concerning a business 
profile review. R is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr F.
What happened
In December 2021 RBS wrote to R to ask it to complete a business profile review. It followed 
its original request with further letters in January and February 2022. On 15 February 2022, 
having received no reply, RBS placed a restriction on Rs account.
The restriction came as a surprise to Mr F, who contacted RBS. It turned out that RBS had 
sent the letters to an out-of-date address for R. Although Mr F had updated the address, it 
hadnt carried across properly on RBSs system. Mr F also complained about the way a 
member of RBSs staff had spoken to him on the phone, and about the problems hed had 
logging onto the Business Profile portal. RBS apologised that its communications with R had 
fallen short, and that this had caused inconvenience to R. It credited Rs account with £250 
and extended the deadline for completing the review until 15 April 2022.
On 30 March 2022 Mr F contacted RBS to complete the business profile review over the 
phone. The first stage of the review was completed successfully, but RBS explained that 
verification of Rs trading address would be needed, as the address on its VAT records 
wasnt up to date. Over the next few weeks Mr F spoke several times to RBS about the 
further information it needed. 
On 19 April RBSs Business Profile Review Team wrote to Mr F, reminding him that it 
needed further information to complete the business profile for R. It said that if it didnt 
receive the information by 15 May it would need to restrict access to Rs accounts. If that 
happened, R wouldnt be able to deposit, withdraw or transfer money, and RBS wouldnt be 
able to process any standing orders. It set out contact details if Mr F needed help. 
In an email to Mr F on 5 May 2022 RBS said that the problem with the trading address had 
been resolved, and the only outstanding requirement was a declaration of beneficial 
ownership and structure chart. It attached templates for R to use and guidance on how to 
complete them. It explained that Mr F could, as a director of R, certify the documents himself 
unless R had nominee shareholdings. And it reminded Mr F that R needed to submit the 
completed documents by 15 May, but if he needed more time, Mr F should get in touch and 
an extension could be arranged. 
On 13 May  the last working day before the deadline - Mr F emailed RBS, asking for a few 
days extension to the deadline. The person to whom the email was addressed was on leave 
and an out-of-office reply provided an email address that Mr F could use to contact her 
colleagues. 
Not having received the information, RBS placed a restriction on Rs account on 16 May. 
Mr F phoned RBS the following day and was told that it could take up to 48 hours for the 
restrictions to be lifted. He asked for help in finalising the remaining information that was 
required to complete the review. The first available date for a call with an analyst from the 
review team was a week later. In the event, R managed to provide the information without 
speaking to the analyst, and the restrictions were lifted on 18 May.
Mr F says he repeatedly asked RBS for help in completing the review, but help was only 
offered on one occasion, when he was busy and couldnt speak. Hes commented that one 
of the people he spoke to at RBS told him they didnt know how to go about completing the 
review. And hes dissatisfied that it wasnt until after the account had been restricted for the 
second time that he was told that RBS had a dedicated team to help customers with 
business profile reviews. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary, that he thought the £250 that RBS had paid R for the first restriction was 
enough to reflect the inconvenience R had experienced. And although he agreed that RBS 
could have done more to help R during the review, he thought Mr F could have contacted 
RBS sooner than he did. So, he thought it had been fair to place the restriction on Rs 
account.
Mr F, on Rs behalf, didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has explained, and I accept, that it has a regulatory obligation to maintain and update 
its customer records periodically. If it doesnt receive the necessary information by the 
specified deadline, it puts restrictions on the account in order to prompt the customer to get 
in touch.
R experienced inconvenience when its account was restricted for a couple of days in May 
2022. But I dont think RBS can fairly be blamed for that inconvenience.
Im satisfied that RBS explained clearly what was needed from R in order to complete the 
review. The deadline of 15 May, and the consequences of not meeting it, were set out in 
RBSs letter to R of 19 April 2022. 
In an email to Mr F on 5 May 2022 RBS stated clearly that only two documents were 
outstanding. It attached templates for both documents, with instructions on how to complete 
them. It reiterated the 15 May deadline for providing the documents, and it said that if Mr F 
needed more time, he should let it know and a further extension could be given. 
That was on a Thursday, ten days before the deadline. It wasnt until the following Friday, 
the last working day before the deadline of Sunday 15 May, that Mr F contacted RBS to ask 
for an extension. I think it more likely than not that hed have received the out-of-office 
message from the person he sent the email to. So I think hed have been aware that she 
wouldnt see the email before the deadline. Further, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr F 
contacted anyone else at RBS later that day. And in the absence of any confirmation of an 
extension from the bank, it would have been reasonable to conclude that the 15 May 
deadline remained in place. I can understand Mr Fs frustration that one member of RBSs staff to whom he spoke didnt 
know what was required to complete the review. Hes also commented that it wasnt until 
17 May that he was told that RBS had a dedicated team to help with business profile 
reviews, but the first available appointment to speak to a member of the team wasnt for a 
week. 
But the business profile review team had been mentioned in several letters and emails to 
Mr F before 17 May. The fact that there would be a wait to speak to someone from the 
review team wouldnt have mattered if Mr F hadnt left it so late to ask for an extension. And 
in the end, he managed to provide the necessary documents without speaking to the team. 
Once RBS received those documents, it lifted the restriction within a reasonable time.
It isnt in dispute that RBS was at fault for not updating Rs address properly on its systems. 
And I accept that that led to Rs account being restricted in February 2022. For that reason, 
I partially uphold the complaint, but I consider the £250 that RBS credited to Rs account to 
be fair to reflect the inconvenience that R experienced as a result. However, Im not 
persuaded that I can fairly hold RBS responsible for the fact that the account was, again, 
restricted in May 2022 or for any further inconvenience that R experienced. And I dont 
consider that I can reasonably require it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. But as The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
has already paid what I consider to be fair compensation to R, I dont require it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman