DRN-2888523
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) 
treated him unfairly when it blocked and closed his accounts.
What happened
On 29 July 2019, Tesco Bank blocked Mr Ss accounts while it undertook a review. Mr S 
tried to contact Tesco Bank several times to understand more about the block, but Tesco 
Bank didnt disclose any further information. 
On 9 August 2019, Tesco Bank issued its final response to Mr Ss complaint. It apologised 
for giving him mis-information when he called and paid him £30 in compensation. But it didnt 
uphold his complaint about the account blocks. It sent a separate letter on the same day, 
explaining the outcome of its review. It said it had decided to close all of his accounts in 14 
days time, except his fixed rate saver which would remain until it matured. It asked Mr S to 
provide bank details of where he wanted Tesco Bank to send his account balances.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She said Tesco Bank was entitled to restrict access to Mr Ss accounts 
and that it wasnt obliged to give Mr S prior notice of the block. 
Mr S said he felt Tesco Bank had treated him unfairly by blocking his accounts immediately, 
without paying him compensation. He said he cant be satisfied Tesco Bank had reasonable 
grounds to do so, in the absence of further information. And that it should have told him its 
reasons after it completed its review, or referred him to a third party who could tell him.
Mr S said he accepted Tesco Bank could block and close his accounts, but he felt they 
should pay him compensation for the losses, distress and inconvenience he suffered as a 
result. Our investigator didnt change her opinion, so Mr S asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account blocks
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
Ive looked at the evidence Tesco Bank has provided me to demonstrate why it says it was 
entitled to block Mr Ss accounts. Having done so, Im satisfied that Tesco Bank acted in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ss account. And that it was 
entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that govern the relationship 
between Tesco Bank and Mr S. 
I understand Mr S wants to know why Tesco Bank blocked his accounts, and I recognise the 
block caused him difficulties, particularly given he had no prior warning. But Tesco Bank is 
under no obligation to confirm its reasons, or to advise Mr S how he can find out elsewhere. 
And it doesnt have to warn customers of an intention to block an account. Given the nature 
of the regulations in question, to do so would be counter-productive.
Im also satisfied Tesco Bank completed its review in a reasonable timeframe. While I 
appreciate Mr S made several attempts to discuss the matter with Tesco Bank, it wasnt able 
to discuss the details with him while the review was ongoing. 
Tesco Bank confirmed the outcome of the review 11 days after it first blocked the account. 
Ive seen evidence of the action it took during that time and I saw nothing to suggest there 
were any avoidable or unnecessary delays.
I know Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint, and I understand why he wants to know 
the reasons for Tesco Banks actions and why he wants Tesco Bank to compensate him for 
his losses. But given that Im satisfied Tesco Bank acted in accordance with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked the accounts, and that it complied with the account 
terms and conditions when it did so, I cant reasonably ask Tesco Bank to pay Mr S 
compensation when it hasnt done anything wrong.
Account closures
Mr S says that, while he accepts Tesco Bank can close his account, he doesnt think it 
treated him fairly when it did so, because of the manner in which it closed his account: i.e. at 
short notice and without explaining its reasons. However, Im satisfied Tesco Bank did act 
fairly when it closed Mr Ss account. Ill explain why.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the accounts  with which both Tesco Bank and Mr S had to 
comply  say that it could close the accounts immediately and without notice, under certain 
circumstances. 
Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied Tesco Bank acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Ss account. It wasnt obliged to 
explain its reasons and it gave Mr S 14 days to make alternative banking arrangements, 
which it didnt have to. So, I cant reasonably ask Tesco Bank to compensate Mr S, given 
that I dont consider it treated him unfairly and given that its actions were in accordance with 
its legal and regulatory obligations, and the terms and conditions of the account.
I understand its frustrating for Mr S not knowing why Tesco Bank did what it did. And while I 
cant reasonably compel it to divulge any further information, I hope Mr S will take some 
small solace from the fact that, having independently reviewed everything Tesco Bank took 
into account when it blocked and closed his account, I didnt see anything untoward on 
Tesco Banks part and, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied it had reasonable 
grounds to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Ombudsman