DRN-4001686
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A had a diesel car, first registered in 2013. In May 2022, Mr A went online and took out a 
policy for the year from 23 June 2022. The policy was a telematics or black box policy. 
The parties were Mr A as policyholder, his wife as a named driver, his intermediary or 
broker, an administrator on behalf of Mulsanne and Mulsanne as the insurance company.
When Mr A took out the policy, the administrator generated a statement of fact document. It 
included the following:
Total mileage: 5500
As an optional extra, Mr A took out breakdown insurance cover. 
The total cost was as follows:
motor premium £621.75
breakdown cover £  69.95
arrangement fee £  25.00
total £716.70
On 1 September 2022, the broker wrote to Mr A saying that the administrator was cancelling 
the policy with effect from 8 September 2022 .The broker said that it would make a 
cancellation charge of £75.00. 
Mr A complained to the broker about the cancellation and the charges.
On 14 September 2022, the broker wrote to Mr A confirming that the policy was cancelled. 
Mr A had been on cover for about eleven weeks.
At around the same time, the broker made the following charges and refund:
Total amount paid £716.70 
new business fee £  25.00 
telematics device fee £  40.00
cancellation charge £  75.00
insurer charge (time on cover) £131.53
breakdown cover £  69.95
total charges £341.48
refund £375.22
In late September 2022, Mr A returned the telematics device, and the broker refunded the 
fee of £40.00.
By a final response dated early October 2022, the broker turned down the complaint. It said 
that the cancellation had been due to non-disclosure of material facts. Mr A brought his 
complaint to us immediately.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He referred to 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). He didnt think 
that Mr A had made a misrepresentation. The investigator recommended that Mulsanne 
should:
1. remove any record of cancellation from its records; and
2. provide a letter of confirmation for Mr A to give to his new insurer reflecting that no
cancellation should have been declared; and
3. reimburse the cancellation fee *
4. reimburse the breakdown cover fee * (pro-rata based on time on cover); and
5. pay £150.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*consider applying 8% simple interest to the payments from the date they were 
charged up until the date they have been reimbursed. 
Mr A agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mulsanne disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. The administrator says, in summary, that:
Mileage is specific risk information and is tracked. 
It asked a clear question on mileage and the client has chosen to misrepresent this.
Its terms of business entitled it to review the telematics data and adjust the mileage 
on the policy.
It doesnt submit cancellation markers to any shared databases. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIDRACIDRA put a duty on Mr A to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation to 
Mulsanne when he took out the policy.
Mr A said the mileage would be 5500. 
Between late June and early September 2022, it became clear that 5500 miles wasnt 
enough. But Mulsanne has fallen well short of showing that Mr A ought reasonably to have 
known in May 2022 that 5500 miles wouldnt be enough or that he made a careless 
misrepresentation in May 2022. 
So CIDRA doesnt provide any remedy for Mulsanne.
Policy terms
The policy terms included the following:
How is the Telematics Data used? We and your insurance intermediary will use this 
information to:
  review the mileage on your policy and check it is an accurate reflection of the miles 
you are travelling. 
 This may result in the mileage stated on your policy being adjusted, up or down, to 
reflect the mileage you have driven. You will be given 7 days notice of any adjustment. 
 review the location of the insured vehicle on the policy and check is it an accurate 
reflection of where the vehicle is being parked. 
This may result in the adjustment or cancellation of the policy, you will be given 7 days 
notice of any adjustment or cancellation.
So the policy said that Mulsanne or the intermediary would use the telematics data to review 
the mileage on the policy and check it was an accurate reflection of the miles being travelled. 
It said that this might result in an adjustment or cancellation of the policy.
The policy terms also included the following: 
Cancellation by us or your Insurance Intermediary
We or your insurance intermediary may cancel this insurance by giving you in writing to 
your last known address or email address 
Subject to no non-recoverable claims having been made (or likely to be made), you will 
be charged on a daily pro rata basis for the time you have had on cover. We will only 
exercise this right if there is a good reason for doing so, including non-payment of 
premium, not providing documents we request, a risk we consider unacceptable or if we 
become aware that you have been driving your insured vehicle otherwise than in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions. If a claim that is non-recoverable has, 
or is likely, to be made, there will be no refund of premium. 
So Mulsanne had said it would only exercise its right to cancel if there was a good reason for 
doing so. It gave examples of good reasons including unacceptable risk or driving otherwise 
than in accordance with the policy terms. 
Cancellation
The notice of cancellation included the following:
The insurer has taken this decision because the details provided when applying for 
the policy have been linked to a number of inconsistencies on various policies and applicants. As a result, we believe there has been incorrect information in your 
application for cover with us.
That sounds like one of a number of cancellations relating to a number of policyholders with 
something linking them. The reason of incorrect information didnt relate only to Mr A. 
And it didnt specify what information the insurer believed to be incorrect. So the broker 
wasnt able to tell Mr A what information he needed to check or confirm in order to avoid 
cancellation.  
Later, the administrator explained that, between late June and late August 2022, the black 
box had recorded over 5,500 miles, so (at that rate) the vehicle would have an annual 
mileage that was beyond what Mulsanne regarded as acceptable or would quote for.
But if that was the concern, then the policy provided for a review as an alternative to  
cancellation. And in my view, it wouldve been fair for there to be a review involving Mr A 
rather than a unilateral cancellation. 
Such a review wouldve revealed that he had been preparing to buy a new car and a new 
home a long way from where he was renting. I accept that Mr A had completed the purchase 
of the new home on 31 August 2022, but he hadnt moved out of his rented home at the time 
of the cancellation. And he was still wating for the new car. So I find it likely that his future 
monthly mileage wouldve been less than it had been over the summer.
I dont consider that Mulsanne treated Mr A fairly by cancelling the policy without reviewing 
with Mr A his likely future mileage and discussing an increased premium. 
Putting things right
Ive checked that the charge of about £131.00 for about eleven weeks on cover is 
proportionate to the motor premium of about £620.00 for the year.
I accept that the unfair cancellation caused Mr A to incur a cancellation fee of £75.00 to the 
broker. I accept that the unfair cancellation also caused Mr A to waste the pre-payment to 
the breakdown insurer (not Mulsanne) insofar as it related to the period of breakdown cover 
from 8 September 2022 to 22 June 2023. So, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne 
to reimburse Mr A. 
Since he will have been out of pocket since the cancellation, I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Mulsanne to add interest at our usual rate.
I dont doubt that Mulsannes unfair cancellation caused Mr A some upset and put him to 
some trouble in urgently arranging alternative cover.
I havent seen enough evidence that the alternative cover was more expensive. And by late 
September 2022, Mr A had moved home, which might have changed his premium. 
Also, Mulsanne has said that it doesnt record enforced cancellations on any database. And I 
intend to direct Mulsanne to write a letter to Mr A (which he may show to any current or 
future insurer) saying that it cancelled the policy unfairly.
For these reasons, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to compensate Mr A 
for any increased cost of insurance.
Keeping in mind the impact of the unfair cancellation on Mr A, I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Mulsanne to pay £150.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mr A (which he may show to any current or future insurer) saying that 
it cancelled the policy unfairly; and
2. pay Mr A £75.00 in reimbursement of the cancellation fee; and
3. pay Mr A the proportion of the breakdown cover premium of £ 69.95 that the period 
of time between 8 September 2022 and 22 June 2023 bears to the year ending on 
that latter date; and 
4. pay Mr A simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each of the amounts it pays him 
under paragraphs 2 and 3 (immediately above) from 8 September 2022 to the date of 
payment. If Mulsanne considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
5. pay Mr A £150.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman