DRN-3085812
The complaint
Mrs F complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) failed to honour a claim 
she brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mrs F is 
represented by a claims management company. When I refer to things said or done by 
Mrs F in relation to the complaint then this should be taken to include things said or done by 
her representative also.
Im very sorry that Mrs F has had to wait a long time for a final decision from this service, 
and has received a number of different assessments from us to date.
What happened
I will summarise the background to the complaint only briefly, as the details are well known 
to all parties by this stage.
Mrs F had a timeshare with a company Ill call D. She came into contact with another 
company, R, which said it could release her from her timeshare with D and would pursue a 
compensation claim against D for mis-selling of the timeshare.
Mrs F signed a contract with R confirming the above, dated 23 March 2017. She made a 
payment of £2,450 on her M&S credit card to a third company, MRL, on the same day, and 
then a faster payment from her bank account of £5,704 on 18 April 2017.
R apparently told Mrs F it could take 9 to 12 months to complete the work for her. Time went 
on and Mrs F says she had heard nothing from R by December 2017. Her husband tried to 
get hold of the company but their phone line was disconnected. It turned out they had 
ceased trading and Mrs F received confirmation of this from Rs liquidators in late May 2018.
Mrs F first contacted M&S about the situation in April 2018, when she sent a message to the 
bank asking for more information about the transaction with MRL. M&S says it told Mrs F 
that if she wanted to dispute the transaction she should get in touch.
A few months later, in July 2018, Mrs F called M&S to dispute the transaction. A section 75 
claim was logged by the bank and then rejected in September 2018. It rejected Mrs Fs claim 
on the grounds there was no debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place to allow 
her to make a claim. This was because she had made a contract with R, but shed paid a 
different company, MRL.
Mrs F then appointed her representatives who pursued a complaint about the transaction for 
her. They argued R and MRL had been linked and this meant a DCS agreement existed. 
M&S and Mrs F were unable to agree and the complaint was referred to this service for an 
independent assessment.
Our most recent assessment of the complaint did not uphold it. Our investigator agreed with 
M&S that there was not a DCS agreement in place, and the relationship between R and 
MRL was not enough to overturn this. She also concluded the bank were not wrong to have 
not considered attempting a chargeback on the credit card transaction, because by the time 
Mrs F had tried to dispute it, it was too late.
Mrs F asked for an ombudsmans decision so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card 
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for 
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via which they can help. If 
a credit card has been used, as in this case, Section 75 of the CCA gives a legal right to 
claim against the credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentations, 
so long as certain technical criteria have been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can use the 
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the 
money paid on the card, in certain scenarios. This includes scenarios where goods or 
services have not been received, and the process of disputing the transaction is generally 
known as a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their card issuer attempts 
a chargeback, I would expect the issuer to attempt one if there was a reasonable prospect of 
the process succeeding.
The Section 75 claim
M&S has said the fact Mrs F contracted with R, but her credit card payment went to MRL, 
meant the relevant DCS agreement did not exist, and this meant Mrs F could not bring a 
claim against it under section 75 for what R had done (or failed to do).
This DCS link or DCS agreement is one of the technical criteria which has to be in place 
for a successful section 75 claim to be made. The easiest way to explain it is by saying that 
when someone makes a payment on their credit card, in order to make a section 75 claim 
against their credit card provider they need to have used the credit card to pay the same 
company they say has misrepresented something to them, or breached its contract with 
them. If they paid someone else then there wont be a DCS agreement that would allow 
them to claim against their card provider.
In this case Mrs Fs claim for a breach of contract is against R. She entered a contract with 
them to release her from her timeshare and claim compensation, but they failed to do either 
of these things. But shes paid MRL, who dont appear to have had any contractual 
relationship with her. So it would seem a valid DCS agreement doesnt exist for her to be 
able to make a claim against M&S.
There are some exceptions to this general principle:
If the supplier (R) and the payee (MRL) were associates as defined in section 184 
of the CCA, at the time of the credit card payment, then they can be treated as one 
and the same for the purposes of a section 75 claim. People are associates if they 
are relatives or in partnership together. Companies are associates if they are 
controlled by the same people, or by people who are associates of one another.
If the precise arrangements between the supplier and the payee were such that 
pre-existing arrangements should be said to exist between the supplier and the creditor, as found in the case of Alfred Truman v. Bank of Scotland [2005] EWHC 
583 (QB). This would be a DCS agreement would exist.
If the payee was closely involved in the provision of the services to be provided under 
the suppliers contract with the debtor. This would mean they had an interest in the 
supply of the services in question and the contract, and this would and give rise to 
pre-existing arrangements between the supplier and creditor, as found in the case 
of Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016]. This would also mean a DCS 
agreement would exist.
Ive carefully considered whether any of these exceptions apply to Mrs Fs case. 
R and MRL were associates between 1 April 2016 and 1 December 2016. This is because a 
Mr K controlled R between these dates due to him being a major shareholder, while an 
associate of his (Mr U) controlled MRL as its sole director. Mr K ceased to control R after 1 
December 2016, meaning the companies were no longer associates by the time Mrs F made 
her credit card payment in March 2017. So this exception doesnt apply. I appreciate Mrs F 
thinks the Companies House records, which show the relevant dates, are not an accurate 
reflection of what happened, but Ive not seen persuasive evidence of this.
The judge in the case of Alfred Truman highlighted the importance of knowledge of the 
precise arrangements between the supplier and payee, when coming to a conclusion that 
pre-existing arrangements existed between the supplier and creditor. I dont have much 
information about what arrangements existed between R and MRL. Its clear that MRL 
routinely took payments for Rs customers, and Ive seen a compliance checklist that 
required Rs salespeople to tell customers the name of MRL (or another company) would 
appear on their statement. But Ive not seen any detailed evidence which clarifies exactly 
what these arrangements were. In Alfred Truman the court had a much more complete 
picture of the nature of the arrangements between the parties. I dont have that in this case, 
and in its absence I am unable to conclude that the arrangements between R and MRL 
meant pre-existing arrangements were in effect between M&S and R. This means the 
second exception doesnt apply.
Finally, I dont see a parallel between this case and the case of Marshall. Ive seen no 
evidence that MRL were involved in the provision of the timeshare release or compensation 
claim services Mrs F had contracted with R for. So the third exception doesnt apply.
This means I find there was no valid DCS agreement in place here which would allow Mrs F 
to hold M&S liable for Rs breach of contract under section 75 of the CCA. Ultimately I dont 
think the bank was wrong to decline her claim.
Chargeback
Our investigators findings on the question of whether or not M&S should have attempted a 
chargeback have not been challenged by Mrs F. 
I agree with our investigators conclusion that M&S couldnt attempt a chargeback because it 
was too late by the time the problem had been brought to its attention. I note Mrs F did in 
fact contact M&S about the transaction while there was still time for the bank to dispute it. 
However, at this stage Mrs F appears to have been asking for information about the 
transaction only, and didnt dispute it until it was too late for the bank to do anything about it.
My final decisionIm sorry that Mrs F has lost a significant amount of money in what looks like it could have 
been a scam. But for the reasons explained above I do not uphold her complaint about M&S.
As a final note, I understand Mrs F has had some contact with Rs liquidators but its not 
clear to me if shes made a claim in the liquidation. This is something she may wish to 
consider doing. The liquidators have recently reported that theyve recovered more than 
£200,000 for the benefit of creditors and they believe further recoveries are possible. So its 
possible Mrs F may receive a dividend from the liquidation if she makes a claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman