DRN-3918718
The complaint
Miss J complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In September 2022, Miss J got a text message which said she was eligible for an energy bill 
discount and provided a link for her to claim the money. Miss J followed the link and entered 
her card details before realising it was most likely a scam. Miss J immediately cancelled her 
card through her Revolut banking app.
The following day Miss J received a call, from someone who said they worked for Revolut. 
Miss J says she checked the number they were calling from online, and the first link showed 
it as a genuine Revolut phone number. The caller told Miss J that cancelling her card 
wouldnt stop a scammer from setting up direct debits on her account, so her account was 
still at risk. They also explained that by clicking the link in the text, the scammers wouldve 
installed malware on her device and would have access to her Revolut banking app.
The caller gave her a fraud case number and told Miss J they needed to reset her Revolut 
account by giving her a new sort code and account number. They talked Miss J through 
setting up a new payee and making a payment. As a result of her conversation Miss J 
transferred the full balance of her Revolut account being £8,118.48 to the new payee. 
When Miss J saw the funds leave her Revolut account she became concerned and asked 
when they would be returned, and the scammer ended the call. Miss J immediately realised 
shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Revolut via their in-app chat. 
Miss J was on Revoluts chat for approximately three hours. During that time, she was asked 
to provide evidence of the text message she received relating to the energy bill discount, as 
well as screen shots that showed the number the scammer called from. At around 7pm the 
Revolut staff member terminated the chat as their shift had ended. Miss J recontacted 
Revolut the next day through their in-app chat again to finish raising her fraud claim.
Miss J says she found the caller believable as they knew her full name, phone number and 
that shed been the victim of a phishing scam the day before. She also says they guided her 
through making the payment on her Revolut app as if they knew exactly what she could see.
Revolut considered Miss Js fraud claim but declined to refund her. They said that by the 
time Miss J contacted them about the scam it was too late for them to cancel the payment. 
But they had contacted the beneficiary bank to try and recover her funds. They told Miss J 
shed been presented with warnings when making the payment, including confirmation that 
the account name didnt match the payee name on her transfer and a general warning that 
she could be the victim of a scam. Revolut acknowledged that Miss J had received poor 
customer service from one of their agents on the day she reported the scam and paid her 
£75 compensation.
Miss J wasnt happy with Revoluts response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Js complaint and upheld it, asking Revolut to refund Miss J 
in full. The investigator felt the payment Miss J made was sufficiently unusual to warrant 
intervention by Revolut. They felt that if Revolut had contacted Miss J and asked some 
questions about the payment, its likely the scam wouldve been uncovered and Miss Js loss 
wouldve been prevented.
While Miss J agreed with the investigators opinion, Revolut disagreed. Revolut raised the 
following points:
Miss J selected something else as the purpose of the payment rather than safe 
account, so they were prevented from providing a relevant warning.
Miss Js payment wasnt unusual as she had previously made large payments from 
her account including £19,450 in February 2022 and £25,000 in April 2022. They felt 
wed unfairly ignored these payments in considering the pattern of previous use 
because they were to existing payees not new payees.
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator, and Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Revolut is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But Revolut also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Its not disputed that Miss J made and authorised this payment, although I accept that this 
was as the result of a scam.
Should Revolut have done more to prevent the payment?
The relevant law and regulations, plus good industry practice and Revoluts own terms and 
conditions, suggest Revolut has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams. Where Revolut identifies transactions as being unusual or out of character, 
Id expect them to take steps to ensure the consumer isnt at risk of fraud or potentially the 
victim of a scam. 
From what Ive seen Im satisfied that Revolut shouldve identified a potential scam risk with 
the payment Miss J made in September 2022. This payment was significantly higher than 
the usual transactions made on Miss Js account. I can see that she made a payment in 
June (one month before the scam) for £4,500 and another payment for nearly £3,000 in 
September  however most of her transactions were usually for less than £2,000. So, the 
payment of over £8,000 was unusual and out of character compared to her previous account 
usage.
Revolut have referred to a payment Miss J made in April (nearly five months prior to the 
scam) for £25,000, but this was a one-off payment and Im not satisfied that this should be 
considered part of a regular spending pattern on her account. And the same applies to the payment she made in February for £19,450 which was nearly seven months before the scam 
payment.
I think its also important to take into account that the scam payment removed the entire 
balance of Miss Js account, and that there was a Confirmation of Payee no match. Both of 
these are common in safe account scams and were warning signs to Revolut that Miss J 
was potentially the victim of a scam. I think these factors added to the size of the payment 
and the previous usage of her account warranted Revolut intervening before processing the 
payment.
Having decided that Revolut shouldve identified this payment as a scam risk, Ive gone on to 
consider what I think is most likely to have happened if they had intervened.
In this case, I wouldve expected Revolut to get in touch with Miss J to find out more about 
the payment. Miss J has told us that she believed she was talking to Revolut when she was 
talking to the scammer and there is no suggestion that she was given a cover story. I think 
Revolut getting in touch wouldve broken the spell and that Miss J wouldve realised that she 
was the victim of a scam and not continued with the payment.
Revolut say they were prevented from providing Miss J with an appropriate warning because 
she selected the wrong payment purpose. However, Im not satisfied that issuing a warning 
wouldve been sufficient in this case, as I wouldve expected Revolut to have contacted    
Miss J and asked her questions about the payment  rather than relying on a warning.
Revolut have also raised concerns about why Miss J chose the payment purpose of 
something else, rather than safe account. However, Miss J isnt clear on whether the 
scammers specifically used the words safe account when talking about the steps she 
needed to take to secure her account. From what shes told us they talked about resetting 
her account by changing her sort code and account, rather than telling her she had to move 
her money to a new account  which tends be the discussion as part of a safe account 
scam. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that its more likely than not Miss J 
wouldve honestly answered any questions that Revolut asked her about the payment she 
was making and that it wouldve been quickly identified that she was the victim of a scam.
On this basis, Im satisfied that Revolut should refund the payment Miss J made.
Should Miss J have done more to mitigate her loss?
I have considered whether Miss J should share any liability for her loss with Revolut, but in 
this case Im satisfied that she is entitled to a full refund.
When the scammer called Miss J, they spoofed Revoluts genuine phone number. This 
means the phone number showing on Miss Js caller ID matched Revoluts number. The 
scammer knew Miss Js full name, her phone number and that shed been the victim of a 
phishing scam the day before. All of this combined with their ability to talk her through the 
steps required on her Revolut banking app convinced her that she was genuinely talking to 
Revolut. Im not persuaded that Miss J shouldve taken any additional steps to mitigate her 
loss in these circumstances.The level of customer service Miss J received
Having reviewed the in-app chats Miss J had with Revolut on the day she reported the scam, 
I can see that she was often left for long periods of time without a response to questions and 
that the chat was abruptly ended when the staff members shift ended. At this point Miss J 
still had questions about whether shed get her money back and what steps Revolut would 
be taking, which werent answered. In the circumstances, I think the £75 already offered by 
Revolut is fair for the poor service Miss J experienced.
Having carefully considered everything that both parties have told us, Im satisfied that 
Revolut shouldve intervened when Miss J made her payment, and such intervention 
wouldve prevented her loss. On that basis, Revolut should refund Miss J in full, and pay 
interest on that refund at 8% simple interest from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right Revolut Ltd should refund Miss J in full and pay interest on the refund at 
8% simple interest, calculated from the date of the payment until the date of settlement. 
Revolut should also pay Miss J the £75 compensation it originally offered, if it hasnt already 
done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd and require them to 
compensate Miss J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman