DRN-3570319
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc obtained an incorrect mobile number from a credit 
reference agency and used it to update his contact information without consent. 
What happened
HSBC says it reviewed Mr Bs account and found there was no mobile phone number 
recorded on its systems. HSBC contacted a credit reference agency and it supplied a mobile 
phone number for Mr B that it had on file. HSBC went on to update Mr Bs contact 
information using the mobile number provided. 
HSBC later tried to call the mobile number it obtained for Mr B but found it didnt belong to 
him. Its since come to light the mobile number belongs to Mr Bs friend, Mr W, whod 
previously helped him complete a utilities application. 
Mr B complained but HSBC didnt agree errors had been made or that it had treated him 
unfairly. An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint and said they thought 
HSBC had dealt with it fairly. The investigator thought HSBC had acted in line with the 
account terms when it obtained a telephone number for Mr B from a credit reference agency. 
Mr Bs representative asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by explaining that in this decision Im looking at whether HSBC treated Mr B, 
its customer, fairly. I understand Mr Bs friend, Mr W, brings this complaint on his behalf. And 
I understand it was Mr Ws number that was incorrectly recorded on Mr Bs contact details. 
But Mr B is the customer of HSBC which means I can look at how its actions have affected 
him. Im not going to make a decision about whether HSBC treated Mr W fairly or not. 
Mr B complains that HSBC shouldnt have tried to get a mobile number for him via a credit 
reference agency. But HSBCs account terms and conditions explains it uses a mobile 
number for various reasons, including to help prevent fraud and comply with regulatory 
obligations. HSBC has also sent us a copy of its Privacy Policy setting out how it uses 
customer information. It says HSBC can collect information about customers from a range of 
sources, including publicly available sources. 
In this case, HSBC contacted a credit reference agency in an attempt to source an up to 
date telephone number for Mr B. Whilst I appreciate this came as a surprise, I havent been 
persuaded HSBC acted unfairly or in a way that is contrary to its account terms. Theres 
nothing in the terms that says HSBC had to contact Mr B to ask for an up to date number 
before it made other enquiries. 
Ultimately, the number HSBC was given didnt belong to Mr B. We now know it was Mr Ws 
number and appears to have been incorrectly retained by the credit reference agency after 
they helped Mr B with another application. HSBC has confirmed it has removed the mobile 
number from its systems. Im satisfied thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman