DRN-2788521
The complaint
 Mrs I complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK Plc when she asked 
it to recall an online transfer shed made in error. 
Mrs I is represented by her brother in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
On 16 November 2020 Mrs I instructed Barclays to transfer almost £600 via her banking app 
to a third party. The third party was someone Mrs I had paid before  they were an existing 
payee on the account. 
After making the transfer, Mrs I noticed shed selected the wrong payee. So, she contacted 
Barclays by telephone on 10 December 2020 to report her error. And she asked it to return 
the money.
On being made aware of the problem, Barclays advised Mrs I to visit a branch to discuss the 
incorrect payment. But, on attending a branch, Mrs I was provided with a telephone number 
to contact Barclays to ask it to recall her money. When Mrs I discussed her payment with 
Barclays over the telephone, it set up a payment recall request on her behalf to try and 
retrieve her online payment. But this wasnt done until 14 December 2020. 
Barclays contacted the receiving bank on Mrs Is behalf to request consent for the return of 
the funds from the account holder. But the account holder declined to authorise the return of 
the money. So, Barclays were prevented from recalling the payment Mrs I had made. And it 
told her it couldnt return her money.
Mrs I wasnt happy with this. She didnt think Barclays had done enough to assist her in 
recalling the funds and she wasnt happy with the service she received over the telephone or 
in branch. So, she complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated Mrs Is concerns but didnt uphold her complaint. It explained that it 
had taken reasonable steps to try to recall the money Mrs I had transferred in error. And it 
didnt think it had given poor service in dealing with Mrs Is recall request.
Being dissatisfied with Barclays response to her complaint, Mrs I referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mrs I, they were persuaded 
that Barclays had used reasonable efforts to try to recall her funds. So, they didnt 
recommend upholding this part of Mrs Is complaint. But they thought there were elements of 
poor service in the time Barclays had taken to set up the recall request. And they 
recommended awarding Mrs I £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had 
experienced. 
Barclays agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs I didnt. She wanted 
Barclays to pay compensation that included the money shed transferred in error. So, she 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive read and considered everything Mrs I and Barclays have told our service, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Barclays made a mistake, or treated Mrs I unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, while I sympathise with Mrs I, having considered 
everything she and Barclays have said, I agree with our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The starting point here is that Barclays should follow its customers requests, unless theres 
good reason not to. Here, Mrs I gave it online instructions via her banking app to transfer 
almost £600 to an existing payee that had previously been set up on her account. Barclays 
did that and Im satisfied that it correctly processed the payment using the information Mrs I 
provided. 
The issue relating to where Mrs Is payment was sent wasnt caused by something Barclays 
did wrong. Unfortunately, Mrs I made an error, which she accepts. Shes told our investigator 
and Barclays that she selected the wrong payee. 
While I realise Mrs I made a genuine mistake here, it was ultimately her responsibility to 
enter the right details to make sure the transaction was made correctly. Barclays couldnt 
have known Mrs I hadnt selected the correct payee until she told it after the event. I 
therefore cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for Mrs Is mistake.
When a customer transfers money to the wrong account, our service expects the business 
that sent it to try and do what it can to help them retrieve the funds. Barclays can only 
attempt to recall and recover missing funds on a best endeavours basis. This isnt 
guaranteed to be successful. 
In thinking about whether Barclays did enough to help Mrs I Ive considered whether it 
followed the relevant guidelines and its terms and conditions, which state that it will make 
reasonable efforts to recover funds sent to an account in error. 
I can see that, once Barclays became aware of Mrs Is error, it set up a recall request on her 
behalf. Mrs I appears to believe that Barclays could have done more to assist her in 
retrieving her funds. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays used 
its best endeavours and made reasonable efforts to try to recover Mrs Is money. 
Barclays contacted the receiving bank to provide information about the transfer and made it 
clear that Mrs I wanted the funds returned to her Barclays account. I can see the receiving 
bank requested further detail about the transfer, which Barclays provided. But the payment 
beneficiary refused to return Mrs Is money. This was beyond Barclays control.
Im satisfied Barclays took all the steps it could reasonably have taken to assist Mrs I with 
the return of her transferred funds. I cant reasonably say it shouldve done more in pursuing 
the recall request on Mrs Is behalf.  But where I think Barclays could have done more is in relation to the time it took to set up the 
recall request. Ill explain why.
The first time Mrs I made Barclays aware of her error was on 10 December 2020 during a 
telephone discussion. I understand that Barclays instructed her to attend a branch due to 
communication difficulties. Like our investigator, I think if Mrs I had been given additional 
assistance in branch this could have avoided her needing to contact Barclays again by 
telephone. And I think it could have resulted in the recall request being set up before 14 
December 2020. It follows that I think there were shortfalls in the service Mrs I received.
Im not persuaded the delay Mrs I experienced changed the outcome of the recall request 
here. I say this because the payment was made on 16 November 2020. So, a delay of four 
days in setting up the recall request is unlikely to have made a material difference to how it 
progressed.
I can see that our investigator recommended that Barclays pay Mrs I £50 compensation to 
recognise distress and inconvenience she would have experienced as a result of the 
shortfall in service she received. Having thought very carefully about the impact all would 
have had on Mrs I, Im satisfied that the compensation recommended is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. Its in line with awards made by this service in 
comparable circumstances and its what Id have told Barclays to pay. So, I wont be 
ordering it to pay any more.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted promptly in advising Mrs I that it couldnt retrieve her 
money.
Under the credit payment recovery process, if it isnt possible to reclaim a payment sent in 
error, a bank must notify a customer of the outcome within 20 working days from the enquiry 
being made. 
Here, I can see Barclays followed this process correctly. I say this because it sent Mrs I 
correspondence within this timescale updating her on what efforts it had made to attempt to 
recover the payment shed made in error. This correspondence gave clear information about 
the steps Barclays had taken on Mrs Is behalf to try to recover the money. And I think 
Barclays explained clearly why it couldnt return the money to Mrs I and what next steps she 
could take if she wanted to take court action against the recipient of the money to recover it. 
I think this was good advice in the circumstances. It was in line with the credit payment 
recovery process and I think the correspondence Barclays sent Mrs I also made it clear that 
it couldnt do anymore to help her.  
Putting things right
 For the reasons already outlined, Im persuaded that Barclays should pay Mrs I £50 
compensation to recognise the delay in setting up her recall request. 
While I appreciate that Mrs I has suffered a financial loss as a result of her not receiving the 
return of her money, I cant fairly ask Barclays to compensate her for that. It made 
reasonable efforts to recover the funds Mrs I transferred in error and couldnt have done 
anything further to assist here.
 
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent that Barclays Bank 
UK Plc should pay Mrs I £50. This is to reflect the delay in it setting up her payment recall 
request. But, other than this, I dont need it to do anymore.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman