DRN-1764786
 
The complaint
Mr O's complaint is about a telephone based medical interview he undertook on 10 January 
2019 for the purpose of his Critical Illness Cover ('CIC') application with MorganAsh Ltd 
('MorganAsh'). 
Mr O says he disclosed, early in the interview, that he had a specific pre-existing medical 
condition. He says MorganAsh knew his condition disqualified him for the CIC - but he did 
not know at the time - yet he was subjected to the trouble of continuing and completing the 
entire interview. He also says MorganAsh has not since satisfied him that personal 
details collected from him have been deleted from its records. 
Mr O seeks compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the matter and for the 
mishandling of his complaint.
What happened
Having conducted the interview on 10 January, MorganAsh wrote to Mr O on 11 January 
with the outcome of his application -  declining the application because of his pre-existing 
medical condition. He complained on 14 January by telephone and MorganAsh wrote to him 
on the same date to acknowledge the complaint, to confirm an investigation and to promise 
an update to Mr O. 
MorganAsh provided its response to the complaint on 27 February, in which it apologised to 
Mr O for being put through the 'lengthy interview' despite the fact that CIC was not available 
to applicants with his condition. It also gave an assurance that corrective action had been 
taken. Mr O welcomed what was said in the response but replied to highlight what he 
considered to an absence of redress for him/his experience. A series of cross-
correspondence between both parties ensued, within which Mr O's request for deletion of his 
personal details was also raised.
By July, MorganAsh concluded its position on the matter. It wrote to Mr O on 29 July and 
said the process that was applied to his application was correct (inclusive of the 
medical interview) but it acknowledged that in his case he had the inconvenience of 
undertaking the interview without a successful CIC application as an outcome. Nevertheless, 
it repeated the corrective action it had taken (including a revision to its medical interview 
script) and confirmed that Mr O's medical details had been deleted from its records.
MorganAsh did not consider that redress to Mr O was warranted. It said his application 
decision was issued the day after the interview and that it responded to his January 
complaint in February; and it noted that it could have replied to his demands for 
compensation (and given him notice of his right to refer to this service) quicker than it did but 
its position on the complaint has remained the same as stated in its February response.
Mr O referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators looked into it and concluded 
that the complaint should not be upheld - for broadly the same reasons given by MorganAsh. Overall, she agreed that he had been subjected to an unnecessary interview but she took 
the view that the interview was a part of the application process he expected, so she was not 
persuaded that a fair claim for compensation (for the interview experience) had been 
established. She also noted that MorganAsh's complaint process was not a regulated activity 
so a claim in that respect falls outside our jurisdiction. The investigator referred Mr O to the 
Information Commissioners Office ('ICO') if he remained concerned about whether (or not) 
MorganAsh had deleted his medical details.
Mr O did not accept this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons.
With regards to Mr O's personal medical details, MorganAsh has confirmed in writing that 
they have been deleted from its records. I have not seen evidence to cast this into doubt. 
However, I appreciate that Mr O is entitled to retain any concern he might have about 
whether (or not) this has been done - or done properly. In this respect, I echo the 
investigator's reference to the ICO.
The telephone based medical interview appears to have been flawed during its application. 
The official who conducted it ought reasonably to have been aware that Mr O's condition 
disqualified him for the CIC he was applying for; ought reasonably to have declared that 
upon being told about Mr O's condition; and ought reasonably to have concluded the 
interview around such declaration (in light of the disqualification).
I understand Mr O's  strength of feeling about his time having been wasted during the 
interview and his displeasure about the futility (and compromise to his privacy) of providing 
full personal medical details which made no difference to the application's outcome. 
However, on balance, I consider MorganAsh's apologies to him to be adequate in this case. 
As the investigator noted, the interview was something Mr O was prepared to undertake for 
the purpose of his application. Aside from his feelings in hindsight, I do not consider that he 
endured trouble and upset as the interview was in progress. I do not dismiss his feelings in 
hindsight, but I am not satisfied that they warrant financial compensation - instead, I consider 
MorganAsh's apologies to be sincere and sufficient.
I observe that Mr O's trouble and upset in the matter appears to have arisen mainly from the 
months (between February and July 2019) over which he pursued, without success, financial 
compensation from MorganAsh - and much less so from the event of 10 January 2019 itself. 
After he began this pursuit in February, it would have been helpful if MorganAsh had 
promptly told him that no compensation would be offered. MorganAsh appears to concede 
this. Nevertheless, it could also be argued that it sought to give due consideration (albeit, 
with delays) to his request over time, before responding to it.
In light of my conclusion that Mr O's  complaint does not warrant financial compensation, I 
consider it fair that MorganAsh reached the same conclusion. I am not persuaded to 
compensate Mr O separately because MorganAsh delayed in expressing that conclusion to 
him. Importantly, its response in February made it implicit that it did not find grounds to 
offer compensation and that it was prepared to give an apology, only. On balance, I consider 
that this implication was enough to define MorganAsh's position to Mr O and whilst it would 
have been helpful if it had given a quicker express rejection to Mr O's express request for 
compensation, I am not persuaded that this made a worthy difference.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr O's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman