DRN-3111133
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of a charity, V, that TSB Bank PLC allowed a cheque to clear from
Vs account with only one signature, when the account requires two.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr K was appointed as treasurer of V. He undertook a review of Vs
finances and unearthed a number of issues. He says he managed to resolve all but one: a
cheque dated 17 May 2018 in the sum of £1,986, payable to a third party.
Mr K says nobody at the charity had any recollection of the reason for the payment, and
nobody knew who the payee was. V had no paperwork to support the payment and nobody
at V recognised the handwriting on the cheque, although the signatory said the signature did
look like his.
Mr K complained to TSB, saying the cheque shouldnt have been allowed to clear as the
account required two signatures and the cheque was only signed by one signatory.
On 30 April 2020, TSB issued its final response to Mr Ks complaint. It said its fraud team
couldnt review the matter as more than 13 months had passed since the payment left Vs
account. But it said its business banking team carried out a review and found no evidence of
cheque fraud. It accepted there was only one signature on the cheque, and that two were
required according to the account, and it apologised for the error.
TSB went onto say that it was upholding Vs complaint and awarded £26 by way of an
apology for neglecting to call Mr K with the outcome of its investigation, and to cover the cost
of his call to TSB. However, it made no further payment in respect of the cheque it had
allowed to clear.
Mr K remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He wanted TSB to
reimburse the value of the cheque.
Our investigator upheld Vs complaint. She said TSB was relying on clause 11.3.4 of its
terms of business to exclude liability. She said clause 11.3.4 gave V 13 months in which to 
bring a complaint about an unauthorised payment leaving Vs account, but that the
consequences of complaining outside of 13 months were only that TSB could take longer to
complete its investigation, not that TSB could decline the claim.
TSB didnt accept what our investigator said. It said it was seeking to rely on clause 11.3.3
which said TSB will only be liable if it was reasonably satisfied that the cheque payment was
not authorised by V. The implication being that it had rejected the claim in the first place,
because it hadnt seen any evidence to demonstrate the cheque was paid fraudulently.
Because our investigator couldnt reach a settlement, TSB referred the matter to an
ombudsman to issue a final decision.
On 23 September 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed TSBs submissions, I dont agree with our investigators summary of its
arguments. TSB does refer to the 13-month time limit, but it says the reason it declined Vs
claim was because it hadnt seen any evidence of cheque fraud, not because V brought its
complaint too late.
TSB has accepted that its inadequate checks allowed the cheque to clear, when it shouldnt
have. But, in essence, what it is saying is that the cheque clearing didnt cause V to suffer
any loss, because there was no evidence that V didnt intend to pay the cheque.
Equally V is not necessarily suggesting it has been defrauded, just that it cant explain the
reason for the cheque and that TSB should have stopped the cheque from being paid. The
reason it complained to TSB was because TSB allowed the cheque to clear with only one
signature and not the required two. I.e. had TSB prevented the cheque from clearing (which
it accepts it should have), the mystery wouldnt exist as V would either have discovered it
had been defrauded, or V would have arranged for a second signatory to sign the cheque, if
it was genuine.
To answer Vs question, if a bank makes an error that causes its customer loss, our service
would ordinarily tell the bank to put its customer back in the position it would have been in,
but for the error. In this case, it is not in question as to whether or not TSB made an error: as
I have said, it accepts that it did. What is in question is whether it needs to do anything more
to put matters right for V.
Ive considered the evidence V has submitted and Ive thought about what both it and TSB
have said. Having done so, I dont think TSB should have to refund the value of the cheque.
Ill explain why.
I have no reason to question what Mr K says about the findings of his investigation, and I
find him to be a credible witness. With that being said, I have to base my decision on what I
think more likely than not happened: i.e. on the balance of probabilities.
I accept its odd that Mr K cant find an explanation for the cheque, having carried out an
investigation. It also appears to be unusual that none of Vs staff recognise the handwriting
on the cheque, or the name of the payee. But that doesnt mean that V didnt intend to pay
the cheque, and Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest the cheque was forged. V
hasnt said its cheque book was stolen, either temporarily or permanently, and the signatory
accepts the signature looks like his.
While none of Vs staff recognise the handwriting on the cheque, its entirely possible that
the payee entered the details herself (aside from the signature), which is not necessarily
unusual or uncommon, and wouldnt necessarily mean the cheque was misappropriated,
particularly given the signature appears to be genuine.
While V might expect to recognise payments out of its account, the cheque in question was
written almost two years before it was reported as suspicious. Memories fade over time and
it doesnt strike me as unusual that a charity such as V might pay a one-off
supplier/contractor etc and might not necessarily have a record of all of the associated
paperwork.
It's worth noting that Im not trying to establish exactly what happened here: given the time
that passed between the cheque being written and the complaint being made, evidence isnaturally sparse so I cant accurately establish exactly what happened. Rather, what Ive
tried to do is to establish whether, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not
that V intended to pay the cheque. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I havent seen
sufficient evidence to persuade me that V did not intend to authorise the cheque. So, it
follows that I wont ask TSB to refund the cheque value.
With that being said, I am minded to make an award in favour of V, in recognition of the
trouble and upset TSB has caused. In TSBs final response letter, it started by stating its
fraud team couldnt consider the matter because more than 13 months had passed. And,
while it did say its business team had found no sign of cheque fraud, it went onto say that it
accepted it had made an error in allowing the cheque to clear, that it was upholding Vs
complaint, and that V wouldnt be left out of pocket as a result.
Given Vs complaint was that TSB shouldnt have accepted the cheque with only one
signature, and that it wanted TSB to pay the value of the cheque in resolution of its
complaint, its not surprising that V didnt understand what TSB was trying to say. Further,
had TSB stopped the cheque from clearing, Vs ensuing investigation and complaint wouldnt
have been necessary. V would have had the opportunity to find an explanation for the
cheque at the time, either re-issuing it with the correct signatories, or cancelling it if it
considered the cheque shouldnt have been paid.
So, while Im not persuaded V suffered a financial loss as a result of TSBs error, I do
consider that it was put to inconvenience as a result of TSBs error. In recognition of that
inconvenience, Im minded to award V £150 in compensation.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or submissions.
TSB didnt wish to add any further comments, but Mr K wanted me to consider the following 
matters. He said:
1. Our services website says that, if a bank pays out on a forged signature on a 
cheque, it is generally required to make good any losses;
2. That Vs account required two signatures on cheques, but the cheque in question 
only had one;
3. TSB didnt discover any evidence of fraud because its fraud department didnt look 
into it; and
4. The signatory said the signature looks like his, but the writing on the cheque isnt so 
he thinks its a forgery, and that hed never heard of the payee.
Mr K also provided contact details for Vs chair at the time the cheque was written, should I 
wish to contact him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K is right to say that our service would generally require a bank to make good a 
customers losses if it pays out on a forged signature. And I understand why he feels 
aggrieved that TSB allowed the cheque to clear with only one signature. The issue here 
though is that I havent seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate the signature was forged, or 
that V didnt intend to pay out the cheque. And, while V now says it thinks the signature on 
the cheque was forged, it hasnt provided any evidence to support that suggestion and Ive 
seen nothing to persuade me that the signature was forged. And, having undertaken a 
thorough review of the evidence both parties have submitted myself, Im not persuaded that TSBs fraud department would have discovered evidence of fraud, had they looked into it 
when V raised the complaint. TSB would have wanted to see evidence submitted by V, and 
it hasnt been able to submit any persuasive evidence now, and I see no reason why that 
would have been different at the time it reported the matter to TSB.
I addressed the remaining points about the cheque in my provisional findings, and I havent 
seen any evidence to change my mind. I have no reason to suspect Vs former chair will be 
able to provide any further evidence, beyond what V has already submitted: Mr K says he 
undertook an investigation and asked all of Vs staff at the time, so it seems unlikely the 
former chair will be able to add anything, particularly given the time has passed since the 
cheque was written.
I know this isnt the outcome V had hoped for, but for the reasons Ive set out above I see no 
reason to alter my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank PLC must pay V £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman