DRN-3891977
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lyncombe Consultants Ltd, trading as Merlyn Wealth Management, 
treated him unfairly whilst providing advice, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
In 2019, when Mr E was aged 62, he approached a financial advisor (the advisor) to seek 
advice about taking his pension early. At the time, the advisor worked for Merlyn Wealth 
Management, but for regulatory purposes was an appointed representative of a firm Ill call 
NDL here.   
The advisor recommended Mr E access his pension via a drawdown policy with Aviva Life 
and Pensions. Mr E was made aware any funds drawn down would be classed as income 
and taxed accordingly if the amount exceeded his personal allowance. The plan was set up 
in December 2019  Mr E took an immediate tax-free cash amount of just under £40,000 
and invested the remainder  just under £120,000  in the Aviva plan.
In November 2020, NDL ceased trading, and the advisor, whilst still working for Merlyn, 
became an authorised representative of Lyncombe Consultants Ltd (LCL). 
In January 2021, Mr E had an accident that meant he was unable to work for the rest of that 
calendar year. He had a yearly review meeting with the advisor on 7 December 2021, during 
which he said he wanted to drawdown £12,500 (equivalent to his personal allowance) in that 
financial year (2021/2022). He explained he wanted to use these funds, together with other 
savings he had access to, to invest in an Individual Savings Account. He also explained he 
had no other income in that tax year and so none of this amount would be subject to income 
tax. The advisor said hed arrange the relevant paperwork for this to happen.
The advisor submitted a recommendation for this proposed drawdown to LCLs compliance 
department in March 2022. It was refused, on the basis it was felt the transaction wasnt in 
Mr Es best financial interests. The advisor appealed this refusal, but the outcome remained 
the same  Mr E had access to over £100,000 of savings, which he could have used to 
invest in the ISA (and another investment) had he wished. And it wasnt best practice to 
release funds from a personal pension to invest in another speculative investment product. 
The advisor contacted Mr E on 18 March 2022, arranging a meeting for 25 March 2022. At 
this meeting, Mr E was told LCL couldnt recommend the drawdown request. Mr E 
questioned why he was only being told this then, ten days before the end of the tax year. He 
said he hadnt been made aware a compliance director, any other person, could veto a 
request to access his own personal pension. Mr E was worried hed lose the benefit of his 
tax-free allowance in that financial year. The advisor suggested the only option for Mr E to 
get his funds in that tax year was for him to be removed as Mr Es representative with Aviva, 
allowing Mr E to instruct them individually. The advisor contacted Aviva later that day and 
removed himself as Mr Es advisor (without having confirmed to Mr E that he was going to 
do this). Mr E then contacted Aviva, to be told it was now too late for him to be able to 
process a drawdown and be paid in that tax year. 
Unhappy with this, Mr E complained to LCL, but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said 
theyd considered his drawdown request, and communicated their outcome to the advisor, 
promptly. They confirmed why the advisor needed to get their authorisation to submit the 
drawdown request  as they are ultimately responsible for any advice provided, and liable if 
that advice was found to be unsuitable  and why they felt the drawdown wasnt in his best 
interests. But they did accept there had been poor service and communications and offered 
£200 compensation in recognition of this. Unhappy with this response, Mr E brought his 
complaint to this service. One of our Investigators upheld Mr Es complaint in part, 
concluding as follows: 
- This service was only able to consider complaints against LCL for issues that occurred 
after the advisor became an appointed representative of theirs  in November 2020. 
- Because NDL was no longer trading, the concerns Mr E had raised about the advisors 
actions when the Aviva plan was recommended would need to be considered by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (our Investigator has provided material from 
our files to the FSCS to support a separate complaint Mr E has raised in this regard).
- The advisors communications with Mr E were poor  there were no updates between 
the December 2021 and 25 March 2022 meetings.
- Similarly, Mr E hadnt been notified of the change of authorising firm (NDL to LCL)
- LCLs review (and re-review) of the advisors recommendation was timely, but it was too 
late by the time this was communicated to Mr E for him to have dis-instructed LCL and 
deal with Aviva directly.
- LCL ignored their own terms and conditions, which stipulated they must give 20 working 
days written notice in the event they terminated the agreement.
- LCL should pay Mr E compensation of £600 for the loss of opportunity, and the concern 
caused by their immediate removal as his representative.
LCL didnt accept the Investigators view and felt £200 was a fair compensation award. Mr E 
also didnt accept the Investigators view. Whilst accepting LCL were only responsible for the 
period after November 2020, he repeated the advisor hadnt ever mentioned the change 
from NDL to LCL or explained the importance of LCLs involvement. He was unhappy about 
the fees charged. He said the advisor had never mentioned compliance, and he should 
have been told in advance what that process was, and why it was needed. And he said hed 
felt shocked and abandoned after the advisor immediately ended his engagement with him. 
Our Investigator responded - she didnt think Mr E would have acted differently had he 
known the advisors authorisation had moved from NDL to LCL. She also reiterated she 
couldnt agree there had been a direct financial loss  Mr E may have used his savings to 
fund his investment choices, but his pension value remained untouched and invested, ready 
to be drawn down at a later date. She also felt LCLs fees had been fairly applied, as theyd 
provided advice  which is what they were engaged to do  based on Mr Es specific 
circumstances and wishes at the time. 
Further exchanges between Mr E and our Investigator took place, but Mr E remained 
unhappy with the outcome, and asked that his complaint be considered by an Ombudsman  
so its been passed to me to conduct a further independent review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.And having done so, Ive reached essentially the same outcome as our Investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will come as an extreme disappointment to Mr E, 
whose strength of feeling I acknowledge, so Ill explain why.
At the heart of this complaint is the meeting that took place between Mr E and the advisor on 
7 December 2021. Its not in dispute between the parties what was discussed. Mr E wanted 
to drawdown £12,500 from his pension before the end of the 2021/2022 tax year - an 
accident had prevented him from working in that year, and he wanted to utilise his tax-free 
allowance. Mr E wanted to use the funds, together with some savings, to pay into an Aviva 
Individual Savings Plan (ISA). It was also discussed about using a further £45,000 of his 
savings to invest in a separate general investment account (GIA)  a separate matter not 
forming part of this complaint. 
Its also not in dispute the advisor told Mr E hed undertake the necessary steps to progress 
this drawdown (and the other investments). Mr E says he was left with a clear impression  
and based on what Ive seen, I agree  that following that meeting, there wouldnt be any 
problems with his drawdown request, and hed receive the drawdown funds before the end 
of the tax year to use in the way discussed above. With that in mind, Ill now address the 
main complaint themes Mr E has raised.    
The transfer from NDL to LCL
Mr E says he was never told about this, which he should have been. Having looked at the 
evidence available, I agree with Mr E. I havent seen any evidence the advisor told Mr E 
about the problems NDL experienced, and that LCL would be replacing NDL as the entity 
that would be authorising the advisor to provide regulated advice under the Financial Service 
and Markets Act 2000. But I think its unlikely this would have made any difference here.    
Where a business has done something wrong, I need to think about what would have 
happened if it had done the right thing instead  and put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been in had the business mistake not happened. Here, that means thinking 
about what would have happened if Mr E had been told. Of course, its not possible to know 
that for certain now, so I need to think about what most likely would have happened. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest there were any problems with Mr Es relationship with the 
advisor following the 2019 advice. I believe yearly reviews took place, without issue. So, had 
the advisor told Mr E the company authorising him to provide financial advice had changed  
but in every other sense things would remain as before, with the advisor continuing to 
provide advice  I cant see any reason why that should or would have caused Mr E to 
question the advisors continuing engagement. Mr E appears to accept this point. 
Mr E also appears to suggest that, at the time of the NDL to LCL change, he should have 
been made aware that LCLs compliance function would likely have assessed the type of 
request he subsequently made more stringently that NDL would have done. I disagree. 
LCL, or NDL (or any other advisor), can only review a proposed recommendation at the time 
it is made  and a decision whether to recommend it can only be made based on the specific 
circumstances at the time. Further, Im not aware Mr E had expressed any indication that 
hed be looking to drawdown his funds to re-invest in other investment products in the future 
- so I dont think this would have been something the advisor would have needed to be 
mindful of when LCL took over the authorisation of the advisor.
The advisors actions between the 7 December 2021 and 25 March 2022 meetings The advisor submitted Mr Es drawdown (and ISA and GIA) recommendation for compliance 
approval on 9 March 2022. There had been no contact between Mr E and the advisor after 
the December 2021 meeting by this point. The recommendation was immediately assessed, 
and the advisor made aware the following day that the drawdown request wouldnt be 
approved. The advisor immediately appealed this decision (again, no contact with Mr E) but 
following a re-review the outcome remained the same. The advisor was told this on 
Thursday 17 March 2022. The advisor then called Mr E on 18 March 2022, to book a 
meeting to discuss the above outcome. The meeting was booked for the following week on 
25 March 2022. It was only at this meeting the advisor told Mr E he couldnt 
recommend/proceed with the drawdown request as previously discussed. I think there are 
two things for me to consider here. The first is the amount of time it took for the advisor to 
submit the recommendation for compliance approval. 
This was, on the face of it, a fairly straightforward potential transaction - a recommendation 
to drawdown funds from an existing plan. But I appreciate there were other elements to the 
advice/submission  the advisor needed to source potential new investments for the ISA and 
the GIA (which I note he did), and sourcing these products for Mr E would reasonably have 
taken some time. And I accept there was a Christmas and New Year holiday period in the 
middle which would have impacted too. 
The advisor was aware Mr E wanted to drawdown funds before the end of the tax year 
(Tuesday 5 April 2022). At the time the advisor submitted the recommendation, there were 
just under four weeks before the end of the tax year. Mr E has since been advised by Aviva 
that the last date for processing a drawdown request for that tax year was 21 March 2021, 
so it appears clear there was enough time, had the recommendation been approved, for the 
drawdown to have been processed in time. 
The second is whether there was an unreasonable delay in the advisor telling Mr E he 
couldnt recommend the drawdown. The advisor was aware the submission had been 
refused on 10 March 2022, so still nearly four weeks before the end of the tax year. I 
acknowledge the advisor immediately, and robustly, challenged the refusal internally at LCL. 
But, given the fast approaching tax-year end  and the advisors likely knowledge (he was a 
very experienced advisor) that any drawdown request would still need to have been 
submitted a couple of weeks before the year end to allow for processing  I think he should 
have alerted Mr E the recommendation had been refused. 
But I dont think Mr E would have immediately sought to disengage the advisor, had he been 
told then, about the non-authorisation. Mr E had clearly built up a relationship with the 
advisor by this point, whod made strong representations to LCLs compliance department. I 
think had Mr E been made aware of this, I cant discount hed have been comforted by these 
representations. Ive no reason to doubt the review, and indeed initial recommendations, 
were submitted by the advisor in good faith and fully expecting them to be authorised  and I 
think Mr E would likely have been persuaded by this too. But it could/would have allowed Mr 
E to be put on alert about his options in the event the re-review didnt change the outcome.
The advisor was made aware on 17 March 2022 that LCLs compliance position remained 
unchanged, so knew on that date he/LCL would not be able to recommend (and process) 
the drawdown request that Mr E wanted. For the same reasons mentioned above, I think the 
advisor should have told Mr E immediately what the outcome of the review was, to give Mr E 
the maximum opportunity to consider his options, and decide whether disengagement and 
approaching Aviva himself was something he would need to pursue. It would, or should, 
have been abundantly clear to the advisor Mr Es window of opportunity to process the drawdown he wanted was very small by this time. Instead, he simply called Mr E to arrange 
a face to face meeting in a further weeks time  25 March 2022. 
We now know Monday 21 March 2022 was the latest date for submitting a drawdown 
request to allow processing in that tax year, although neither party knew that at the time. 
However, had Mr E been contacted on 10 March 2022, which I think he should have been, 
hed have been put on notice there was a possibility the drawdown request may not be 
authorised by LCL. So, when it was confirmed on 17 March 2022 it wouldnt be authorised, 
he would have had two working days to contact Aviva himself. And I think, based on what 
did happen after Mr E was made aware (following the 25 March meeting), he would most 
likely have taken urgent steps to agree the disengagement and instruct Aviva himself. 
Accordingly, I think the advisors (and therefore LCLs) lack of communication between 10 
March 2022 and 25 March 2022 caused Mr E to lose out on the opportunity to contact Aviva 
and secure the drawdown of funds from his pension which was his stated intention. 
But, what loss, if any, did Mr E suffer because of this?
I acknowledge what Mr E has said on this subject but having carefully considered the 
evidence here I dont think he did suffer a loss. Ill explain why. 
I note Mr E had accessible savings of just over £100,000 at the time. He also had the Aviva 
pension pot with a broadly similar amount in it. So, two pots of cash, both with about 
£100,000 in them. Had he taken £12,500 from the pension, it would have reduced that pot 
by that amount, but it would have increased the cash pot by the same amount. The net 
result would have been the same. Mr E says he lost an amount equivalent to the tax-free 
allowance. However, I think a better description would be to say he lost the ability to use his 
tax-free allowance  it wasnt a real loss of funds, as the above basic analogy shows. 
I acknowledge Mr E says hes now having to consider taking two lots of £12,500 in one year 
and will therefore incur a tax liability of £2,500 that would otherwise have been avoided. But 
that is a choice Mr E is making. It isnt one forced upon him by the advisors actions  Mr E 
had/has access to savings that he could access if he needed £25,000 in one calendar year. 
And I appreciate too that Mr E will be eligible to draw his full state pension at the end of 
2023, which will use up most of his tax free allowance  and that future drawings from his 
pension will then most likely attract a tax charge at his marginal rate. 
So, whilst I dont think Mr E has suffered any loss of funds now, I acknowledge that at some 
point in the future its possible hell be drawing down funds (and paying tax on these) that 
would otherwise have been drawn down tax-free in the 2021/2022 tax year  and at that 
unknown date in the future his loss may be known. 
However, there are too many unknowns at this stage  tax allowances may change for 
instance, Mr Es personal circumstances are such that he never needs to drawdown the 
entirety of his pension funds - to reach a meaningful conclusion regarding how to calculate 
any such potential future loss. And, I must reiterate we are an informal dispute resolution 
service. 
As such, I agree with the approach taken by our investigator  I think Mr E experienced a 
loss of expectation, and opportunity to instruct Aviva directly, and Mr E should be paid 
compensation to reflect that loss. Ill comment below on what I think LCL should pay.
Withdrawal of the advisors servicesLCLs client agreement terms and conditions, under Section 3, Cancellation and 
Amendments Ending this agreement, says as follows:
we may terminate this agreement by giving you at least 20 business days written 
notice
LCL accept they/the advisor didnt follow these terms. The advisor contacted Aviva within 
minutes of leaving the meeting with Mr E, on 25 March 2022, to remove himself as his 
nominated advisor. The advisor said this was done to maximise the amount of time Mr E 
would have had to try and arrange the drawdown himself - it had been discussed as a 
possible solution to the drawdown problem during the meeting. But Mr E thinks the advisor 
was trying to wash his hands of Mr E, and the problems LCLs refusal to authorise the 
drawdown had created. 
On balance, I think its more likely the advisor was trying to help. It appears clear during the 
25 March meeting that Mr E remained determined to try and progress a drawdown. And it 
was similarly clear LCL would not authorise a drawdown request in the way Mr E had hoped. 
There appears to have been no middle-ground that would have allowed the advisor to 
remain engaged as Mr Es advisor, and Mr E to drawdown the funds for the reasons hed 
stated. The only immediate option appeared to be the advisor disengaging himself. And 
given what both parties have said, I think its unlikely Mr E would have refused the advisors 
offer to immediately disengage himself had he been asked  as it appears he was 
determined to explore the drawdown individually with Aviva. 
Nevertheless, I think the advisor acted inappropriately by contacting Aviva in the way he did 
without confirming to Mr E in advance what he was going to do. And Im satisfied this sudden 
development caused Mr E avoidable distress and uncertainty at that time. I think LCL should 
compensate Mr E for this too. 
The fees the advisor charged
Mr E has suggested that LCL repay the fees charged since their involvement on the basis 
theyve essentially prevented him from accessing his own pension funds. I disagree. 
Ive seen a list of the monthly servicing fees Mr E paid, both pre and post November 2020  
and its clear these remained broadly constant and in line with the fee agreement signed by 
Mr E in 2019. And Ive no reason to question that the advisor (and LCL) provided the service 
theyd agreed to provide to Mr E when the agreement started in 2019 (whilst at NDL). 
I appreciate Mr E is unhappy that his drawdown request was ultimately refused. However, 
the advisor did undertake advisory tasks in 2021/2022. And just because LCL concluded 
they couldnt authorise one part of the recommendation (they said no authorisation would 
have been needed to proceed with an ISA and GIA investment using funds from Mr Es 
existing savings), that doesnt mean they shouldnt be paid for that work. No further charges 
were levied as soon as the advisor disengaged. Accordingly, I wont be asking LCL to refund 
any charges to Mr E.
Distress and Inconvenience
Ive said above that I think LCL should pay compensation to Mr E for the distress and loss of 
expectation the advisors actions caused him. However, calculating a fair amount to 
compensate for distress isnt an exact science. 
LCL offered £200 as compensation, whereas our Investigator thought £600 was a better 
reflection of the distress and loss of expectation caused. Ive thought carefully about this and agree with the amount our Investigator suggested. Its clear to me that Mr E has experienced 
significant distress regarding the loss of opportunity to proceed with the drawdown himself. 
And the abrupt removal by the advisor of his services, whilst I acknowledge was likely to 
happen anyway, came as a shock, causing further sudden anxiety for Mr E. Its for these 
reasons that I feel LCLs offer is too small and £600, in total, is a better reflection of the total 
distress caused. And this is the amount I think LCL should pay to Mr E.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint against Lyncombe Consultants Ltd, trading as Merlyn Wealth 
Management, and require them to pay Mr E £600 in total compensation (to include the £200 
previously offered, if not already paid) for distress and loss of expectation and opportunity. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman