DRN-3650281
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct bank, prevented him from 
making payments to his daughter. Hed like his account unrestricted and compensation for 
the impact. 
What happened
Mr P has an account with first direct. 
Mr Ps been making regular international payments to family members, on his daughters 
behalf, for a variety of reasons including paying for courier services, medication and medical 
costs. 
First direct first raised concerns to Mr P in 2017 advising they were worried about substantial 
funds being transferred internationally. But Mr P assured the bank it wasnt a scam, and he 
wanted to continue payments. 
In October 2021 Mr P phoned first direct to make an international payment for his daughter. 
First direct raised further concerns about the possibility he was being scammed. 
On 29 April 2022 Mr P phoned first direct to make a payment for his daughter. They allowed 
the payment to go through, but explained due to concerns that almost £3,000 had been sent 
during April they wouldnt send any further payments without invoices. 
On 11 May 2022 Mr P phoned first direct regarding a payment for medicine and hospital 
care, at a hospital Ill call C, for his daughter. First direct wanted further evidence from Mr P 
to allow the payment  and werent satisfied with the invoices provided. Mr P argued that 
every day the payments werent made the bill increased and he was under a high level of 
pressure from his family to pay the hospital costs. 
First direct didnt accept the evidence Mr P provided, and wouldnt make the payment. Mr P 
complained but first direct reviewed their position and concluded theyd acted fairly. They 
advised Mr P that they wouldnt be able to send the funds until theyd received written 
confirmation from the hospital advising Mr Ps daughter had been admitted. 
Mr P provided documentation to first direct  including invoices, and emails from a member 
of staff who he believed worked in Cs HR department. 
First direct contacted C, however they were advised the invoices werent accurate and the 
member of staff didnt work at Cs HR department. Therefore first direct wouldnt allow the 
payment to be carried out. 
Mr P wasnt happy with first directs response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. First direct 
explained Mr P had access to cash withdrawals and chip and PIN transactions. However, 
theyd added a restriction for online usage which meant Mr P needed to phone first direct to 
get these authorised. Our investigator emphasised with Mr P, but felt that first direct had 
acted in Mr Ps best interests and as per the terms and conditions of his account in trying to 
protect him from being a victim of financial harm. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators conclusions. He argued that his ex-wife had sent some 
old invoices to first direct which is why they believed it was a scam. And every day the 
payments werent made for his daughters hospital care a 10% charge was added on. 
Mr Ps also said he hadnt been able to pay for his daughters flight back to the UK via his 
first direct account. And he tried to make an online payment for a household service, but first 
direct told him theyd only allow payments to a supermarket he uses regularly. 
Our investigator contacted first direct to query whether this was the case, but first direct 
confirmed theyd made an error and Mr P could make domestic online payments. However, 
hed need to phone first direct to enable the payment to be processed. 
As Mr P didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered industry best practice when looking at Mr Ps complaint and reviewed the 
terms and conditions of his account. 
First direct, along with all banks, have a legal and regulatory responsibility to monitor 
accounts and any payments made or received to counter various risks, including anti-money 
laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams. This all 
forms part of their overall responsibility to protect customers from financial harm. 
The BSI code for protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial 
abuse, 31 October 2017, made a number of recommendations on good industry practice. 
And it highlights what banks should look for to identify customers at risk of harm. This 
includes:
A sudden increase in spending
Transfers to other accounts 
A withdrawal or payment for a large amount 
Financial activity that matches a known method of fraud or financial abuse 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account, and in doing so Ive thought about 
whether first direct acted fairly in refusing to make certain payments. Ive considered 
specifically the section titled Well make a payment from your account if we can, but there 
are some reasons we may not be able to
First direct thought Mr P was the victim of a scam. Having looked at the evidence he 
provided to them and information theyve received from C, showing that the documentation 
Mr P provided didnt match hospital records, I cant say their suspicions were unreasonable 
here. First direct decided initially to put in place a requirement for Mr P to phone them to 
make any online payments, then they asked for invoices for any international payments and 
more recently advised they wouldnt make any further international payments. Looking at the 
size of the international payments made and the inconsistency of the testimony and 
evidence hes provided, Im satisfied theyve acted in his best interests. And I think the level 
of additional security theyve put in place, and the refusal to make certain payments, isnt 
unreasonble. I appreciate Mr P believes hes not been the victim of a scam  however as outlined in the 
BSI code, first direct have a responsibility to protect him from financial harm, and I think they 
acted fairly based on the informaton available to them. 
Recently Mr P attempted to make a payment for an online service in the UK. But, he was 
incorrectly advised by first direct that this payment wouldnt be authorised. I understand his 
frustration here, and I agree first direct made an error which caused him inconvenience. 
However, first direct have confirmed this isnt their approach to his account  and he can 
make cash withdrawals, chip and PIN and domestic online payments. Id like to reassure 
Mr P that Ive not seen any evidence first direct are attempting to prevent him from making 
legitimate payments. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr P however I wont be asking first direct to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman