DRN-4240136
The complaint
A company which Ill call F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc acted unfairly when it 
closed their accounts without notice and provided poor customer service. 
The complaint is brought on Fs behalf by one of their directors, Mr R.
What happened
F told us:
They had asked Barclays to contact them using their email address or the secure 
messaging system, but the bank hadnt done so. 
They received contact from someone saying they were from Barclays at the end of 
October 2022 however the contact wasnt professional, and they were worried this 
was part of a scam.
Barclays had been undertaking some checks on their account, they had provided the 
requested information and received a letter on 28 October 2022 saying everything 
had been received and to ignore any notice to close notification. Fs directors had 
then gone abroad for several weeks.
Whilst their directors had been abroad, Barclays had written to them on several 
occasions and then sent a letter saying their accounts would be closed on 16 
January 2023. They felt the accounts had been closed without notice or reason which 
was unfair.
Barclays actions had caused upset to the directors and cost and disruption to the 
business as they werent able to access their historic information. 
Barclays told us:
It emailed Mr R asking him to contact the bank about Fs account on 25 October 
2022, 26 October 2022 and wrote to F on 31 October 2022 and 8 November 2022 to 
request the outstanding information but this wasnt received. 
F had been contacted from and requested to call a direct personal contact number, 
as this would have taken Mr R to the contact handler as they were best placed to 
deal with the outstanding requests for F. 
It sent a notice to close letter on 17 November 2022 giving F two months notice in 
line with the account terms and conditions and the account had been closed correctly 
in line with its process. However, it wouldnt confirm why it had made the decision to 
close Fs account. 
It agreed that undertaking two different checks on Fs account at the same time had 
caused confusion and inconvenience, so it apologised and offered F £300 
compensation. It had also provided the historic account information which had been 
requested. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Fs complaint be upheld. She thought that it was 
reasonable for Barclays to undertake more than one review of an account at the same time. 
She acknowledged that Mr R was unhappy at how hed been contacted by the bank, 
however it wasnt always possible for it do so using its secure message service. The 
investigator also said that Barclays had told Mr R that its contact was genuine when hed 
called in December 2022, so he could have provided the information at that point but chose 
not do so. So she thought the account had fairly been closed in line with the terms and 
conditions, and the £300 offered by the bank for the confusion was enough to put things 
right. 
Mr R didnt agree. In summary he said the bank hadnt made him aware it was undertaking 
different reviews and he still didnt know why Fs accounts had been closed or what 
additional information was needed. Mr R also said when he left to go abroad, as far as he 
was aware Barclays had all the information it needed but when he returned, it had decided to 
close his account which was unfair. So he asked for an ombudsman to review Fs complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why.
Mr R says that Barclays closed Fs accounts unfairly and without giving notice or reason. But 
Im not persuaded that it didnt give F any notice. I say that because Ive seen that Mr R 
received emails on 25 and 26 October 2022 from Barclays and chose not to contact the case 
handler who wanted to discuss the check being undertaken by the bank. I acknowledge that 
Mr R says he found the content of these emails unusual and had concerns about who he 
was speaking to. However, Ive also seen that the case handler explained in their emails that 
Mr R could confirm with Barclays over the phone or in a branch that he worked for the bank 
and what was required  he also confirmed that Mr R could independently verify the contact 
numbers hed provided. But Mr R chose not to do so. So I think Mr R ought reasonably to 
have been aware that Barclays needed some information from F about their account from 
the tone and volume of contact they were receiving from the bank.
Mr R told us that he received a letter from Barclays dated 28 October 2022 - a couple of 
days before he went abroad - so he believed the issue with Fs account had been resolved. 
Its not disputed by either party that Barclays could have been clearer when it wrote to F in 
this letter and said it now had all the information required. However, Ive seen that the bank 
wrote to F on several occasions after this letter had been sent, as it still required further 
information. I recognise that Mr R says he thought the banks request for documentation had 
crossed over with this letter and he didnt notice there were different reference numbers on 
the letters. However, I think its reasonable to believe that given the persistent contact from 
the bank and requests for urgent contact they were receiving that Fs directors ought to have 
been aware that they needed to contact the bank to query why F was still receiving ongoing 
communication requests from it which it appears were out of character.
I acknowledge that Mr R says he was abroad after hed received the letter of 28 October 
from the bank, so he wasnt aware after this date that there was an issue. However, I cant 
reasonably hold the bank responsible for this, as Ive havent seen any evidence that Mr R 
made it aware that Fs directors would be abroad so it could provide the letters in an 
alternative format or wait for further action until their return. I also acknowledge that Mr R says there was no contact from the bank after it had sent the three closure letters in 
November, and that it could have contacted him by an alternative method. However, the 
bank isnt obligated to do this, and will contact customers by post about certain actions if it 
believes this is the way for it to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. This is a 
commercial decision the bank is able to make. 
Furthermore, as the bank didnt receive a response saying the post had been returned as 
undelivered, and it had given F the required two months notice - in line with the account 
terms and conditions - it continued with its process believing that F was aware of the account 
closure. Ive also seen that Mr R spoke to the bank in December 2022, and it confirmed that 
the requests had been genuine, however he didnt contact the bank to provide the required 
information, so the bank continued with the account closure as planned. Therefore, I cant 
say Barclays acted unreasonably here and didnt give F any notice of the account closure. 
And it follows I also dont agree that F wasnt given reasonable opportunity to obtain the 
historical account information it required and seek alternative banking facilities as their 
account was fully active until the closure date.   
I also acknowledge Mr R says its unfair that Barclays wont tell him the reason that it closed 
Fs account. However, the bank is entitled to make the decision to terminate a relationship 
with a customer and the terms and conditions of the account allow it to do so as long as it 
has given the required notice period  which Ive seen was the case here. And whilst I 
recognise the frustration caused to Mr R by Barclays decision not to disclose the reason it 
closed Fs account, the bank isnt obligated to share more information that it already has, 
and I cant fairly require it to do so.
Mr R told us that the directors had been caused distress and inconvenience due to Barclays 
actions. But this complaint has been brought on Fs behalf, so F is the eligible complainant. 
This means that I cant look at any distress or inconvenience caused to the directors in a 
personal capacity. Limited companies like F, as corporate bodies rather than individuals, are 
not capable of suffering distress, which means I can only look at the inconvenience caused 
to F by Barclays actions.
Its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and I can see that Barclays 
has apologised for giving Mr R unclear information and offered F £300 for the inconvenience 
caused. Given that I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in closing Fs accounts, I think 
its done enough to put things right.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay £300.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman