DRN-2936882
The complaint
Mr L complains that an automatic teller machine (ATM) machine failed to dispense the 
correct amount of cash and Santander UK Plc refused to refund the missing funds.
What happened
Mr L made two separate withdrawals from an ATM run by a third party. On both occasions, 
the machine failed to dispense the full amount hed asked for. 
Mr L reported the missing funds to Santander and on both occasions they told Mr L theyd 
temporarily credit his account with the missing funds while they investigated his reports. Mr L 
was told that if the ATM provider proved the cash was dispensed, the refunds would be 
taken back out of his account.
Santander asked the issuing ATM provider to send them evidence of what had happened 
when Mr L used the machine. On both occasions, the ATM provider sent Santander 
evidence that showed the cash was successfully dispensed to Mr L and there were no 
excess funds left in the machine  known as overage.
Santander wrote to Mr L and told him that because the ATM provider had confirmed the 
correct amount of cash was dispensed on both occasions, the temporary refunds he 
received would be taken back out of his account within 14 days. 
The refunds were taken, leaving Mr Ls account overdrawn for about a week. Santander 
recognised that Mr L could have had a better experience when he was dealing with them 
and awarded him £40 compensation. 
Mr L was unhappy with how Santander dealt with his losses and their refusal to refund him. 
He brought his complaint to our service for an independent review which was looked into by 
one of our investigators. He thought the evidence Santander had relied on was sufficient for 
them to deny Mr L a refund and didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of the complaint which has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has complained about losses he suffered when he used an ATM machine which wasnt 
operated by Santander. The procedure for Santander to follow when they were notified of 
the problem by Mr L is to raise it with the operator of the ATM.
Santander raised the losses with the operator and required them to provide evidence of the 
withdrawal. 
ATM machines will usually produce detailed transaction and audit data every time someone 
uses the machine. They often record, amongst other things, the date and time, card number, 
how much was requested and whether it was taken from the machine. 
Sometimes these machines dont operate properly though. In cases where there is a 
problem with the cash dispensed, the machine is designed to reflect that in the audit log. If 
the machine had failed to dispense the money to Mr L, I would expect to see that recorded in 
the audit data. The audit sent by the operator of the ATM shows, on both occasions, the 
successful withdrawal of cash requested by Mr L.
If the machine hadnt properly dispensed the cash, it would have more cash left in the 
machine than it should have - called overage. The operator of the machine confirmed to 
Santander that there was no overage. That means the machine had dispensed the correct 
amount of cash to each person whod used it, including Mr L. The data also shows 
successful withdrawals both before and after Mr L used the ATM. Because the audit data 
showed successful withdrawals and there were no excess funds left in the machine, I think 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably when they held Mr L responsible for the withdrawals. 
It follows that it was fair for them to take the temporary refunds back.
I recognise the removal by Santander of the first refund took Mr Ls account into debit  
meaning he had a negative balance on the account. Santander gave Mr L two weeks notice 
of the removal which enabled Mr L to prepare for the refund to be taken from his account, 
which is what Id expect them to do. As Ive found that it was more likely than not that the 
ATM machine dispensed the correct funds requested by Mr L, Santanders temporary credit 
wasnt necessary and the resulting changes in the account were artificial  caused by Mr Ls 
claim that the money wasnt dispensed. So, I dont think that Santander were responsible for 
causing the overdraft.
When Mr L raised the ATM dispensing problem with Santander, his chat conversation was 
cut off before he had a chance to respond to the advisor. Santander accepted theyd let Mr L 
down with their level of service and paid £40 as a gesture of goodwill for the service he 
received. This was a customer service failure and didnt have any lasting impact on Mr L, so 
I dont think an increase in this amount is necessary. I recognise it would have been 
frustrating for Mr L to have a conversation abruptly ended by the advisor and I think 
Santanders recognition of that with the payment of £40 was both fair and reasonable. 
Whilst Im sure Mr L will disagree with me, Ive taken everything into account and my 
objective conclusions are that it was more likely than not that on both occasions, the ATM 
machine correctly dispensed the appropriate funds requested by Mr L. Santander paid an 
appropriate amount of compensation for their customer service failure and I wont be asking 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman