DRN-1639594
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr G in 2002. The policy 
provided cover for Mr G if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr Gs needs?
-           Did Santander give Mr G the information he needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
G is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr G says he was put under pressure by Santander to buy the PPI, and that he wasn't given 
a proper choice. He says he was given the impression he had to take the PPI to get the 
mortgage he wanted. Ive noted everything Mr G has said.
Santander hasnt been able to provide much information from the time the policy was sold. 
Thats not surprising as it was many years ago, and its similar to other cases Ive seen.The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr G and Santander 
when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
So without anything else to support what Mr G has told me, I don't think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to conclude that Santander didn't make him aware the PPI was optional. 
Santander has accepted that Mr G was advised to take out the policy and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-           There is nothing to suggest that Mr G wasnt eligible for the policy. 
-           Mr G says he would have received generous work-related benefits if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident, and that his friends and family would've helped if things went 
wrong. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr G's occupational benefits and 
would've meant he could use those benefits to pay for other expenses. And it would've 
meant Mr G didn't have to rely on his friends and family. So I think Mr G would have had 
some use for the policy despite his existing arrangements.
-           Mr G wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was made clear to Mr G before he agreed to 
buy it. But Mr G chose to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said, Mr G wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr G would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman