DRN-2835598
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU Mutual) wont amend the recorded cost of settling a claim under their home 
insurance policy even though it was only its poor handling of the claim which caused the cost 
to be so high.
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their policy after their home was damaged by an 
escape of water from a shower.
NFU Mutual accepted the claim and arranged for repair work to be carried out. However, the 
repair work did not progress as planned and had to be re-done several times over the course 
of 18 months due to further leaking from the re-fitted shower.
In 2020, NFU Mutual invited Mr and Mrs C to renew their policy. Mr and Mrs C noted the 
premium had increased significantly since 2019. They considered switching to another 
insurer and asked NFU Mutual for the recorded cost of the claim. NFU Mutual advised that it 
was £29,716.
Mr and Mrs C found it difficult to obtain a suitable alternative policy and hence renewed their 
cover with NFU Mutual. However, they considered that the recorded cost of the claim was 
significantly more than the amount the claim would have cost had it been handled properly 
and that this was affecting the cost of their cover. They complained to NFU Mutual.
NFU Mutual didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It said the cost of the claim had not 
affected their premium and that there were other reasons for the increase at the time of the 
2020 renewal.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy at NFU Mutuals response. They referred their complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I considered the complaint should be upheld. 
My findings were as follows:
Mr and Mrs C made a previous complaint to NFU Mutual about the way the claim was 
handled. NFU Mutual issued a final response to this complaint in July 2018. It acknowledged 
that the claim had been mishandled and stated:
I would like to reassure you, your claims costs will not be affected by the remedial 
work that is required, as discussed all costs associated with your claim are being 
reviewed to ensure your policy will not be affected by any unnecessary costs.
NFU Mutual has provided evidence relating to how it calculated Mr and Mrs Cs renewal 
premium in 2020. I cant reveal details of this because it is commercially sensitive. However, 
Im satisfied that while the claim itself has affected the premium, the fact that it has cost 
more than it should have done has had no effect. In that respect, Mr and Mrs C have not 
been disadvantaged by the inflated cost of the claim.
However, in its final response above, NFU Mutual assured Mr and Mrs C that the claims cost 
would not be affected by the remedial work. NFU Mutual appears to have made no attempt 
to adjust the recorded claims cost as it promised. While this may have not affected the 
premium offered by NFU Mutual, it may have affected the terms of cover offered by other 
insurers. As a result, by failing to do what it promised, NFU Mutual has potentially 
disadvantaged Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C have suggested that the true cost of the claim should be less than £10,000. 
I dont have information to show how much the claim would have cost had it not been for the 
errors. However, I consider that NFU Mutual should amend the recorded cost of the claim to 
reflect this amount, as it promised it would. NFU Mutual should confirm this cost in its 
response to this provisional decision.
In the absence of precise knowledge of other insurers underwriting methods, it is difficult to 
know whether and to what extent the inflated cost may have disadvantaged Mr and Mrs C. 
However, their broker considered it was likely to have affected their ability to obtain a 
competitive quote from another insurer and from my experience I agree that this was likely to 
be the case. I consider that if Mr and Mrs C had been able to declare that the claim had cost 
less than £10,000, it is likely they could have obtained a cheaper policy offering comparable 
cover from elsewhere. With this in mind, I think a fair outcome would be that NFU Mutual 
pays Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation which is equivalent to almost 25% of their premium 
at the 2020 renewal.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs C accepted my provisional decision though they questioned how the 
compensation amount had been calculated and mentioned the stress which had been 
caused due to the repair work having to be re-done several times. They considered that if 
done properly the first time, the cost of the work should not have exceeded £6,000.
NFU Mutual accepted my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change this.
Mr and Mrs C ask how my proposed compensation of £300 was calculated. As implied in my 
provisional decision, I am basing it on what I think they might have been able to save by 
obtaining cover from an alternative insurer if they had been able to declare that the claim 
had cost less than £10,000. I note that Mr and Mrs C refer to the stress caused by the need 
for the repair work to be re-done several times. However, their complaint to us was simply 
about the recorded cost of the claim and this is all I have considered in my decision.
In my provisional decision, I asked NFU Mutual to confirm what the true cost of the claim 
would have been had it not been for the errors. NFU Mutual did not do this in its response, 
though it accepted my provisional decision which implies that it accepts the cost should have 
been less than £10,000. Mr and Mrs C believe the cost should have been no more than 
£6,000. In the absence of any opinion from NFU Mutual as to what the cost should have 
been, I consider it reasonable to take Mr and Mrs Cs estimate and conclude that the 
recorded cost should be £6,000.My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint.
I require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do the following:
amend the recorded cost of the claim on internal and external databases to £6,000; and
pay Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman