DRN-1432978
Complaint
Miss R says Oakam Limited (Oakam) irresponsibly provided a number of unaffordable 
instalment loans to her.                           
Background
This complaint is about thirteen instalment loans that Oakam provided to Miss R from June 
2008 onwards. Miss Rs last loan was provided in May 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Rs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 5 to 13. Oakam disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R 
could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
done so and looked at the overall pattern of Oakams lending history with Miss R, I think that Oakam should reasonably have seen that Miss R was unlikely to have been able to make 
her payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 5. 
I say this because by this stage, Miss Rs pattern of borrowing, of coming back for further 
funds before having repaid what she already owed, indicated that her loans mightve 
become unsustainable for her. Indeed by this stage Miss R had been in debt to Oakam for a 
period of almost three years and now owed more than what she did in June 2008. And by 
loan 13 Miss R owed substantially more despite having made payments for 10 years.
In these circumstances I would have expected Oakam to have no longer simply accepted 
what it was being told at face value but instead have taken steps to verify Miss Rs actual 
financial position. Had Oakam have done this it would more likely than not have seen that 
Miss R clearly didnt have the disposable income to sustainably repay her loans and that is 
why she kept coming back for further funds. 
Oakam continued lending to Miss R even when this pattern was repeated for a further seven 
years and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans 
were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Indeed it seems to me that the only reason Oakam stopped lending when it did was because 
Miss R was no longer able to scrape together the funds needed to make her payments. And 
as a result it sold the debt on to a third-party.
Miss R ended up paying interest on a number of loans she shouldnt have been provided 
with. So I think that she lost out because of what Oakam did wrong and Oakam should put 
things right.
Putting things right  what Oakam needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss R paid on loans 5 to 12;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges added to loan 13 from the outset. Any payments that 
Miss R made, including any amounts paid to any third-party debt purchaser, should 
be applied to the new starting balance (the amount originally lent). If Miss R has 
already paid more than what she was originally lent any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to Miss R (with interest of 8% simple from the date paid 
to the date of settlement). If after all adjustments have been made an outstanding 
balance remains on loan 13, Oakam can deduct this from the compensation it now 
needs to pay Miss R;
 
all reference to loans 5 to 13, should any remain, should be removed from Miss Rs 
credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest. Oakam must 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Rs complaint. Oakam Limited 
should pay Miss R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman