DRN-4401094
The complaint
Ms B and Mr C are complaining that Covea Insurance plc avoided their commercial property 
insurance policy and declined a claim they made for a leak to their roof.
Mr C has acted on behalf of Ms B and himself throughout this claim and complaint.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr C contacted his broker to report a leak to his flat roof and asked if this was 
covered under the commercial property insurance policy it had arranged for him and Ms B. 
The broker said it would contact Covea  the insurance provider  to make further enquiries 
as it said it wasnt aware the roof was flat.
Covea investigated the claim and, in October 2022, it wrote to Mr C to say it was avoiding 
the insurance policy because it said it wouldnt have insured the property had it known the 
roof was 60% flat. However, it acknowledged it had taken a long time to make this decision 
and offered to pay £500 in compensation. Mr C didnt think Coveas decision was fair so he 
referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint as he said Covea hadnt shown it wouldve acted 
differently had it known about the flat roof. So he thought it should remove any record of the 
policys avoidance and reconsider the claim.
Mr C accepted the investigators opinion. However Covea didnt respond, so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
Since then, Covea responded to provide evidence that it says shows it wouldnt have insured 
Ms B and Mr C had it known the true nature of the roofs construction. So the investigator 
then changed his opinion. He thought that the true nature of the roof hadnt been presented 
to Covea and he was satisfied Covea wouldnt have provided the insurance had this been 
done. So he didnt think it was unfair for Covea to have avoided the insurance policy.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said the roof was a mansard roof and not flat. So 
he didnt think agree hed provided incorrect information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015, This required Ms B and Mr C to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to Covea so that it had enough information to assess the 
level of risk it was willing to provide and on what terms. 
And if they fail to do this, Covea has certain remedies provided the failure to make a fair 
presentation is  what the Insurance Act describes  as a qualifying breach. For it to be a 
qualifying breach Covea has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or 
not at all if Ms B and Mr C hadnt made the breach.
If the qualifying breach was reckless or deliberate and Covea can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the policy. If the breach wasnt 
deliberate or reckless, then to avoid the policy, Covea must show it would not have offered 
the policy at all if it wasnt for the breach.
If Covea is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it doesnt have to deal with any claims under 
it. If the qualifying breach wasnt deliberate or reckless and Covea would have charged a 
higher premium if the consumer had made an actual fair presentation of the risk, it will have 
to consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
Covea doesnt think Ms B and Mr C acted deliberately or recklessly. So, in essence, there 
are two questions that I first have to ask to decide whether Coveas decision was fair and 
reasonable:
1. Did Mr C fail to make a fair presentation of the risk; and, if so
2. Has Covea shown it wouldnt have provided the insurance policy had it been given a fair 
presentation of the risk?
I shall consider each point separately.
Fair presentation of the risk
Ms B and Mr C took out the insurance policy through a broker. So it was the brokers 
responsibility to carry out the fair presentation of the risk on their behalf. However, Im only 
considering Coveas actions in this case. Ms B and Mr C will need to refer to the broker 
directly if they have any concerns about anything the broker may or may not have done.
In this case, Covea has set out in the statement of fact the information it asks. The statement 
of fact says:
The Property is of standard construction having walls built only of brick, stone or concrete 
and a roof constructed of slate, tiles, concrete or metal.
The roof was not entirely constructed of slate, tiles, concrete or metal as its partly 
constructed by felt and timber, so I dont think there Ms B and Mr C made a fair presentation 
of the risk.
Has Covea shown it would have acted differently?
Covea has explained to Ms B and Mr C that it doesnt provide insurance where the roof is 
more than 50% flat. Mr C disputes that the roof is more than 50% flat and he says its a 
mansard roof which isnt fully flat. However, the relevant issue isnt whether the roof was flat 
or not, but whether the Covea would have provided the insurance had it known the true 
nature of the roofs construction  its the construction of the roof thats in question here.
Covea has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain how it 
assesses risk. Im afraid I cant share that information with Ms B and Mr C, but Ive 
considered it carefully. When doing so, insurers take into account a large number of factors. 
And Im satisfied that, had Ms B and Mr C explained that the roof wasnt of standard 
construction  i.e. that it was not entirely constructed of slate, tiles, concrete or metal as its 
partly constructed by felt and timber  Covea has shown that it wouldnt have provided the 
insurance policy.Can Covea avoid the insurance policy?
Ultimately, given Im satisfied that Ms B and Mr C didnt do a fair presentation of the risk to 
Covea and Covea has shown it wouldnt have offered the policy if Ms B and Mr C hadnt 
made the breach, it would be considered a qualifying breach under the Insurance Act 2015. 
As I said above, Covea doesnt consider the qualifying breach to be deliberate or reckless, 
but it has shown it wouldnt have provided the insurance if the breach hadnt taken place. 
The Insurance Act 2015 sets out that Covea can avoid the insurance policy in these 
circumstances. So I cant say that Covea has acted unfairly. 
However, I also recognise that Covea has caused significant delays and confusion in the 
handling of this claim. Covea has recognised this and offered £500 in compensation. This is 
in line with what I would have awarded, so I think its fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Covea Insurance plcs 
offer to pay £500 in compensation is fair. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman