DRN-2978279
The complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined his claim for damages under his home 
building insurance policy.
Mr S is represented in this case by Mr R, but I will refer to Mr S throughout for ease of 
reading.
What happened
Mr S discovered a property he lets out, had been used to grow cannabis. The property was 
damaged as a result of this and he made a claim to Allianz under his policy.
Allianz declined the claim. It says the property was let out on a residential basis to a tenant 
Mr S hadnt carried out any background or credit checks on. It says the terms of the policy 
cover Malicious Damage by Residential Tenants, but only where written and verified 
references have been obtained. 
Mr S says cover for malicious damage is provided for under Additional Cover. But also, 
under the standard cover section of the policy. He acknowledges the standard policy 
excludes, damage caused by a Tenant or their family occupying the building or portion of 
any Building for residential purposes. But says the damage was unlikely to be caused by 
the tenant, or his family, as it isnt known if this person exists.  
Mr S argues the tenant, or their family werent occupying the property as every part of it 
was used to cultivate cannabis plants. He thinks this means the policy should pay for the 
damage caused.   
Allianz says this is a residential property and it was let out by Mr S on that basis. It doesnt 
dispute the probable involvement of a criminal gang, but says the unrestricted access 
required to run the cannabis farm, was facilitated by the tenant.
One of our investigators reviewed the matter. She didnt uphold the complaint. She felt the 
policy terms were clear. She decided Mr S was not covered for malicious damage by either 
the standard or additional cover included with the policy in these circumstances.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. This has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. I appreciate this is not the 
answer he wanted, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Mr S says he is covered for the damage caused to his property by the policy terms and 
conditions set out on page seven, which say:
Insured Perils; The following are the Insured Perils operative unless stated in the 
Schedule
6. Riot civil commotion strikers locked out workers persons taking part in labour disturbances 
or malicious persons. 
The policy has the following exclusion:
Excluding Damage d) caused by a Tenant or their family occupying the Building or portion 
of any Building for residential purposes. 
Mr S acknowledges the exclusion. However, he says there is no evidence the damage was 
caused by the tenant or their family. He says its likely this was caused by a criminal gang. 
He also says that whoever the person is listed on the tenancy, its probable they are a front 
for this commercial criminal activity. Because of this he doesnt accept that an exclusion 
applies, and the damage should be covered. 
In its final decision email, Allianz accepts the cultivation of cannabis plants was the primary 
use of the property. But it maintains this is a residential property and was let out by Mr S 
under a residential tenancy agreement, not on a commercial basis. The company says that 
in order to establish a drug farm, unrestricted access to the property was required. It says 
this was facilitated by the individual Mr S made the tenancy arrangement with.
I have thought about whether the policy excludes the claim as suggested by Allianz. I 
acknowledge Mr S view. But its true to say that he let out his property on a residential basis. 
The tenant entered into this agreement, which allowed occupation of the property. From here 
the property was used to cultivate cannabis plants. Damage was caused as a result of the 
tenant occupying the property, under a residential agreement. In these circumstances I think 
Allianz acted reasonably when excluding the claim under this insured peril.   
Allianz also refers to the additional cover under Mr S policy, which provides for malicious 
damage. This says:
Malicious Damage by Residential Tenants
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured against Damage caused by the malicious actions of a 
Tenant or their family occupying the Building or portion of any Building for residential 
purposes The liability of the Insurer under this Additional Cover shall be restricted to the 
Sums Insured stated in the Schedule for any one loss.    
Conditions
It is a condition precedent to the Insurers liability under this Additional Cover that
a) the Insured or authorised persons acting on their behalf or their managing agents shall in 
each instance obtain and retain written and verified references for all residential Tenants or 
prospective residential Tenants
b) the Insured must produce such written references if so requested by the Insurer in the 
event of a claim under this Additional Cover.
Allianz says Mr S confirmed at the time of his claim in March 2021 that he had performed no 
background or credit checks on the tenant. It says covid-19 restrictions were given as the 
reason this could not be done. Allianz disagrees that this prevented checks from taking 
place. 
Having considered this point, I note Mr S doesnt dispute that no references were obtained. 
He hasnt explained in any detail why it was not possible to obtain this information. I accept that restrictions were in place due to the pandemic. However, Im not persuaded that 
reference checks couldnt be completed based on the information provided to me.    
I have thought about whether Allianz acted fairly in relying on the policy terms here. 
The definition section of the policy terms doesnt define malicious damage. However, we 
would expect this to mean an intention to do harm. In this case there was an intention to 
create a cannabis farm and thereby cause damage deliberately. I think its reasonable to say 
this meets the definition and the damage would be considered malicious. 
However, the exclusion relied on by Allianz, is clear in requiring Mr S to obtain and retain 
references for his tenant. This wasnt done. So, I cant fairly say Allianz acted unreasonably 
in relying on the policy terms when excluding Mr S claim on this basis. 
Mr S says this term is buried in the small print and is not something a layman policyholder 
would read. 
I have read the policy terms. I think they are clearly set out. The exclusion is written below 
the terms for Malicious Damage by Residential Tenants. Its on the same page under the 
heading of Conditions. As with any insurance policy, terms and conditions apply. Im 
satisfied this information was available to Mr S. I also think its reasonable to say that its 
accepted practice for checks to take place, in order to establish a tenants identity. 
In considering all of this I think Allianz acted fairly in declining the claim for the reasons set 
out in this decision. I can sympathise with the predicament Mr S finds himself in, which must 
be distressing. However, I cant reasonably ask Allianz to do more to resolve his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman