DRN-3317509
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) is seeking to 
charge him for damage to a car he took under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr B entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a new 
car. Under the agreement, Mr B could return the car before the end of the hire purchase 
period. If he did so, he would have to pay no more than half the total due under the 
agreement  that is, just under £36,000. The relevant part of the agreement said: If you 
have already paid at least this amount  and have taken reasonable care of the vehicle you 
will not have to pay any more.
The agreement also said that, when it was time to return the car (whether at the end of the 
hire purchase period or otherwise), Mr B had to return it in line with the Vehicle Return 
Standards. Over some two pages, the agreement set out in some detail what those 
standards were, with examples of damage that would be acceptable as wear and tear and 
damage that would not be acceptable. One section covered wheels and tyres, and included 
in the Not Acceptable category:
any gouge to tyres;
cracked wheel rims;
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm; and 
tyres with excessive wear not matching the cars age.
Failure to return the car in line with the standards would result in a charge representing the 
cost of repairs or reduction in value of the car.  
Mr B chose to end the agreement and return the car in February 2021. He calculated that he 
had paid just under half of the total payable under the agreement and would need therefore 
to pay an additional £749.41 to meet his obligations. 
After Mr B had returned the car, MBFS arranged an inspection of it. It concluded that three of 
the wheels required refurbishment and that two tyres needed replacing. The wheels had 
excessive scuff marks, one tyre was gouged and another tyre had a bulge. MBFS sent Mr B 
an invoice for over £800. 
Mr B disputed the invoice. He said that the cars condition was in line with what was to be 
expected in a car of his cars age and mileage. MBFS said the damage was not acceptable 
under its own standards and under the industry standards used by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She agreed however that the inspection report showed the damage described 
and that it was outside the acceptable standards in the agreement. Mr B did not agree. He 
said that the requirement was for the car to be returned in reasonable condition and that, 
under the criteria used by organisations such as cap hpi Limited, it had been. He asked that 
an ombudsman review the case.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is clear evidence of the damage described by MBFS, even in photographs provided 
by Mr B. I am satisfied that it is outside the acceptable standards described in the hire 
purchase agreement and used by the BVLRA. I do not understand Mr B to dispute that at 
least three of the cars wheels were scuffed or that one tyre had a gouge in the sidewall and 
that another was bulging. For the avoidance of doubt, however, my finding is that they were. 
Mr B says however that the standards applied by MBFS and the BVLRA are inconsistent 
with the terms of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, the effect of section 110(4) of which is that, 
if a debtor has not taken reasonable care of goods, the sum payable to end the agreement 
(in this case, half the total payable) can be increased to take account of that. He says that 
the provisions of the Act take precedence.
Mr B is right that the Consumer Credit Act takes priority over the hire purchase agreement. It 
expressly says that a business cannot exclude its provisions by contract. That is however 
only relevant if MBFS has sought to contract out of the protections in the Act or if the 
contract is inconsistent with those protections. MBFSs own return standards and those used 
by the BVLRA are similar, but not identical. But I do not believe that either can be said to be 
at odds with the Act. The agreement did not, for example, require Mr B to return the car in an 
improved condition, and it made an allowance for wear and tear. And it set out clearly with 
examples what level of damage was acceptable and what was not. The standards required 
were, in my view, consistent with an obligation to return the car in a reasonable condition. 
Because he did not do so, MBFS did not treat Mr B unfairly in making the charges it did  
which were reasonable for the damage identified.            
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman