DRN-3407745
The complaint
Miss B complains about the actions of Santander Consumer (UK) Plc in relation to provision 
of credit for a car she was attempting to buy.
What happened
In 2020, Miss B attempted to buy a car from a dealer J using personal contract purchase 
(PCP) finance. J also acted as a credit broker in the transaction. J placed Miss Bs finance 
application with Santander, who  after initially declining her application  approved it. J 
issued a credit agreement to Miss B, which she duly signed, paying a deposit to secure the 
car. But a couple of days later J told Miss B that Santander had changed its mind over 
providing finance for the purchase.
Over the following weeks Miss B attempted unsuccessfully to enforce what she believed to 
be a binding agreement to fund the purchase. She was upset that J relisted the car for sale 
despite her paying the deposit. Miss B eventually bought the car by other means, but has 
sought compensation for her time and costs. Miss B asserts a number of contractual, legal 
and regulatory breaches and misrepresentations by the parties involved in the sale 
arrangements and what she believes to have been unfair discrimination.
Santander responded through its legal representative. It disputed Miss Bs claims, saying 
that as the prospective lender, it had an absolute right to decide whether to lend. Santander 
said that it didnt consider the underlying purchase a suitable risk due to the cost and power 
of the car and the fact Miss B held a provisional driving licence. It didnt accept Miss Bs 
arguments regarding the marketing and advertising of the vehicle, saying that these did not 
amount to an offer or lead to a concluded contract.
In relation to the finance applications, Santander noted that while Miss B had signed the 
credit agreement, it had not done so. It said in the absence of acceptance on its part, no 
valid contract was formed. It was therefore not bound to perform any of the actions Miss B 
sought as the credit agreement was unexecuted.
Our investigator dealt separately with Miss Bs concerns about the parties. He was satisfied 
Santander was entitled to take the decisions it did in relation to her credit application. This 
included withdrawing from the arrangements, notwithstanding that Miss B had been told her 
proposal had been accepted. The investigator felt Santander hadnt treated Miss B unfairly 
and didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld.
Miss B didnt accept the investigators findings and has asked for this review. She felt the 
investigator had ignored contract law, consumer rights legislation and consumer protection 
from unfair trading regulations, all of which she had cited in her complaint submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some limits to what I can reach findings on. Some of the concerns Miss B has 
raised relate to activity that isnt the provision (or non-provision) of a financial service, and 
fall outside the remit of our organisation. My findings here, then, are limited to the actions of 
Santander in its capacity as a prospective lender, rather than the wider concerns Miss B has 
expressed about the entire transaction, which encompass the car dealing activity. It remains 
open to Miss B to take those concerns to a different dispute resolution service such as a 
court or  if applicable  the Motor Ombudsman.
Having carefully considered all thats been said and provided, Im not upholding those aspect 
of Miss Bs complaint that fall within my power to address. I find that her arguments  insofar 
as they relate to the actions of Santander in carrying on regulated consumer credit activity  
are not sufficiently persuasive. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I have regard for matters such as relevant law, 
relevant regulations and codes, and what I consider to be good industry practice. Miss B has 
given her analysis of how she considers contract law and certain consumer protections 
support her position. Santander has taken a different view, as set out in its final response via 
its legal representative.
It seems to me that of particular relevance to whether Santander was entitled to change its 
mind is the provision within section 57 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974), given 
that the proposed arrangements were in relation to the formation of a regulated credit 
agreement. This section deals directly with the issue at hand  withdrawal from a 
prospective agreement. It says:
57 Withdrawal from prospective agreement
(1) The withdrawal of a party from a prospective regulated agreement shall 
operate to apply this Part to the agreement, any linked transaction and any other 
thing done in anticipation of the making of the agreement as it would apply if the 
agreement were made and then cancelled under section 69.
(2) The giving to a party of a written or oral notice which, however expressed, 
indicates the intention of the other party to withdraw from a prospective regulated 
agreement operates as a withdrawal from it.
(3) Each of the following shall be deemed to be the agent of the creditor or owner 
for the purpose of receiving a notice under subsection (2)
(a) a credit-broker or supplier who is the negotiator in antecedent 
negotiations, and
(b) any person who, in the course of a business carried on by him, acts 
on behalf of the debtor or hirer in any negotiations for the agreement.
(4) Where the agreement, if made, would not be a cancellable agreement, 
subsection (1) shall nevertheless apply as if the contrary were the case.
It is further worth noting the comments in Goode, Consumer Credit Law and Practice, which 
has long been recognised by the courts as providing useful commentary on the Consumer 
Credit Act. These say:
The right of an intending debtor or hirer to withdraw from a prospective regulated 
agreement is not conferred by the CCA 1974  but derives from the common law rule 
that an unaccepted offer imposes no obligations on either party. What the CCA 1974, 
s 57 does is to legislate for the modes of withdrawal by introducing modes of withdrawal somewhat wider than at common law.
The right of withdrawal exists, therefore, from the moment the parties have reached 
the beginnings of an understanding which might lead to a regulated agreement and 
does not end until a binding agreement has been concluded. Thus, whether the 
agreement is cancellable or not, in the period between the debtor or hirer signing the 
unexecuted agreement and its signature, and hence execution, by the creditor or 
owner, there is no concluded agreement and the debtor or hirer may withdraw from 
it.
This is in some key respects similar to the argument put forward by Santander; that there is 
no concluded contract until such time as both parties have agreed to be bound by the terms 
of a prospective agreement and it has become an executed agreement by virtue of both 
Miss B and Santander having signed it. It is not in dispute that only Miss B signed the 
agreement.
While I understand the point Miss B seeks to make about whether this is necessary to form a 
binding contract, the wording and commentary on section 57 appear to me likely to be fatal 
to the success of such an argument. Im conscious that the commentary references the 
withdrawal of the debtor or hirer rather than the creditor or owner. But the general wording 
clearly suggests that the obligations on either party only arise upon an executed agreement.
The CCA 1974 goes on to set out what should happen when a party withdraws. Generally, 
cancellation of a regulated agreement will also trigger the cancellation of any linked 
transaction. This would presumably include the underlying agreement between Miss B and J 
for the sale of the car  otherwise Miss B would be left in the position of being contractually 
bound to buy the car from J but without the financial means to do so.
Had Miss B not proceeded with the purchase its possible one of the effects of the CCA 1974 
might have been to make Santander liable to refund the deposit she paid to J. But as Miss B 
did ultimately go ahead with buying the car and obtained value for her deposit, I dont need 
to consider this aspect further in this decision.
I now turn to the matter of whether Santander acted unfairly in the way it considered 
Miss Bs credit application. While I dont doubt she was upset to be told Santander wasnt 
willing to lend after her initial proposal was accepted, Ive no reason to conclude that this 
decision was taken for reasons other than those the lender has already explained.
Santander said the entire proposal, taking into account Miss Bs status as a provisional 
licence holder, the cars power and its cost, presented it with an overall risk it was unwilling 
to take. Although Ive considered the arguments Miss B has put forward regarding unfair 
discrimination, Ive seen nothing to indicate Santander has treated Miss B any less 
favourably than any other applicant who didnt share her personal characteristics. It follows 
that, like the investigator, I dont consider Santander to have treated Miss B unfairly.
My final decision
I do understand Miss Bs frustration that the car purchase didnt go smoothly or as shed 
originally intended. However, that does not mean Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was at fault 
or becomes liable to compensate her. For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman