DRN-3087488
Complaint
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage at the end of 1993 with The Co-Operative Bank PLC, 
trading at the time as Britannia Building Society. They were sold a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. Mr and Mrs F say they were mis-sold the 
PPI.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Co-op.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs F its unlikely to 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
These events were some 28 years ago now and the mortgage and PPI were also 
redeemed many years ago too. Nevertheless, we still do have access to some of the 
physical records showing that Mr and Mrs F agreed to buy this PPI.
The records show us that this was a fixed rate mortgage product which was incentivised. 
Weve seen a few of these Co-op cases from around the 1990s, where getting the 
discounted fixed rate deal depended on the consumer(s) also opting for certain types of 
Co-op products. Quite often, PPI was such a product and it looks like this is what happened 
here.
Its probably not common knowledge that this practice was allowed under the rules that 
existed at the time. In short, the consumers didnt need to opt for the special fixed rate deal 
and so they wouldnt have needed to buy PPI if it was something they felt they didnt want 
or need. On the other hand, if they did want the special discounted mortgage rate, they had 
to agree to pick PPI (or sometimes another form of insurance).
Given the many cases weve seen like this one, I can use my knowledge and experience to 
say that Mr and Mrs F got a discounted rate by accepting these conditions. And Im afraid 
they were under no obligation to do so because they could just as easy have taken their 
business elsewhere, or indeed opted for a more flexible Co-op product.
Obviously I cant say after such a long time that Mr and Mrs F were told everything they 
ought to have been told. But in my view, these conditions were set out clearly for them on a 
letter of 2 December 1993. The letter was headed up as follows: SPECIAL CONDITIONS 
WHICH SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE OFFER OF ADVANCE 
ATTACHED. It went on to say, clearly in my view, that PPI was a condition of getting this 
particular mortgage.
Mr and Mrs F say the PPI went up in price during the time they had it. However, Ive seen 
nothing that suggests the policy wasnt affordable for them and Im afraid the decision about 
accessing this special fixed rate deal was one for them to make. Theyve also claimed they 
already had sick pay with their respective jobs, but I see this was the minimum state benefit 
known as statutory sick pay (SSP). As the mortgage was secured against their home, I can 
certainly see how additional insurance protection would have been of use as SSP provides 
only very short-term protection. And again, selecting the discounted fixed rate product came 
with a known condition of buying mortgage protection  PPI.
Overall, I think theres plenty of evidence here that Mr and Mrs F probably engaged in the 
discussions about this sale and went through a number of steps to get the policy. The policy 
was part of a wider incentive to take the particular mortgage deal and other options would 
have been available. Co-op didnt do anything wrong.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs F.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
I do not direct The Co-Operative Bank PLC to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman