Complaint
Mr M complains that he wasnt made aware of the ongoing charges that 
Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited applied to his unit linked investment bond.
He is also unhappy that his bond was encashed without his authorisation. 
Background
In May 2008, Mr M invested a lump sum into an Old Mutual (previously Skandia) single 
premium capital and income bond.  The funds remained invested and he drew a monthly 
income from the bond. 
In April 2019, Old Mutual sent Mr M his annual statement. When reviewing the statement, Mr 
M noticed that it detailed a monetary cost of the charges that had been deducted from his 
bond. He complained to Old Mutual because he wasnt aware he was being charged each 
year and he didnt think this was fair. He also raised a complaint with the independent 
financial advisor who sold him the bond. 
At the same time as raising his complaint with Old Mutual, Mr M inquired about surrendering 
the bond. He was sent the relevant information needed to cash in the bond. Before he 
returned the paperwork, Old Mutual surrendered the investment. Mr M complained about this 
as it was done before he properly agreed to the surrender. 
Old Mutual responded to the complaint. It said an annual management charge and fund 
manager charges had been applied to his bond each year since it was taken out and this 
was in line with the terms of the bond. It referred to changes in regulation, meaning from 
2018 onwards it was required to express these charges as a monetary figure  and this is 
why Mr Ms recent statements were the first to show the charges expressed as a monetary 
figure. It said previously it wasnt required to include this level of information and it would 
now be very complex to work out monetary amounts for previous years. 
Old Mutual apologised for the errors in the surrendering of the bond. It agreed to do a 
comparison to work out if Mr M had lost out by surrendering the bond before he had fully 
authorised it. It worked out that he would have received more if the bond was surrendered 
on the date Mr M returned the surrender paperwork. It agreed to pay him the difference as 
well as some compensation to recognise the error it had made. In total it offered Mr M £400. 
Mr M didnt accept the offer. Old Mutual also offered to reinstate the bond, but Mr M declined 
this as well. As he remained unhappy with Old Mutuals response Mr M brought his 
complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Old Mutual had acted fairly in 
how it applied the charges. She explained that it wasnt responsible for the advice to take out 
the bond or the explanation of charges. She also thought that the offer made was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
DRN-1640552Mr M didnt agree and asked for his case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I think its worth explaining investment products have some ongoing fees and 
charges associated with them. Typical charges will include things like fund management 
charges, which are deducted from the value of the investment in order to cover the costs of 
managing, researching and selecting investments for the fund. These charges are very 
common place with the bonds like the one Mr M held with Old Mutual. Responsibility for 
telling Mr M about charges lay with the person who advised him to invest in the bond. I note 
he has made a separate complaint to the advisor who sold him the bond.
Ive looked at the original key features document for the bond. This provides information of 
the charges that are applicable to Mr Ms bond. They include details of the annual 
management and fund management charges that will be deducted. These are the charges 
that Mr M queried when making his complaint. I havent seen anything to suggest these 
charges have been applied unfairly.  Prior to 2018 the charges were detailed in Mr Ms 
annual statements, but they were expressed in terms of a percentage of the fund value. This 
is in line with the regulatory requirements at that time and Old Mutual didnt need to do 
explain the charges further. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about not being aware of exactly how much he was being 
charged until his more recent statements. Old Mutual has explained that this is because of 
changes to requirements placed on businesses by the regulator of the financial services 
industry  the Financial Conduct Authority. It is correct that regulatory changes came in to 
force in 2018, part of which required businesses to give consumers a full breakdown of all 
fees and charges related to an investment on an ongoing basis. This is why Mr M saw a 
change in the format of his annual statements. It is now clearer how much in terms of 
pounds and pence Mr M is paying in charges. But Old Mutual is correct to say that it wasnt 
required to breakdown charges in this way previously. So, I dont think it has done anything 
wrong in this respect. I appreciate that Mr M would like a full monetary breakdown year by 
year but it wasnt required to keep this information and it says isnt easily available. So, I 
dont think it is reasonable for me to require Old Mutual to provide this information. 
Ive looked into the issue regarding how the bond came to be surrendered. Old Mutual has 
accepted that it prematurely surrendered the policy. So as it admitted this mistake, Ive 
concentrated on what it did to correct this. Its looked at putting Mr M in the position as if it 
surrendered the bond a few weeks later - when he sent the completed paperwork to 
authorise this happening. Doing a comparison between the value Mr M actually got 
compared to what he would have got is a fair way to do this. It worked out Mr M would have 
got more if the bond had been surrendered at the later date. Old Mutual has offered to make 
up the difference in value and offered some additional money for the inconvenience this 
caused. Old Mutual did also give Mr M the opportunity to reinstate the policy if he returned 
the surrender money hed received (which he declined). Overall, I agree that the situation 
would have caused Mr M concern and worry while having to chase things up, but the 
position was corrected fairly quickly. Im satisfied that the compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  so I dont think Old Mutual needs to do anything more. 
In summary, I have considered Mr Ms view that Old Mutual has treated him unfairly by 
deducting charges from his bond but I dont think the balance of evidence supports this to be 
case. These types of charges are very common with investments and from what Ive seen, Old Mutual has fairly applied them in line with the terms of the bond. The change in how this 
information is communicated to Mr M was as a result of a change in regulation, so I dont 
think it did anything wrong by not using this format sooner. I know that this will disappoint Mr 
M but I dont think Old Mutual needs to do anything further over and above the offer it has 
already made to him.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle Mr Ms complaint  so I require it to honour that offer, but nothing 
more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman