DRN-4208247
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wont reimburse the 
money theyve lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr and Mrs J fell victim to an email interception scam whilst purchasing a new home in 2022.
On 22 July 2022, contracts were exchanged. On that day, Mr J spoke to the couples 
solicitor and was told that he would shortly receive a copy of the mortgage redemption 
certificate, completion statements and instructions for paying the balance due of £38,864.53, 
via email. A couple of hours later, Mr J received the email he was expecting. The balance 
was paid from Mr and Mrs Js joint account via faster payment to the account details quoted 
in the email on 23 July 2022.
At that time, Mr J didnt know that his email account had been hacked by a fraudster, who 
had intercepted the solicitors email and changed the account details quoted in the balance 
payment instructions to their own before sending it onto him from an email address which 
was very similar to the solicitors.
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt have any suspicions about the email Mr J received because:
The From field displayed the solicitors name.
It followed the solicitors writing style and tone.
They were expecting to receive it after Mr Js telephone conversation with the 
solicitor earlier that day.
They had no idea that this type of fraud was possible. 
They thought the solicitor had exclusive access to the authentic documents attached 
to the email. 
A small payment had been made to a different account previously, but they thought it 
entirely plausible that a solicitor would have a separate account for completion of 
sales/purchases. 
The fraud came to light when the solicitor advised that the balance payment hadnt been 
received. 
Mr and Mrs J raised a fraud claim with HSBC. The bank recovered £13.29 from the receiving 
account, and returned it to them, but it declined to reimburse their remaining loss under the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). HSBC said 
that it gave Mr and Mrs J an effective warning when the payment was instructed, but they 
didnt carry out sufficient due diligence before making the payment.
Mr and Mrs J referred a complaint about HSBC to this Service. They said that: 
They werent rushing to make the payment, but the warning HSBC gave them wasnt 
effective  it didnt give any insight into the relevant fraud risk, it just flagged issues 
that werent applicable to their situation. 
They checked theyd entered the receiving account details correctly after receiving 
HSBCs warning.
They had no reason to doubt the authenticity of the email Mr J received.
They werent aware of how email interception scams work at the time.
What did our investigator say?
In summary, our investigator didnt agree that HSBC had provided Mr and Mrs J with an 
effective warning, and she thought that they had a reasonable basis for belief when they 
made the payment. She recommended that HSBC reimburse Mr and Mrs Js full financial 
loss and pay interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date the payment was made. 
In responding to our investigator, HSBC maintained that it had given Mr and Mrs J an 
effective warning, but they failed to follow its advice. The bank said that if they had done so, 
its warning would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. HSBC acknowledged 
that its warning didnt specifically focus on a single scam risk but said its unrealistic to 
expect it to, and that alone doesnt make the warning less impactful. The bank pointed out 
that the warning told Mr and Mrs J what to do if theyd been contacted by email and advised 
them to check any change in payment details. 
This case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr and Mrs J 
have fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has argued that two 
of the exceptions apply in this case. It says that Mr and Mrs J ignored an effective warning it 
gave during the payment journey, and they made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for belief that the payee was the person they were expecting to pay, the payment was for 
genuine goods or services and/or the person or business they were transacting with was 
legitimate. 
Effective warning
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have an impact 
on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer.
HSBC says it gave Mr and Mrs J the following warning during the payment journey:
Caution  this could be a scam
WARNING  if someone has told you to mislead us about the reason for your payment 
and/or choose the wrong payment type, stop, this is a scam.
Fraudsters may advertise on social media, online marketplaces and on websites that seem 
legitimate but have been set up to carry out fraud. They can also pretend to be a genuine 
business, access your emails or invoices and ask you to make payment to a different 
account.
What you need to do before making the payment:
stop and think  does this seem right? Is the offer for a limited time or too good to 
be true?
if you are contacted by email check the content and address, does it have any 
grammatical errors or unusual changes in font or format? Was it sent from the 
company you expected? Is the senders email address different, even by just one 
character?
check any changes like payment details by contacting the person or company using 
a phone number youve checked is genuine
beware of false websites and reviews and thoroughly research the seller online 
using trusted sources before sending any money
dont make the payment if youre asked to pay by bank transfer rather than using a 
more secure way e.g. credit or debit card, which gives you more protection against 
fraud
if you are paying for a high value item like a car, make sure you physically see it 
before making a payment.
Visit our Fraud Centre for more information on what you should check before making 
payments.
IMPORTANT
By choosing to continue, you agree youve read this warning youre happy to proceed 
and that we may not be able to recover your payment if its sent to a fraudsters 
account. If you have any doubts or concerns at all, please stop immediately.
HSBC says that, within its fraud centre, there is information on different types of scams and how to spot the signs and stay safe. This includes a section on email interception scams. 
Ive considered the warning and, overall, Im not satisfied it can reasonably be said that the 
requirements of the effective warning exception were met. The warning isnt specific to the 
APP scam risk here  it covers off several different scam risks  and I dont think its 
impactful enough to affect a customers decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood 
of an email interception scam succeeding is reduced.
It's clear to me that HSBCs warning attempts to prevent email interception scams. It says 
that fraudsters can access your emails and invoices and ask you to make a payment to a 
different account. It also advises on what to do before making a payment if you are 
contacted by email, and to check any changes in payment details by telephone. But I dont 
think the warning goes far enough to make the risk really obvious to customers. It doesnt 
bring to life what this type of scam looks like, nor does it talk about the prevalence of this 
type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be. For example  it doesnt 
explain that fraudsters emails appear to come from a familiar person or business, that 
fraudulent emails are usually received when a payment request is expected or that 
fraudsters emails can look the same or very similar to the persons theyre impersonating.
Im not persuaded that a reasonable person would fully understand the risk in an email 
interception scam from the warning HSBC gave.
The circumstances of this scam made the warning even less effective. Mr J had been 
successfully communicating with the solicitor for some time before the fraudulent email was 
received. Mr and Mrs J were at the last stage in the process of purchasing a new home and 
everything had gone smoothly so far  including when they made a prior small payment to 
the solicitor. Mr J received an email he was expecting to receive on the same day as he 
spoke to the solicitor on the telephone. The email displayed the solicitors name in the From 
field, it followed the solicitors writing style and tone, and it attached authentic documents 
relating to the house purchase. To Mr J, everything looked the same as it had always done, 
and nothing stood out as suspicious. From what Ive seen, I dont think Mr J appreciated the 
risk that the email may have come from a fraudster. This is supported by his testimony. If 
HSBC had really brought to life what a scam of this nature looks like, then I think that 
wouldve been important information in the context of this scam that wouldve affected Mr 
and Mrs Js decision making and led them to take additional steps to protect their assets. 
Reasonable basis for belief
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs J had a reasonable basis for belief in this 
case. Theyve said that nothing about the email stood out to them as suspicious, and I can 
understand why. I dont think its unreasonable in the circumstances, particularly as HSBC 
didnt give them an effective warning which adequately explained the fraud risk. 
The email: 
Was received a couple of hours after Mr Js telephone conversation with the solicitor 
in which he was told to expect it.
Displayed the solicitors name in the From field and was sent from an email address 
which was only one character different from the solicitors genuine email address  
making the fraud difficult to detect.
Followed the solicitors writing style and tone (some of the content was copied 
directly from the solicitors genuine email).Attached the mortgage redemption certificate and completion statements, and I think 
this is very persuasive. Mr and Mrs J have explained that they thought the solicitor 
had exclusive access to those authentic documents, and I think this is a reasonable 
assumption. 
I appreciate that HSBCs warning explains that fraudsters can access your emails and 
invoices and ask you to make a payment to a different account and advises on what to do 
before making a payment if you are contacted by email, and to check any changes in 
payment details by telephone. And that Mr and Mrs J didnt follow HSBCs advice. Theyve 
explained that they werent rushing to make the payment, but they didnt think the warning 
flagged issues that were relevant to their situation. They did check theyd entered the 
receiving account details correctly but otherwise; they didnt understand the fraud risk.
As Ive set out above, I dont think the warning goes far enough to make the risk really 
obvious to customers. It doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like, nor does it talk 
about the prevalence of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be. I 
dont think its unreasonable that Mr and Mrs J didnt follow HSBCs advice and/or take 
additional steps to protect their assets in absence of a specific and impactful fraud warning 
that gave them a good understanding of the risk, and in light of the persuasiveness of the 
fraudsters email in the surrounding context.
I also appreciate that Mr and Mrs J were instructed to pay a different account to the one 
theyd paid previously. But I think their assumption about the reason for this was reasonable.
Overall, the fraud was sophisticated, and I can understand why it went undetected by Mr and 
Mrs J.
Conclusions 
Considering everything, Im persuaded that HSBC shouldve reimbursed all the money Mr 
and Mrs J lost to this scam under the CRM Code. Im not satisfied that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, I think that HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. Its 
common ground that Mr and Mrs J authorised the payment under the Payment Services 
Regulations, and HSBC had an obligation to follow their payment instruction. But thats not 
the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider that HSBC should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
It doesnt appear that the payment Mr and Mrs J made triggered HSBCs fraud detection 
systems, and I think it ought to have. The payment was high value, it was for significantly more than any other recent payments out of Mr and Mrs Js account, and it went to a new 
payee. I think it stands out as unusual and out of character, and its reasonable to expect 
HSBC to have asked Mr and Mrs J some questions about it before it was processed.
Even if the possibility of financial harm from fraud was identified, I can see that HSBC didnt 
contact Mr and Mrs J to ask them further questions about the payment or advise them of the 
scam risk, as I think it ought to have. If it had done so, I think its likely that the bank wouldve 
recognised the risk of email interception, as it did in a telephone conversation between the 
parties after the payment had been made during which the discrepancy between the 
solicitors and fraudsters email addresses was uncovered, and the scam wouldve 
unravelled without the payment being made.
The relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented Mr and Mrs Js loss, so 
the bank should pay interest from the date of loss rather than the date it decided not to 
refund them under the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to: 
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Js full financial loss (deducting the £13.29 recovered from 
the receiving account) within 28 days of receiving notification of their acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
Pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum from the date the payment was made to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman