DRN-3823098
The complaint
Mr A complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) service and repair 
process, following a claim under his mobile phone insurance. 
What happened
Mr As phone became faulty, so he made a claim under his policy with AIG. AIG replaced his 
phone, but Mr A said that the replacement phone was also faulty. Mr A asked AIG to replace 
the replacement phone, but it was unable to replace the phone, as the phone was under 
warranty with another insurer. AIG advised Mr A to go to the previous insurer for further 
assistance.
Mr A decided to take his phone to the phone manufacturer. He said that the phone 
manufacturer told him that the phone wasnt under warranty. So, he complained to AIG. AIG 
advised Mr A to find a repair agent and if there was a fault with the phone, it would replace it. 
It also said that it would reimburse the cost of this (£50) if this was the case. 
Mr A did not want this resolution and wanted AIG to take back the phone and replace it. So, 
he raised a complaint with our service, after having been given his referral rights. 
One of our investigators considered his complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that AIG had done enough to put things right. Her view was that AIG had on a few 
occasions given Mr A contact details of the previous insurer, as the phone was still under 
warranty with them. These details Mr A refused to accept. Also, AIG had accepted a claim 
for accidental damage to Mr As phone and replaced the phone. It also paid Mr A 
compensation of £60 for the inconvenience caused. All of these actions our investigator 
thought were fair. So, she was unable to recommend that AIG do anything further to resolve 
the complaint. 
AIG accepted the view, Mr A did not. He said that he rejected our investigators view as he 
had lost a lot of money and jobs due to having a faulty phone, that wasnt even a UK 
specification phone. He felt our investigator was biased and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr A, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I note that Mr A has made a number of detailed comments. I hope the fact that I dont 
respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute 
resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the 
minimum of formality and impartially. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
I have reviewed the evidence from Mr A (mainly his comments) and the evidence from AIG 
and in particular, the call records. Mr A reported the damage to his phone, which was 
replaced. Mr A said that the replacement phone was faulty and contacted AIG. AIG advised 
him that the phone that he had was still covered under the warranty from the previous 
insurers. And attempted to direct Mr A to contact them, so that Mr A wouldnt have to pay 
any excess charges. 
Based on the information Ive read, Mr A refused to take the previous insurers details. Mr A 
has provided me with no explanation of why he refused to contact the previous insurers. So, 
I think that AIG were fair to direct Mr A to the previous insurers. I say this as in the policy 
terms and conditions. It states fairly early on that AIGs obligations under the policy, will start 
after the expiration of the warranty. 
Despite AIG having advised Mr A to go to the previous insurer, it appears that he chose to 
take the phone to the phone manufacturer. Mr A said that the phone manufacturer told him 
that the phone wasnt a UK specification phone nor was it under warranty. So, he 
complained to AIG.  
I note in the call record that the agent offered Mr A, an inspection of the phone and if the 
phone was found to be faulty, then it would replace it. I note that there was a charge of £50 
for this service. I understand that Mr A was frustrated by this as he wanted the phone 
replaced. But I dont think AIG were acting unreasonably, given that it would need to be 
satisfied that the phone was actually faulty, before it replaced the phone. 
Further, Mr A who was told on a few occasions, that the phone was under warranty with the 
previous insurer, seemingly chose not to contact the previous insurer, as he had been 
advised to do. 
Mr A said that he was told by AIG to go to the phone manufacturer. But having reviewed the 
call recordings and the comments made by AIG (that it did not advise Mr A to go to the 
phone manufacturer) I am satisfied that there this wasnt the case. And that he was advised 
to contact the previous insurers. 
AIG confirmed that it further investigated the claim and found that under the accidental 
damage term of the policy, it was able to replace Mr As phone, which was done in October 
2022. I can see that it also offered compensation of £60, for the trouble and upset caused, 
given the time it had taken to provide a resolution.  
I understand that Mr A is seeking a far greater amount of compensation, as he said that this 
event caused him loss of earnings and work. But Mr As policy doesnt give him cover for 
loss of earnings  that is, its not something hes entitled to claim for under his contract of 
insurance. Further, Mr A has provided me with no evidence of any income that he has lost or 
employment that he has missed out on, as a result of the faulty phone. Moreover, our 
service doesnt directly compensate consumers for lost hours of work. If we did, wed be 
compensating those with higher-paying jobs far more than others, which wouldnt seem fair.
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr A will be, Im 
satisfied that AIG were reasonable to offer the £60 compensation for the poor service. And were fair in its decision to ultimately replace the phone, which Mr A wanted it to do. And Im 
unable to compensate for any loss of earnings or work. Consequently, I cant fairly ask AIG 
to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman