DRN-3069896
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has unfairly increased his minimum 
monthly payment as a result of being in persistent debt on one of his credit cards.
  
What happened
Mr P has two credit card accounts with Capital One. On card ending 5318, Mr P has been 
very near the credit limit of £2,000 for some time. In April 2021, Capital One wrote to Mr P 
as he had paid more in interest, fees and charges over the past 18 months than he had 
towards the amount borrowed and so he was considered to be in persistent debt.
As a result, it notified Mr P that in 30 days time it was changing the minimum payment 
from 1% to 3% of the balance, plus interest and fees. This meant Mr Ps minimum 
payment would increase from £64.26 to £104.15. It wrote again to Mr P on 2 June 2021 to 
explain the new minimum payment was now active. No changes were made on the other 
card account but an increase in repayments was suggested.
Mr P complained pointing out that Capital One wasnt complying the Financial Conduct 
Authorities (FCA) rules on persistent debt as it couldnt take such action unless he had 
been in persistent debt for 36 months. And although a number to contact was provided if 
it wasnt affordable, he was only offered a payment plan.
Capital One didnt think it had done anything wrong but did pay Mr P £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Not happy with that Mr P asked us to look into the matter, explaining that two of 
his existing loans will be paid off soon which means he will be able to pay more into to the 
debt but at the moment, the increase is unaffordable.
Overall, our investigator didnt think it was wrong for Capital One to increase the 
minimum payment but did think it should have done more when Mr P contacted it to 
explain the increase was unaffordable. But she thought the £100 compensation payment 
was sufficient redress for this.
Mr P has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He remains of the 
view Capital One have acted sooner than it should have done, and it isnt treating 
him with forbearance.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 August 2021 explaining why I was minded to 
uphold this complaint. I set my findings out below:
The FCA introduced rules for lenders of credit cards to notify its customers if they 
were in persistent debt, what that meant and what steps could be taken. These can 
be found in CONC 6.7.27R onwards in the regulators handbook of rules and 
guidance.
Capital One wrote to Mr P in April 2021. At the point it had been assessed that he had 
paid more in interest, fees and charges in the proceeding 18 months than he towards 
the borrowing. So it was right that Capital One wrote to Mr P about that. However, Im 
not persuaded it was fair or reasonable, or in keeping with the rules for it to decide 
that Mr Ps minimum payment was increasing from 1% to 3% of the balance, plus 
interest and fees.
At the 18 month point the rules at CONC 6.7.27R (4) say Capital One must:
(a) notify the customer that, in the preceding 18 months, the amount the customer
paid comprised a lower amount in principal than in interest, fees and charges;
(b) explain that increasing this level of payment would reduce the cost of 
borrowing and the amount of time it would take to repay the balance;
(c) encourage the customer to contact the firm to discuss the customers 
financial circumstances and whether the customer can increase the 
amount of payments without an adverse effect on the customers financial 
situation;
(d) warn the customer of the potential implications if the customers 
payments comprise a lower amount in principle than in interest, fees and 
charges in two consecutive 18-month periods; and
(e) provide contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies and encourage the
customer to contact one of them.
It seems to me that the 18-month notification is an education piece, designed to 
encourage customers who are in persistent debt to pay more if they can. And if the 
customer is still in persistent debt in 36 months, then a lender can take firmer action 
such as suspending the account and other such steps. But there is nothing in the rules 
at the 18 month point of this process that entitles Capital One to increase the minimum 
payment in the way that it has. Indeed, at (c) its quite clear that it is supposed to 
encourage discussions about an increase and whether an increase can take place 
without an adverse effect on the customers financial situation [my emphasis].
Capital One went far further and made the decision to increase Mr Ps minimum 
payment without any discussion with him to understand his financial circumstances. Im 
given to understand that he isnt able to afford an increase at the current time because 
of existing borrowing that he is repaying. Far from assisting Mr P with ways in which he 
can improve his persistent debt, Capital Ones actions could have an adverse impact if 
they havent already done so; it could put his account into arrears when the previous 
minimum payments were being met.
Whilst I understand an increase in payments is a positive step in the long run, particularly 
as that will mean Mr Ps borrowing is paid off sooner and will cost him less, it isnt 
supposed to cause more financial hardship. It seems to me that once Mr P notified Capital 
One that he couldnt afford the increase, and in keeping with (c) above, Capital One 
should have reduced the minimum payment back to what it was and had further 
discussions about what steps Mr P could take to help ensure he comes out of persistent 
debt as soon as he is able. Im not currently minded to find that Capital One has treated 
Mr P fairly.
I have considered that Capital One appears to have made this a contractual change to the 
credit agreement. But it doesnt appear from the terms of the agreement that it can change 
the minimum payment in the way that it has. The only part of the agreement that speaks to 
changes is the Variation section. And this only refers to changes in credit limit or the 
applicable interest rate. There is nothing within this section about changing the minimum 
payment amount. And I cant see anything else within the agreement that allows this 
change.
But even if Im wrong about that, and Capital one can make such a contractual change, Im not persuaded it is fair and reasonable for it to do so. This doesnt appear to be a 
change to all cardholders minimum payments (it doesnt apply to Mr Ps other card 
account with it, for example) such that all customers are subject to the same increase. 
It appears solely to relate to Mr Ps persistent debt. And I already found above that I 
dont find the increase in keeping with the rules or that it has been done fairly. So even 
if this is a contractual change, I dont find it fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting this right
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and require Capital One to:
rewind the minimum payment increase as if it never happened; and
if Mr P has made a payment/s of the higher amount, this can either remain as a 
credit to the account to reduce the balance or Capital One should refund it to Mr 
P  Mr P will need to let me know his preference in response to this provisional 
decision; and
if Mr Ps credit history has been adversely affected as a result of the increase, 
Capital One should remove that data.
If Mr P chooses to have the overpayment refunded to him, then I will also require 
Capital One to pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
I consider Mr P has also been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of what 
has happened. He has had the worry of not being able to afford his credit card 
repayments despite meeting the previous minimum payments. And he has been put to 
the inconvenience of having this matter put right. I find £200 compensation to be a fair 
reflection the impact of this has had, inclusive of the £100 already paid. I therefore also 
require Capital One to pay Mr P an additional £100.
Mr P replied. He explained that since the matter had been referred for a decision, he had, 
as a result of the minimum payment increase, been forced to enter into an IVA agreement 
for this and other debts. He says this will now have an effect on his credit file for six years. 
He believes Capital One should repay his contractual payments under the IVA of £200 a 
month. He is now worried about his position at work and believes Capital One should clear 
all of IVA debts as he wouldnt have been in an IVA but for its actions.  Mr P has provided 
information to show he entered into discussions about the IVA on 18 August 2021. 
Capital One also responded. It said although its intention was to meet the spirit as well as 
the letter of the regulation, it does have provisions in place whereby a customer can 
contact it about proposed minimum payment increase at that point in a persistent debt 
cycle and the minimum payment can be reduced back to 1%. It acknowledges that didnt 
happen with Mr P when it should have done. It therefore agrees with my proposed 
redress. It also explained there were no increases proposed on Mr Ps other account as 
that was already at a 3% minimum payment level.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has agreed that things didnt go right here, and it could have reverted Mr Ps 
minimum payment to 1% when he got in touch to say he couldnt afford the minimum 
payment increase. So the only thing left for me to consider is Mr Ps points in response to my 
provisional findings.  Mr P has entered into an IVA, and as he knows this will have an adverse impact on his credit 
file. But Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for Capital One to pay his IVA debts 
as a result of what happened. 
Mr P was told when the matter was being referred for a decision that the ombudsman might 
reach a different outcome to the investigator. And presumably he asked for a decision 
because of the very reason he disagreed with the investigators findings and wanted a 
different outcome. So Im surprised he took that action before we determined his complaint. 
And if his situation was such that he couldnt wait because his finances wouldnt allow him 
to, then it seems that an IVA was likely, in any event. 
But even if Im wrong about that, Capital One had previously offered for Mr P to enter a 
payment arrangement. He didnt want to do that because of the impact on his credit file. Yet 
he has now entered a process which will have far greater impact. Capital One was willing to 
discuss repayment arrangements and so Im satisfied there were other options open to him 
in relation to this and an IVA wasnt his only choice. As such, Im not persuaded Mr P had to 
enter an IVA  rather, Im satisfied he chose to do so, despite knowing he could have 
negotiated lower repayments on this credit card account. 
I therefore find no basis on which to find that Capital Ones actions alone have caused Mr P 
to enter into an IVA. It follows that I dont fairly find any basis on which to ask it to repay 
some or all of the debts within the IVA. For the sake of completeness only, even had I found 
differently, I still wouldnt have found it fair or reasonable for it to repay his debts  the 
borrowing was his, presumably on items or services he has had the benefit of; so whether or 
not he was in an IVA, the debt was/is his.   
For those reasons, I remain of the view the redress I proposed in my provisional decision is 
a fair resolution to this complaint. 
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and require Capital One to:
rewind the minimum payment increase as if it never happened; and
if Mr P has made a payment/s of the higher amount, this can either remain as a 
credit to the account to reduce the balance or Capital One should refund it to Mr 
P  Mr P will need to let me know his preference in response to this decision; 
and
if Mr Ps credit history has been adversely affected as a result of the increase, 
Capital One should remove that data.
If Mr P chooses to have the overpayment refunded to him, then I will also require 
Capital One to pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
I consider Mr P has also been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of what has 
happened. He has had the worry of not being able to afford his credit card repayments 
despite meeting the previous minimum payments. And he has been put to the 
inconvenience of having this matter put right. I find £200 compensation to be a fair 
reflection the impact of this has had, inclusive of the £100 already paid. I therefore also 
require Capital One to pay Mr P an additional £100.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Capital One (Europe) plc to compensate Mr P as set out above. As noted, Mr P will need to let us know whether he 
wants the overpayments to remain on the account or to be refunded to him, should he 
accept this decision.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman