DRN-2331361
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly turned 
down a claim on their commercial property insurance. Miss B, director of B, has complained 
on Bs behalf.  
For ease of reading, reference to UKI will include its agents. 
What happened
Miss B reported damage to Bs roof following a leak. The water had leaked through the roof 
causing damage to the ceiling and the interior of the room. A builder visited to provide a 
quote for repairs. The builder identified that water had continually been dripping on Bs roof 
from the overflow of a neighbours toilet.
 
UKI arranged for a loss adjuster to look into what had happened. The loss adjuster thought 
the water had leaked through the roof as a result of wear and tear and a lack of 
maintenance. UKI said as the damage had been caused by wear and tear and a lack of 
maintenance then the claim wasnt covered. UKI also thought the rooms where the leak had 
occurred were unoccupied and that regular inspections of those rooms would have likely 
identified the problem sooner. 
Miss B disagreed with the loss adjuster and said the rooms were occupied until the leak. UKI 
then appointed a structural engineer to inspect the property. The structural engineer said the 
water ingress had caused the rooms to be severely affected by damp. He thought this was 
due to wear and tear and a lack of maintenance. As a result, UKI turned down Bs claim. UKI 
said the policy covers one off events, that cause damage, and not damage caused as a 
result of water leaking over a long period of time.
 
Miss B didnt think this was fair and brought the complaint to our service. She said there 
were discrepancies in the report as one said the roof wasnt damaged and the other said the 
roof had failed. She said the roof was generally in a good state of repair, apart from the area 
where water had continually dripped on it from the neighbouring property. So, she thought 
the damage had happened as a result of the water dripping on to the roof, rather than 
because of the condition of the roof. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought it was reasonable for UKI to rely on the expert reports and turn down the claim due 
to the property not being in a good state of repair.
Miss B didnt agree. She provided evidence to show the roof had been maintained two years 
earlier and a video of the water dripping from the neighbouring property. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bs policy covers them for a number of contingencies, including escape of water and 
accidental damage. UKI said an insured event hadnt occurred as the water had been 
leaking on to the roof for some time. It also said that separately the policy excludes damage 
caused by wear and tear and its also a condition precedent that the property is in a good 
state of repair. Its role my to consider if its fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on these 
reasons to turn down Bs claim. 
UKI has relied on the reports of two experts to turn down the claim. The loss adjuster said 
part of the roof had failed. He said the area below the leak had developed severe moss 
growth and that many other plants were growing in the moss beds. He thought the overflow 
had been dripping on to the roof for up to ten years and there hadnt been any maintenance 
that would have identified the issue. He said the claim should be turned down because the 
damage to the internal part of the building was as a result of wear and tear and a lack of 
maintenance. 
Miss B provided an invoice showing roof maintenance that had taken place two years before 
the leak was identified. She also said the rest of the roof was in a good state of repair, 
showing that the only reason the affected part wasnt, was because of the leaking water. 
Given Miss B has a report showing there was some maintenance to the roof, I dont think its 
right for the loss adjuster to say there hadnt been any maintenance. But having seen photos 
of the roof there does seem to be a build-up of moss and plants that indicates the overflow 
was leaking for some time. 
Due to the disagreement over the loss adjusters report Im pleased to see that UKI 
appointed a structural engineer to inspect the property. This engineer said there was no 
evidence of damage to the roof covering and no significant problem of water ingress 
associated with a leak. The engineer said there was no evidence to support that the roof had 
failed as a result of the leak from the overflow. 
He thought the internal rooms had been damaged due to a lack of regular maintenance of 
the tile surface and drainage. He said there was widespread moss on the roof, but 
particularly under the area where the overflow had leaked. He said moss acts as a sponge 
and when wet will allow water to penetrate the roof. He said if the roof had been free of moss 
then the water would most likely have run off the roof.
The engineer also said that gutters on the property were full which would have impacted the 
water running off the roof. And that guano from nesting birds would have acted as a 
fertiliser for plant growth in the guttering and on the roof. The engineer said the amount of 
moss that had built-up would suggest the water had been overflowing for some time. 
The reports seem to indicate that the escape of water did lead to the leak. I say that because 
the reports indicate that the build-up of moss was worse underneath the leak. However, the 
reports also persuade me its most likely that the reason the water caused the damage it did 
was because of a lack of maintenance. 
The terms of the policy say that its a condition precedent to liability that the premises must 
be in a good state of repair. This means that if the property isnt in a good state of repair UKI 
can turn down the claim. Although Id look to see that the breach of the condition made the 
damage that occurred more likely. 
Im persuaded by the findings of the structural engineer because the report is very detailed 
and provides an expert opinion on how the damage occurred. Given this, and that UKI has 
two reports which both say the damage was caused by wear and tear and a lack of maintenance, I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to have based its decision on these. I 
dont think the reports are inconsistent, as while the engineer said the roof wasnt damaged 
in itself, he confirmed that the water ingress was through the roof. 
While I accept that there was maintenance to the roof a couple of years earlier, this doesnt 
seem to have been sufficient due to the build-up of moss and plants that later occurred. And 
given that this included blocked guttering, I dont think the build-up was all due to the over 
flow leaking. It seems that if the roof had been in a better state of repair, then there wouldnt 
have been water ingress into the property. So, in this particular case I do think the roof not 
being in a good state of repair made the claim more likely. As such, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for UKI to rely on the condition that the property must be in a good state of repair 
to turn down the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman