DRN-3752452
The complaint
Mr F, who was a sole trader, is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK
PLC surrounding their failure to set up a direct debit.
What happened
Mr F took out a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with Barclays to assist with his businesss
finances during the Covid-19 pandemic. Tragically, Mr Fs wife later became seriously ill, and
Mr F made the decision to cease trading and become a full-time carer for his wife.
Mr F visited a Barclays branch and explained what had happened. Barclays staff were
sympathetic and arranged for the closure of Mr Fs business current account and, at Mr Fs
request, set up a new direct debit from Mr Fs personal current account to repay the BBL.
However, this new direct debit wasnt set up correctly, and so the next instalment wasnt
taken, meaning that the BBL fell into arrears.
Mr F received a letter from Barclays about the BBL being in arrears and he telephoned the
number on the letter to resolve the issue. However, while a direct debit from his personal
current account was eventually set up, Mr F found the conversation distressing, especially
as he felt that Barclays agent had initially suggested that Mr F had taken the BBL with the
prior intention to stop working and not repay the BBL. So, Mr F raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Fs complaint. They acknowledged that the direct debit from his
personal account hadnt been set up correctly by themselves, and they apologised to Mr F
for this and ensured that Mr F didnt incur any fees or adverse credit file reporting for what
had taken place. Barclays also made a payment of £100 to Mr F as compensation for any
upset or inconvenience he may have experienced.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they sympathised with Mr F, they
didnt feel that the Barclays agent with whom Mr F had spoken on the telephone had been
accusatory in the manner which F had felt, and they thought that the response that Barclays
had issued to Mr Fs complaint, including the £100 compensation, already represented a fair
and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 October 2022 as follows:
Ive listened to the telephone call between Mr F and Barclays which Mr F found to
be upsetting. And having listened to that call I can appreciate why our investigator felt 
that the Barclays agent who handled the call had acted in a professionally acceptable 
way.
But the fact remains that this call should never have needed to have taken place. 
And this is because when Mr F made the decision to close his business, he made a 
visit to a Barclays branch and ensured that appropriate alternative arrangements to 
repay the BBL from his personal current account were put in place.
But Barclays didnt set up this new direct debit arrangement correctly, which meant 
that it was Barclays fault that the next scheduled loan replacement wasnt taken, and
consequently also that Mr F received the letter which led to his telephone call with 
Barclays agent.
And regardless of how a third party such as myself may consider how Barclays 
agent handled that telephone call, I can absolutely understand how that call would 
have been upsetting for Mr F, given the wider context here.
I also feel that as well as ensuring that Mr Fs replacement direct debit was set up 
correctly, Barclays also missed the opportunity to make appropriate notes on Mr Fs 
profile to alert other staff members as to the difficult circumstances that Mr F was 
presently dealing with.
Ultimately, I feel that Mr F did everything required of him when visiting Barclays 
branch in the first instance, and I feel that it was Barclays errors that led to Mr F 
having to deal with a missed payment issue and engage in a telephone conversation 
he found to be upsetting at a time when his familys personal circumstances rendered 
him as being particularly vulnerable, and when the impact upon him of these events 
was greater than otherwise might be the case. And when considering whats 
happened here in this light, I dont feel the £100 thats already been paid to Mr F by 
Barclays does represent fair compensation.
All of which means that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint and instructing 
Barclays to make a further payment of £400 to Mr F, bringing the total amount of 
compensation payable up to £500, which I feel more fairly reflects the significant 
personal impact that the events under consideration here have had on Mr F.
Both Mr F and Barclays have subsequently confirmed that they accept my provisional 
decision. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in  
Mr Fs favour on the basis explained above. And I can confirm that my final decision is that I 
do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a further compensation payment of £400 to Mr F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman