DRN-2130155
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited wouldnt repair a fault to his car 
under his breakdown warranty.
What happened
Mr J has a breakdown warranty on his car. This was sold to him by a third-party company, 
but its underwritten by Assurant. Mr J took his car into a local garage after the engine 
management light had come on, and hed experienced a loss of power. The fault was 
diagnosed as a cracked inlet manifold and Mr J made a claim under his warranty.
Assurant said the inlet manifold had failed due to wear and tear, so they wouldnt cover the 
costs of the repair. Mr J didnt accept this, and Assurant sent out an independent engineer to 
inspect the car. But the engineer couldnt comment on the cause of failure as the engine 
would need further stripping for an inspection to happen. Because of this, Assurant didnt 
change their decision to decline the claim.
Mr J has complained that Assurant have declined his claim. He said he took out the warranty 
in good faith that anything listed under parts included would be replaced as they failed. He 
doesnt think the inlet manifold is something that needs to be regularly serviced or replaced, 
so he thinks its a mechanical failure, not a wear and tear issue. And hes brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that both the garage doing the repairs, and Assurants motor repair 
team, said that the failure of the inlet manifold was most likely caused over time, and was 
due to the age of the car and the mileage itd done. So, she thought that Assurant had acted 
reasonably by considering these opinions, and in reaching their decision to decline the claim. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He doesnt agree the independent engineer couldnt 
make an assessment based on the partially stripped engine, as the cracked manifold could 
clearly be seen. Hes also said that, if the manifold failed because of thermal cycling, as 
Assurant have said, this is a normal part of how the manifold operates. So the crack mustve 
been a failure of a component to perform its normal function, not a failure by parts which 
have reached the end of their normal working life because of age or mileage. So it 
shouldve been covered by the warranty.
Mr J has also said that, because Assurant have said the fault is a well-documented problem 
on his type of car, then they shouldve made it clear that it wasnt covered. So he also 
believes the policy was mis-sold to him as it wasnt suitable for his needs. And hes asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
At the time of the breakdown, Mr Js car was over 9 years old, and had done almost 123,000 
miles. All car parts are not necessarily designed to last the lifetime of the car. And the older 
the car, and the higher the mileage, the greater the chance of mechanical parts wearing out 
and needing to be replaced. I also think that any reasonable person would expect to have to 
replace parts over time because of this. 
Its not disputed that Mr Js car broke down as a result of a cracked inlet manifold. Ive seen 
a copy of Mr Js policy with Assurant, and this covers him for labour and parts  for 
included parts in the event of a breakdown. The inlet manifold is listed as one on the 
included parts, so a claim for the failure of an inlet manifold can be made under the policy.
But the policy also has exclusions. These include any failure of parts which have reached 
the end of their normal working lives because of age or mileage. This means that, if the inlet 
manifold failed due to age and mileage, also referred to wear and tear, then Assurant are 
within their rights not to pay the claim.
Inlet manifolds are subject to whats called thermal cycling  they heat up and cool down on 
a regular basis. And when metal heats and cools on a cyclical basis, over time it will weaken. 
And this can cause cracks to occur. So, when considering the claim, Assurant would have to 
consider whether the crack in the inlet manifold was caused by normal thermal cycling, given 
the age and mileage Mr Js car had done; or whether it was caused by a sudden mechanical 
failure i.e. if it was caused by wear and tear or if the inlet manifold suddenly failed.
Its not my role to re-underwrite this claim and decide which of these scenarios was the case. 
My role is to consider whether Assurant considered the evidence they had, and if they made 
a fair decision based on that evidence and on the terms of the policy.
After Mr J challenged Assurants decision to reject his claim, they arranged for an 
independent engineer to inspect his car. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report which says, under the section 
Repairer Comments, we have found the inlet manifold to be defective and cracked. The 
crack is not fully visible. So, on the repairing garages own admission, the inlet manifold 
couldnt be fully seen. So it couldnt be fully inspected without further stripping down.
The independent engineer said that the inlet manifold did show signs of oil leakage to be 
present {but} no fractures or perforations could be identified as these were not visible due to 
being fitted to the engine. The engineer also said that no comment can be made regarding 
the exact cause of failure, due to poor engine dismantling prior to inspection. Further 
dismantling is strongly recommended.
Assurants claim notes show that, given the age and mileage the car had done, they 
originally declined the claim because sudden mechanical failure was highly unlikely. And, 
because there was nothing in the independent engineers report that indicated or evidenced 
sudden mechanical failure, they didnt see any reason to change their decision.
Given the circumstances and the contents of the independent engineers report, I dont think 
that Assurant acted unreasonably by declining Mr Js claim. And Ive not seen anything from 
Mr J or the repairing garage that shows me that the inlet manifold likely cracked due to 
sudden mechanical failure. So I wont be asking Assurant to reconsider this claim.In respect of the inlet manifold failing because of a well-documented issue, I also havent 
seen anything that shows me this was the case. But I have seen the policy excluded parts 
which fail as a result on inherent design faults. So, if this was the case that the inlet 
manifold failed because of a known issue (and I cant say that it was), I dont think itd be 
unreasonable for Assurant to decline the case for this reason. 
Mr J thinks the policy was mis-sold to him, as it wasnt suitable for his needs. But Assurant 
didnt sell the policy to Mr J, this was done by a third-party. So I wont be holding Assurant 
responsible for any potential mis-sale. This is a complaint Mr J needs to raise with the 
company who sold the policy to him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman