DRN-3492591
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) settled his 
claim on his car insurance following a theft.
What happened
Mr B had car insurance with LV that he took out in September 2018. It renewed the following 
year and shortly after the renewal his car was stolen. He made a claim on the insurance.
LV recovered the vehicle but deemed it a write off. It valued the car at £28,550.00 and 
offered a settlement of this amount, with part going towards paying the remaining finance on 
the vehicle. 
In October 2021 Mr B contacted LV to say he wasnt happy with the valuation. He said he 
had bought it for around £35,000 and it was only a year old so he should be given that. 
Further he said in the first year the policy offers a new car replacement, and it was stolen 
only a few days after the year ended, he thought LV shouldve honoured this.
He made a complaint and LV revised its offer. It said it had checked another trade guide and 
it could increase the offer to £30,238.50, based on the average of the two valuations. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this offer as he still thought he should be provided with a 
replacement. He also thought that as LV had adjusted its valuation once hed made a 
complaint, it should pay interest on the additional amount as it should have offered that as 
part of the original settlement. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
thought LVs revised valuation was fair based on the trade guides. And she didnt think it 
should pay interest on the difference as Mr B hadnt raised an issue with the valuation until 
two years after it was first accepted. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Replacement car
Mr Bs policy states that in the event of a theft or damage beyond repair, it will provide a new 
replacement of the same make and model, on the condition that: the loss or damage
happens before your car is one year old. Mr B first took out the policy when he bought the 
car  this was on 4 September 2018. The car was stolen on 18 September 2019, so at this 
point the car was more than one year old. 
I appreciate this will have been particularly frustrating for Mr B as it was only a few days after 
it reached the one-year mark. However the policy specifies that this cover is only available 
for the first year, and as the theft took place after this time, LV isnt required to provide a new 
replacement vehicle. So I cant say its acted unfairly here. 
Valuation 
Ive first considered whether the valuation LV has offered is a fair one. When considering 
whether a valuation is fair and reasonable, we consider prices provided by trade guides. This 
service considers these to generally be the most reliable for calculations as they are based 
on the amount vehicles have been sold for and take into account the specific car make and 
model, mileage and age. As well as the condition of the car.
LVs provided copies of the two trade guides it used to reach the calculation. One calculated 
the value as £28,530 and the other £31,927. LVs valuation is the average of these two 
estimates. However we have a third guide we use when considering valuations. Ive checked 
this guide as well and it gave a valuation of £30,038. As LV valued the vehicle at 
£30,238.50, and this is slightly higher than the average of the three guides, Im satisfied this 
is a fair valuation. 
However I understand Mr B is also unhappy that LV originally provided a lower valuation 
when he initially claimed. And because of this, thinks it should pay interest on the difference 
theyve offered since its revised valuation. While I appreciate Mr Bs frustration, I dont agree 
it would be fair to ask LV to pay interest. I agree it would have been better if LV had checked 
both trade guides at the time it calculated its initial valuation. However if Mr B had raised the 
issue at the time this was calculated then its likely it would have checked the second one 
then and made the payment at that stage. And the only reason this has been delayed by two 
years is because Mr B didnt report his concerns sooner. As interest reflects the time that 
elapsed, by directing LV to pay interest this would effectively penalise LV for Mr Bs delay in 
making a complaint and I dont agree this would be fair. 
Further, Ive seen no evidence that being without the money during this time has caused Mr 
B any detriment. And as LV has now paid the amount, Im satisfied its done enough to fairly 
settle the claim. I therefore wont ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman