DRN-4204749
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) declined his claim.
What happened
Mr W has a private medical insurance policy underwritten by Vitality.  
He had a vasectomy and started experiencing issues following the surgery. The initial 
medical evidence suggested Mr Ws symptoms were a complication of the vasectomy. The 
policy doesnt cover complications from surgery, so Vitality declined the claim. 
Mr W went on to arrange further treatment, which he paid for himself. Subsequent evidence 
from the surgeon who performed this treatment said Mr Ws symptoms werent a 
complication of his previous surgery - he said the symptoms were caused by a new separate 
issue. Vitality then authorised the claim for surgery on the basis of the medical opinion that 
this was a different diagnosis. 
But they then declined to pay the claim because Mr W had only sent a bill confirming the 
total amount paid for the surgery, and they required a more detailed invoice. We dealt with 
this under a previous complaint and said we thought Vitalitys actions had been fair. 
After some time and effort, Mr W was able to supply the information they had requested.
Vitality then declined the claim again because they said the hospital at which hed had his 
treatment wasnt recognised by Vitality.
Unhappy with Vitalitys response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked at what had happened. He said despite the surgery taking place at a 
hospital that wasnt on Vitalitys list, he thought it was fair and reasonable for them to pay Mr 
W what it would have cost for him to have the removal surgery done in a hospital on their 
list, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Vitality agreed to a contribution to the costs as a gesture of goodwill. They said the policy 
offers cover of 60% to proceed at an off-list hospital so they offered to reimburse 60% of the 
costs Mr W had actually incurred. They confirmed this was more favourable to Mr W than the 
cost for him to have had the surgery done in a hospital on their list, as recommended by our 
investigator. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He said he was disappointed that the offer had been reduced after 
Vitality originally agreed to pay the procedure cost. And he said he should be paid for the 
cost of a reversal operation rather than the removal that ended up taking place. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Taking everything into account here, I think Vitalitys offer to cover 60% of the costs Mr W 
has incurred is fair. Ill explain why:
Vitality said there was no indication prior to the actual surgery that it would be carried out at 
an unregistered hospital. I agree with this. But Im persuaded they had evidence of the 
hospital he had used, before they told him the claim would be covered.  
Mr W had sent Vitality a receipt for his treatment showing which clinic it had taken place at. 
Along with a letter from the same clinic advising the issue was fat necrosis. Both of these 
documents had the name of the clinic on them, so I think its unreasonable Vitality didnt raise 
an issue about the clinic not being registered at this stage in the claim.  And Im mindful that 
Vitality had initially declined the claim, so I wouldnt have expected Mr W to try to attend a 
Vitality-approved hospital.
Ive given careful consideration to what Vitality said when they indicated the claim would be 
covered if Mr W was able to provide the hospital bill. Mr W argues that he was told he would 
be reimbursed for the whole procedure cost. But Im not persuaded that is what Vitality said. 
Vitality emailed on 19 August 2022 saying:
Thank you for forwarding the clinic letter . After reviewing this information, we are happy 
to confirm that your care request will be covered as the diagnosed condition doesnt relate to 
an excluded condition under the Plan.
As we hadnt pre authorised the treatment, we dont have information relating to it. If youve 
paid for the procedure yourself, then please forward the receipted bills from the 
hospital/consultant and well reimburse you for all eligible items on the bills, in line with the 
terms and conditions of your Plan.
Its important to note that Vitality has said it will only reimburse Mr W for eligible items in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. Its not in dispute that the terms of the policy 
include a list of hospitals that are Vitality approved. And Mr Ws procedure wasnt carried out 
in a hospital on the list. 
When a claim is authorised, that doesn't necessarily mean it will be paid in full. So whilst I 
agree Vitality said they would pay eligible costs, I havent seen that they promised to pay 
the full costs of Mr Ws surgery.
Its possible if the first surgeon had more accurately diagnosed Mr Ws condition, this current 
issue would have been avoided. But unfortunately, thats not what happened. Although its of 
course not Mr Ws fault, its also not something I can fairly hold Vitality accountable for. 
As such I dont think it's fair for Vitality to have to cover the full cost of the procedure when 
they didnt promise to do so and I think they have applied the terms of their policy fairly. 
Our investigator recommended that Vitality should pay Mr W what it would have cost for him 
to have the surgery done in a hospital on their list, subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. Vitality quoted a price of £1,348 for the removal procedure and I dont think this is 
unreasonable. They dont have a procedure code for vasectomy reversal because under the 
terms of the policy, vasectomy reversal isn't covered. And in any event, this wasnt the 
procedure that went ahead. So Im satisfied its for Vitality to reimburse Mr W for the 
procedure that actually took place. 
Vitality have pointed to the term in the policy that states:"If you have added a hospital list to your plan, you must use a hospital eligible on your plan. 
If you use a hospital that is not eligible on your plan, you will have to pay 40% of the costs of 
the treatment (excluding consultants fees) yourself."
Vitality said in the circumstances, they feel its fairer to contribute the 60% off list amount 
which is £1,820 once the excess has been deducted. As this is more favourable for Mr W, I 
dont think this is unfair. 
I appreciate Mr W would like the full cost of his surgery reimbursed but I dont think that 
would be fair to Vitality because its not covered by the policy. And as above Im not 
persuaded Vitality said they would this. 
In summary, I think its reasonable for Vitality to cover 60% of the costs Mr W incurred. Im 
satisfied this is a fair outcome for both parties.
Putting things right
Vitality Health Limited need to put things right by:
Paying Mr W £1,820 to reimburse him 60% of the costs he incurred. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Vitality Health Limited must put things right in the way I have 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman