DRN-1562247
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
very brief overview here. In July 2019 Ms D was involved in an accident. Her car was in 
collision with another vehicle being driven by a third party (TP). Ms D made a claim and 
liability for the accident was disputed by the TP and their insurer.
Ultimately UKI accepted liability on Ms Ds behalf and settled the TPs claim. Theyd 
previously argued that the TP was responsible and then that liability should be split 50/50. 
Ms D was unhappy with this, she believes the TP is responsible for the accident and she 
doesnt think UKI conducted a reasonable investigation into what had happened. She was 
also unhappy with the service shed received; this related to the progress and handling of 
her claim as well as UKI failing to send her a renewal notification. 
UKI accepted there had been service failings and paid a total of £180 compensation for this. 
But they maintained their decision as to liability. Being unhappy with this Ms D referred the 
matter to our service. She clarified with our investigator that she was unhappy with the 
liability decision. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Overall, she 
concluded that UKI had acted fairly in the circumstances. 
Ms D then said that also wanted the service issues considered as she thinks the fact that 
shed complained about poor service, had influenced UKIs decision. Our investigator 
accepted the service could have been better, but thought the compensation already paid 
was fair. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint. Ive read and 
considered all shes sent in  but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. Ill focus on the 
reasons for my decision. So, if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. It is just that I dont feel the need to reference it 
to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  it is just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
It isnt the role of our service to decide who was at fault for an accident. This is something 
only a court can consider. We can only look into whether UKI conducted a reasonable 
investigation when making their decision on liability.Under the terms of the policy UKI are entitled to defend and settle a claim as they see fit. 
They also dont need Ms Ds agreement of any decision to admit liability or to settle a claim. 
UKI are also able to consider the economics of defending a claim and taking any legal 
action. 
Overall, I think UKI investigated matters reasonably. Efforts were made to obtain CCTV 
footage of the accident. They considered what both Ms D and the TP said and they also 
considered pictures and reports of the damage to both vehicles. When the TP initially 
provided a statement from an independent witness, they challenged this as it wasnt in an 
official format and didnt provide sufficient detail. UKI also tried to settle on a 50/50 basis, but 
once more detail from the witness was provided they accepted liability. 
I acknowledge Ms D has very strong opinions on this and that she believes the witness isnt 
independent and couldnt have seen what he said he did. But UKI didnt find a link between 
the witness and the TP and I dont think there is enough to say UKI should have disregarded 
the witness statement as unreliable. 
Broadly speaking the independent witnesss testimony supported the TPs version of events 
 particularly on the key point of whether or not Ms Ds lights were on at the time.  Ms D may 
disagree with the UKIs interpretation of the evidence and their decision to settle the claim on 
a full liability basis. But I dont think UKI failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised 
their discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to settle the claim as they did. 
Ms D added that she is also unhappy with the service UKI provided and she thinks this 
influenced their decision. Ive not seen evidence to support that UKIs decision about the 
claim was influenced by Ms D having made a complaint. And here, UKI accepted that some 
of the service theyd provided wasnt of the standard they usually aim for. 
So all that remains for me to decide is whether the £180 that UKI have already paid is fair in 
the circumstances. Having carefully considered this, I think it is. This is understandably a 
very important issue to Ms D but I think the crux of her frustration and dissatisfaction is about 
UKIs decision rather than the service they provided. This is supported by what she initially 
told our investigator. 
But that doesnt mean that the poor service didnt have an impact on Ms D. Overall, I think 
the £180 already paid is fair to compensate for the service failings that UKI are responsible 
for. So, Im not going to tell them that this needs to be increased or that they need to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman