DRN-2552219
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of 
his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a Personal Pension in 1991.
What happened
Mr C was made redundant in 1991 and was offered a financial review at this time. As part of 
this review Lloyds recommended that he transferred his OPS into a Personal Pension.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pension Review". It aimed to address concerns 
about the possible widespread mis-selling of Personal Pension Plans between these dates. 
Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that 
firms had to use to determine the level of any redress due.
The review was intended to be one-off exercise to try and put right any damage caused by 
poor advice. Where compensation was offered, it was calculated based on the 
methodology and assumptions about what would happen between the review and 
retirement age. The assumptions and methodology were set by the regulator and 
businesses were required to follow them.
Lloyds carried out a review in 1998, which it said was carried out in line with the 
guidelines set by the regulator. The review concluded that Mr C had not suffered a loss 
due to the advice to transfer.
More recently Mr C has complained about the transfer as he feels he has been left worse 
off due to the advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Cs complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
him. But there isnt much further I can add that hasnt already been explained by the 
investigator. However, Ill provide a summary of why I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld.
Lloyds carried out a review of his pension transfer in 1998. As they were required to do. And 
it found that at the time of the review using the regulators guidance and methodology, Mr C 
wasnt worse off for having transferred and so there was no redress due. 
It was considered a reasonable conclusion at the time that the benefits Mr C had built up 
within his Personal Pension were as valuable as what he wouldve had in his OPS. Meaning 
that his Personal Pension would likely at least meet the benefits he wouldve got at 
retirement within the OPS at age 65. 
The regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out these loss 
calculations. These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining things like 
future investment returns. Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review 
calculations havent in hindsight turned out as expected. In reality, investment returns were 
much lower than predicted and annuity rates have fallen. But I'm afraid this doesn't mean 
Lloyds must redo the calculation. Under the terms of the Pensions Review, it was only 
required to conduct the review once, using the standards and assumptions the regulator told 
them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions or predictions they used were 
considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss. 
The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and 
would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a Pension Review on a policy, 
they werent required to review it again. At the time most pension providers got specialist 
agencies to do the reviews and businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal 
and external quality checks. So, Im satisfied that the calculations are likely to be correct. 
And having looked over them, Ive seen nothing to suggest a mistake was made.
I understand Mr Cs frustration and that hes still very unhappy with the advice he was given 
in 1991  that he feels he was misled. But the Pension Review was born out of the need to 
look into the type of advice that he was given. Mr Cs situation is exactly what the Pension 
Review was designed for. To do these review calculations at a much later date, had 
significant drawbacks, as firms may no longer have existed at that point and investors 
couldve made further transfers and investment decisions. And so for the most part, reviews 
were carried out there and then as instructed by the regulator. What Mr C is asking for is for 
this to be looked into again now  but its already been considered  and to ask firms to 
continually re-review the transfers wouldnt be practical or reasonable.
In conclusion I think that the Pension Review was the correct way to address Mr Cs transfer. 
And it represented a fair and reasonable conclusion to the matter in 1998.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman