DRN-3573327
The complaint
Miss R s representative, complains on her behalf that Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) unfairly declined to fully settle a claim on her motor insurance policy after an 
accident.
References to Miss R, or her representative, will include the other.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss Rs representative, who is a named driver on Miss Rs motor 
insurance policy, was involved in an accident with a third-party whilst driving her car. He 
admitted liability and failed a roadside breath test. Miss Rs representative was arrested at 
the scene and taken to hospital. 
In phone calls with Admiral in December 2020 Miss Rs representative confirmed he was 
over the legal limit of alcohol to drive and that he had provided a positive roadside breath 
reading. He said no specimen of blood or urine was taken when he was at the hospital for 
checks after the accident.
Miss Rs car was beyond repair and recorded as written off as a total loss.
 
Admiral settled the third-party claim in March 2021. It rejected to settle the total loss of 
Miss Rs car, because as her representative had been found to be over the legal limit of 
alcohol to drive, he had breached the terms and conditions of the policy.
In September 2021 the case in relation to a charge of driving whilst unfit through drink 
against Miss Rs representative was discontinued. Miss Rs representative contacted 
Admiral to ask for an update on what would happen with the claim for the total loss of her car 
now.
Admiral said although Miss Rs representative was not convicted of the offence it had based 
its decision to decline the claim for the total loss of Miss Rs car on the evidence of the 
phone calls it had with Miss Rs representative. In these calls he confirmed he was over the 
legal limit and had provided a positive roadside breath reading.  
Admiral said even though Miss Rs representative had not been convicted of the offence of 
driving whilst unfit through drink, this had no bearing on the application of general condition 
11, a drink and drugs clause within the policy, and it was still unable to deal with the claim.
As Miss Rs representative was not happy with Admiral, he brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they were 
convinced the terms of the policy were breached and Admiral had acted within their terms 
when it declined the claim. 
As Miss Rs representative is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral said that, on the balance of probabilities, Miss Rs representative was over the drink 
driving limit at the time of the collision. The evidence it relied on was: 
at the time of the accident Miss Rs representative was found to be over the legal drink 
limit after undertaking a roadside breath test.
Two separate phone conversations in which Miss Rs representative confirmed he was 
over the legal drink limit.
I have also considered Miss Rs representatives points that: 
although the roadside breath test reading was over the limit this is not a definitive result 
on its own. There was no specimen of blood or urine taken to confirm or reject the 
roadside breath test. 
As the case against him was dropped in September 2021 and he was not convicted of 
drink driving this means Admiral are incorrect to deny his claim due to him being over the 
legal limit for drink. 
I listened to a call between Admiral and Miss Rs representative that took place in 
December 2020 after the accident. He confirmed he was over the legal drink limit at the time 
of the accident. In one of the calls he said when at the hospital he was asked to give a blood 
sample, but he didnt. He said a nurse was unable to take a blood sample from his arm and 
he was not comfortable with it being taken from elsewhere. He confirmed he was pretty sure 
he would be charged with failing to provide a sample. I also heard him decline to confirm 
what the alcohol reading was at the roadside.
Even though the prosecution case against Miss Rs representative was dropped this was 
due to there not being enough evidence. I do not think this is proof that he was not over the 
legal limit. 
After consideration of the points made by both Admiral and Miss Rs representative, Im 
satisfied Admiral have provided enough evidence to prove the policy terms werent followed. 
I think Admiral reasonably and fairly decided that Miss Rs representative was over the legal 
limit for alcohol at the time of the accident. 
Admiral then relied on a policy exclusion to reject Miss Rs representatives claim. I looked at 
the policy terms and conditions and within the general terms it says;
Drink and drugs clause
If an accident happens whilst you or any person entitled to drive under Section 3 of your
current Certificate of Motor Insurance is driving your car and:
is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without lawful 
reason
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting 
the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances, we will recover 
from you or the driver, all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in settlement or 
under a Judgement, of any claim arising from the accident.I think Admiral were fair to exclude the claim for Miss Rs car because of the above clause. 
My decision is consistent with the approach we have taken in similar circumstances.
Therefore, I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint and I wont be asking Admiral to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman