DRN-2005818
 
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way in which American Express Services Europe Limited handled 
his claim after a credit card payment was duplicated. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr E booked flights and paid with his American Express credit card. In 
error, the airline duplicated the payment. Mr E contacted American Express seeking a refund 
of one of the payments. American Express agreed to raise a dispute with the airline and, Mr 
E says, assured him that he wouldn't need to make payment for the amount in dispute.   
In the event, American Express raised two disputes with the airline, one for each payment. 
The airline issued a refund for one payment almost immediately; it rejected the claim in 
respect of the other payment, which had of course been taken correctly.
Mr E had a direct debit set up on his credit card account, with instructions for American 
Express to take the full amount due on each monthly statement. Because of that, American 
Express took the full payment due - without deducting the refund which the airline had made. 
Mr E feels therefore that he did pay for both credit card payments before receiving the 
benefit of the refund the following month. 
Mr E complained to American Express about the way this had been handled, but it didn't feel 
it had done anything wrong. He referred the matter to this service, and one of our 
investigators considered it. She noted that American Express had raised two chargeback 
claims instead of one. She thought that would have caused Mr E some distress and 
suggested compensation of £50. American Express accepted the investigator's view, but Mr 
E asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note first of all that the initial error here was the airline's. Mr E's complaint is therefore about 
how American Express sought to resolve it. 
I agree that it was an error to raise two chargeback requests, when only one payment  was 
in dispute. Ultimately, it made no practical difference, since only one payment was refunded. 
I can however understand why Mr E might have thought that, by challenging both, American 
Express might have caused him to lose his flights. 
Mr E says too that he was misled in the telephone call he had when he first told American 
Express about the problem. He says he was told payment wouldn't be needed while the 
payment was in dispute. American Express says it listened to the call as part of its 
investigation, but doesn't believe it provided incorrect information. I think it unlikely though 
that Mr E was warned that, if he had a direct debit set up for the full amount of his monthly statements, additional payments (or, in this case, refunds) wouldn't be deducted from the 
direct debit amount. Although that's normal practice among credit card providers and Mr 
E's statement told him that the sum due on the statement would be taken, I think it would 
have been helpful for American Express to draw his attention to that. He might then have 
been able to make temporary adjustments to accommodate the situation. 
Putting things right
Overall, however, I think that the investigator's recommendation that American Express pay 
Mr E £50 in compensation is fair in the circumstances. I don't propose to increase that sum, 
but I shall make a formal award, so that Mr E can enforce it, should he need to do so.   
My final decision
My final decision is that , to resolve Mr E's complaint in full, American Express Services 
Europe Limited should pay Mr E £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman