DRN-3192421
The complaint
Mr P complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim about his boiler under 
his home emergency policy.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr P had his boiler serviced. The engineer identified a problem with the boiler 
and carried out some repairs. This work was covered by his home emergency policy. Mr P 
says the boiler was working prior to the engineers visit, but afterwards it wasnt. He was told 
his boiler had been declared beyond economical repair (BER) because a part that needed 
replacing was obsolete. Mr P thinks the engineer broke his boiler.
Aviva says its engineer replaced the gas valve and a fuse and noticed a further problem with 
the primary circuit board (PCB). This was replaced but an electrical wire was also needed, 
and this was found to be obsolete. Aviva says it only uses components sourced from 
reputable suppliers, and it was confirmed this part was no longer available. Because of this 
its engineer couldnt repair the boiler and it was declared BER. 
Mr P is unhappy as he says the engineer told him the boiler was working perfectly fine. He 
thinks the engineer should have had all the necessary parts available before attempting the 
repair. Having raised his concerns, he says he was promised a call back within 24 to 48 
hours. But this didnt happen.
Aviva says it couldnt verify what was promised regarding the call back or what was orally 
discussed with the engineer. It acknowledges that Mr Ps elderly parents were impacted by 
the lack of hot water and heating. It paid £150 in compensation to acknowledge this and for 
the delay in confirming the boiler was BER. 
The business says its engineer wont have known further parts were required until he started 
repairing the boiler. It says even if he waited to see if an electrical wire was available, before 
attempting the repair, the outcome would be the same. This is because the electrical wire 
was still needed, and this part was no longer available. Aviva says it paid £200 to Mr P as a 
contribution toward a new boiler, as required by its policy terms.
Mr P wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought the records provided by Aviva showed 
the engineer wasnt at fault that the boiler was deemed to be BER. He felt it was fair for the 
business to pay £150 in compensation. And that the £200 contribution toward a new boiler 
was reasonable in the circumstances and in line with the policy terms.
Mr P disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. It has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As well as his concerns with the repair of his boiler Mr P has also raised issues with how his 
complaint was handled. This has been responded to separately. So, I wont be considering 
this here. 
The terms of Mr Ps policy provide cover for faults with his boiler. The terms say:
Policy Coverage
Obsolete parts: We use reputable suppliers who stock the usual parts required to fix most 
boilers. However if, when attempting to fix your system we find that the relevant 
manufacturers spare parts are not readily available after a search of all our stockists or that 
parts may be available but will take longer than 28 days to source, we will not be able to 
complete your repair. Please refer to obsolete parts section for details of what we will do in 
these situations.
In this event we will deem that we can no longer offer you gas boiler breakdown cover and 
will make a contribution of £200 towards the cost of a new boiler. 
From the records provided by Aviva it checked the availability of the required electrical wire 
with its approved suppliers. As the part was no longer produced its reasonable that it 
confirmed this to Mr P and advised the repair wasnt possible and his boiler was deemed 
BER.
Mr P says the part in question is available by looking online. I dont dispute this. But Aviva 
says it only uses components sourced from reputable suppliers. It says the boiler 
manufacturer confirms this part is obsolete. Although I acknowledge Mr Ps comments, I 
dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in deciding the boiler was BER when it had 
confirmation from the manufacturer that this part was obsolete, and it couldnt be obtained 
through its established suppliers. 
Mr P has since confirmed he paid for a new boiler to be installed as opposed to the old one 
being repaired. The indication being that a repair wasnt possible.  
I have thought about Mr Ps view that the engineer broke his boiler as it was working before 
he touched it.  
Aviva says its not always possible to immediately identify the root cause of a fault. It says 
that when a part is replaced this can expose a weakness with another part, which may also 
need replacing. It refers to its engineers applying a process of elimination approach to 
identify where a fault lies. 
Im not an engineer and must rely on the expert opinion provided. From the records the 
engineer did identify a fault when servicing the boiler. This initially involved replacing the gas 
valve, but further issues were then revealed. Aviva says it has a duty of care to try and 
rectify a fault if this is covered by its policy terms. Based on the records I think Avivas 
engineer acted reasonably to try and fix the fault he identified. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps comments that his boiler was working before the engineer visited. But 
this doesnt mean a fault wasnt present that required fixing. I think the evidence is 
persuasive that a fault was identified with the boiler, and Avivas engineer acted 
appropriately to try and fix it. Mr P hasnt provided evidence that confirms otherwise.  
I have also thought about Mr Ps view that the engineer shouldnt have attempted the repair 
unless he had all the parts needed for the job. I acknowledge Avivas comments that it isnt always possible to know what components will 
be needed before a repair is attempted. As above a process of elimination approach is used. 
In this case the records show that after the valve was replaced, the engineer found the PCB 
also needed replacing. It then came to light that the electrical wire, now confirmed to be 
obsolete, was also faulty. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps point. But even if the engineer had waited to see if the electrical wire 
could be obtained before attempting a repair, the likelihood is that this component would still 
be needed, and the repair wouldnt be possible. 
I understand this was a difficult time for Mr P and his family, given they had no heating or hot 
water while the boiler wasnt working. I sympathise that hes had to pay for a new boiler to be 
fitted. But I dont think hes shown that a fault wasnt present with his boiler, or that the 
engineer acted unreasonably when attempting to carry out a repair. 
Having considered all of this I think Aviva acted fairly in paying £150 compensation for the 
four days it took to respond to Mr P and confirm the boiler was BER. I also think it acted 
fairly and in line with the policy terms when providing a £200 contribution toward a new 
boiler. Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman