DRN-1908603
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage with Santander in 2005. At the same time he bought a PPI policy
which wouldve covered his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if he couldnt 
work due to accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mr C says that he doesnt remember the cancellation terms being explained to him and that
he assumed he needed the PPI. He says he wasnt told what PPI was.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator thought
that the terms hadnt been explained properly to Mr C, and if they had been he wouldnt have 
bought the policy.
Santander disagreed, so the case was passed to me to make a decision. I disagreed with 
the adjudicator's initial view and provisionally didn't uphold Mr C's complaint. I gave both 
parties an opportunity to provide more information or comments by 30 May 2020. Neither 
party made any further comments so I haven't changed my decision, which is explained 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when considering this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr C doesnt suggest he didnt have a choice about the PPI or that it was added without his
knowledge or consent. He says he assumed he needed the PPI, but thats not the same a
suggesting he was told by Santander that he had to have it.
Santander has confirmed that PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage and I havent seen
anything in the paperwork to suggest it was compulsory, or which would have led Mr C to
assume he needed it.
So Im satisfied Mr C took out the PPI knowing he didnt have to.
Santander say it would have given Mr C a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it
needed to take steps to make sure the policy was right for him. Santander says it would
have done this, but I dont have any evidence to support this, so its possible this didnt
happen.But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mr Cs complaint. I need to consider
whether, if Mr C had all the information he needed, he wouldve made a different decision
and not bought the policy.
When the adjudicator first reviewed this complaint they noted that Mr C had an existing
medical condition when he bought the policy. This wouldnt have been covered under the
terms of the policy, because it was a chronic condition which Mr C experienced in the 12
months before taking the policy. The adjudicator thought if Mr C had understood this that he
wouldnt have bought the policy.
I dont agree. I dont think even if Mr C had fully understood his condition wouldnt be
covered under the policy that it would have prevented him from buying the policy. I dont
think Mr C wouldve thought it was the most likely reason for being off work for at least a
month. Whilst Mr Cs condition was chronic and managed through treatment of symptoms
rather than curable, I dont think it was likely to have led to significant time off work. Mr C has 
confirmed that he hadnt had any time off work as a result of it.
So I dont think Mr C wouldve decided not to buy the policy if hed understood his existing
condition wasnt covered.
Its possible that Santander didnt make clear other information in relation to the policy. But
looking at Mr Cs circumstances at the time I dont think this wouldve made him act
differently, either. Mr C was eligible for the policy and I dont think he was affected by any of
the terms which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim (other
than in the way Ive already described). Mr C was entitled to some contractual sick pay and
at least some statutory redundancy pay, but the policy would have paid out in addition to this 
and potentially for considerably longer. Mr C had a small amount of savings and says he 
could have sold assets or asked for help from family if he couldnt pay his mortgage. But the 
policy would have prevented him having to do this. And although Im sure Mr Cs family
would have wanted to help out if they could, this kind of support cant be guaranteed. So, if
Mr C had been off work I think the policy provided a useful benefit.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on sale around the
same time. It was flexible, as it could be cancelled at any time without financial penalty. Mr C 
says the cancellation terms werent explained to him. Santander says that would have been 
part of the sales process. I can see that the accompanying literature did explain this. I can 
also see that Santander explained to Mr C how he could cancel his policy when it first
responded to his complaint but Mr C chose not to do so.
So although Mr C may not have got all the information he needed, I dont think he lost out as 
a result.
My final decision
I'm not upholding Mr C's complaint so it follows that Santander UK plc doesn't have to pay 
any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman