DRN-3670006
The complaint
This complaint is about how Santander UK Plc (Santander) handled the repossession of 
Mr Ks property.
What happened
Mr K was unable to keep up with his contractual monthly payments on his mortgage over a 
period of several years and in January 2020, Santander repossessed Mr Ks property. 
Mr Ks representative informed Santander of their intention to pay off the outstanding 
mortgage in full and rent the property back to Mr K. They provided evidence they had the 
available funds to do so and asked for a redemption statement. They say they were told this 
would take 6 to 10 working days.
Mr K re-entered the property shortly after it was repossessed. Around the same time, there 
was a leak which caused some damage to the property.
When Santander became aware of this, it made plans to repossess the property again. The 
second repossession took place in March 2020 and shutters were fitted to prevent Mr K 
entering the property again. 
Mr K says the second repossession wasnt necessary and the installation of the shutters was 
very embarrassing given he resides in a small community. He says this delayed his 
representative from purchasing the property, which caused further stress and additional 
costs, particularly as he was homeless during the coronavirus, Covid-19 pandemic (the 
pandemic). He says there were also unnecessary delays because the redemption 
statement wasnt received when promised despite multiple requests.
Santander says it gave Mr K misinformation about obtaining a redemption statement for the 
mortgage and didnt keep him fully up to date with its intention to repossess the property a 
second time. It offered Mr K compensation of £500 for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
But, it said it was right to repossess the property again in March 2020 and so it isnt 
responsible for any delays or additional costs incurred as a result.  
Mr K still thinks it was unnecessary for Santander to repossess the property again and he 
wants more compensation for the financial loss incurred and the stress and inconvenience 
caused to him. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks concerns but found that Santanders response to his 
complaint was fair in the circumstances. As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I think is relevant 
to this complaint. I also wont use exact figures as I dont think this will be necessary to 
explain my findings and this level of detail could reduce Mr Ks anonymity when the decision 
is published.
Mr K admits that he re-entered the property, but he says he only did this to obtain his work 
clothes. He doesnt think this means he took possession of the property back and so he 
doesnt believe it was necessary for Santander to repossess the property again. He also 
denies that hes responsible for the leak.
Santander has provided evidence that the property assistance team inspected the property 
shortly after it was repossessed in January 2020. It has provided photos that show Mr K was 
sleeping at the property during the inspection. The evidence also shows that the water 
supply was turned off when the property was initially repossessed, but it had been turned 
back on when the leak occurred. Santander says this evidenced that Mr K had taken back 
possession of the property and so it was required to apply for a Restitution of Warrant in 
February 2020 in order to legally repossess the property again and Mr K would be 
responsible for any charges incurred as a result of this. 
I know this must have been a very difficult time for Mr K and Ive thought about what hes 
said carefully. But considering everything, I dont think the actions Santander took were 
unreasonable. Based on the evidence it had, Santander was required to follow the correct 
process to repossess the property. 
Santander took the correct steps to protect the property by having the water supply turned 
off during the first repossession and so I dont think its responsible for the damage incurred 
by the leak. It seems more likely than not that Mr K turned the water back on when he re-
entered the property. 
To prevent any further issues, after taking back possession of the property, Santander 
arranged for it to be made more secure and shutters were fitted for this reason. While these 
events have undoubtedly increased stress for Mr K and I appreciate it may have been 
embarrassing for him at the time, I dont think Santander can be held responsible for this. 
So, I think the additional costs and delay caused were unavoidable and Santander doesnt 
need to cover this or offer an award for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Santander has confirmed that it shouldnt have agreed to produce a redemption statement 
when it did. As the property had already been repossessed the properties in possession 
team would have been responsible for arranging a redemption statement. Then, as Mr K had 
re-entered the property only a couple of days later, and Santander was required to 
repossess the property again, the third party handling the repossession would have been 
responsible for producing the redemption statement. Santander also said that it should have 
informed Mr K of the repossession sooner.
Mr K experienced a delay in receiving the redemption statement and had to ask for it a 
number of times before being given the correct information. He also wasnt kept up to date 
with information about the second repossession. Santander offered Mr K £500 for the stress 
and inconvenience caused by this and I think the offer is fair and in line with what the 
ombudsman service would award in similar circumstances. 
I dont think the misinformation caused an additional delay in terms of Mr Ks representative 
purchasing the property. I say this because the redemption would have been delayed by the 
second repossession in any case and there were processes that needed to be followed in order for a third party to pay off the outstanding debt and become the legal owner of the 
property.
The pandemic started shortly after the second repossession occurred. This unfortunately 
meant Mr K was homeless for a period of time during the pandemic before his representative 
could finalise purchasing the property. I cant imagine how difficult this would have been for 
Mr K, but I dont think Santander could have pre-empted the pandemic and so the actions it 
took were reasonable at the time. 
In summary, Santander should have given Mr K better information about obtaining a 
redemption statement and the second repossession, but the award its offered for this is fair. 
Mr Ks re-entry of the property meant that Santander had to repossess it again. Santander 
took reasonable steps to protect the property. And the required processes meant it wouldnt 
have been possible for Mr Ks representative to have purchased the property any sooner. 
So, while I empathise with Mr Ks situation, I dont think Santander can be held responsible 
for any financial loss and I make no further award for the stress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman