DRN-2663704
The complaint
Mr W complains that a van he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
First Response Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. 
Since referring his complaint to us, Mr W has sold the van and settled the hire purchase 
agreement. But he wants First Response Finance to refund him £300.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint and our investigator set out in 
detail what happened. I wont repeat that here. Instead Ill focus on explaining the reasons 
for my decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Whilst he concluded 
the van wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, he thought First Response 
Finance had done enough to compensate Mr W, and that it had given him the opportunity to 
reject the vehicle.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he was never given the opportunity to reject the van.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. First Response Finance is the supplier of 
goods under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault/s materialised. 
The van in this case was around seven years old and had a relatively high mileage of around 
131,000. So its reasonable to expect that there would be some wear and tear issues 
developing and materialising during the four-year term of the finance agreement. But Mr W 
reported problems the day after the van was supplied. And then, over the next few weeks 
the van had to be returned to the garage on several occasions for repairs. Taking into 
account this happened so soon after the van was supplied, I find its likely that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
It follows that First Response Finance is responsible for putting things right. After careful 
consideration, I find its done enough and does not need to take any further action. I say this 
because:
When the supplying garage carried out repairs during February to May 2020, it did so at 
no cost to Mr W.
Mr W was supplied with a courtesy van during this period, so he still had use of a 
vehicle.
First Response Finance refunded three months payments, totalling £601.53 and paid 
Mr W £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this was fair compensation 
in the circumstances.
In October 2020, there was a fault with the fuel pump and Mr W arranged for repairs 
which cost £620. I cant see that First Response Finance was given the opportunity to 
inspect the van and Ive not seen evidence to show that this fault was connected to the 
faults reported in the early days following supply of the van. So I cant say with any 
certainty that this fault was present or developing when the van was supplied. But First 
Response Finance paid half of the repair costs as a gesture of goodwill. I consider this to 
be fair in the circumstances.
Shortly afterwards, the engine control unit required repair. Again, Ive not seen evidence 
to show that this was a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply. But 
First Response Finance agreed to pay for the cost of repairs in full - £1,472.50.
The following month, Mr W told First Response Finance that the van needed a new 
copper strip and fuse box. First Response Finance arranged for an independent report 
which concluded that the issues werent present at the point of supply. But the 
manufacturers garage said the copper strip needed replacing because it had only been 
temporarily fixed. Its not clear whether that temporary fix took place before or after the 
van had been supplied to Mr W. But First Response Finance agreed to pay for the cost 
of repair - £499. It also refunded one monthly payment.
Overall, I think First Response Finance has acted fairly in paying for or contributing to the 
various repairs, including those where there was no evidence that the underlying fault 
was present or developing when the van was supplied.
Ive also seen evidence to show that First Response Finance offered to accept Mr Ws 
rejection of the van and cancel the agreement. Im aware Mr W strongly disagreed. But 
I can see - from First Response Finances contact notes with Mr W and from listening to 
some of the recorded phone calls - that First Response Finance did offer to cancel the 
agreement and to accept Mr Ws rejection of the van. Im not surprised Mr W cant 
remember the detail of all of his contact with First Response Finance because this was 
clearly a very stressful experience for him  he needed the van for work, and he 
experienced several problems with it. I also understand why Mr W did not want to reject 
the van  because he needed it for work; because during the 2020 lockdown he was 
worried about how he would find a new van; and because he had concerns that he might 
not be accepted for a new finance agreement. But I think it was fair that First Response 
Finance made the offer to cancel the agreement  on more than one occasion. And then 
I think it acted fairly in supporting his decision for the van to be repaired.Mr W decided, in February 2021 to settle the agreement so that he could obtain another 
van. First Response Finance told him he needed to pay £4,913.56. But, in the interests 
of providing Mr W with a satisfactory outcome, it agreed to reduce the amount he needed 
to pay by £613.56. Mr W appeared to accept this as he paid the reduced sum - £4,300. 
He told us he wanted a further refund of £300. In providing a reduction to the amount he 
owed, I find First Response Finance has treated Mr W fairly. I dont find any reason for it 
to compensate him further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman