DRN-1542894
The complaint
Mr H complains that Leeds Building Society (Leeds) are unwilling to change their systems to 
allow correspondence to his Power of Attorney to be sent to Mr H address. 
What happened
Mr H has a savings account with Leeds held under a Power of Attorney. His appointed 
Power of Attorney has asked Leeds, along with Mr H, for statements and other 
correspondence,  to be sent to Mr Hs address. Leeds says their systems do not allow for the 
address to be changed and sent to Mr H. 
Mr H is unhappy with this, as other banks he holds accounts with do this for him and 
suggested to Leeds they should provide stamped addressed envelopes, so his Power of 
Attorney doesnt incur costs forwarding on his statements to him. 
Leeds say they are sorry their systems do not allow for this and the only way to change this 
is to remove the Power of Attorney. Leeds say they havent done anything wrong and this is 
how their system works for customers who have appointed a Power of Attorney and are not 
prepared to provide stamp addressed envelopes.  
Mr H was unhappy with their response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the available information but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint as he 
felt that this service couldnt direct Leeds to change it systems. The investigator says that 
Leeds arent obliged to provide stamped addressed envelopes to cover Mr H and his Power 
of Attorneys postage costs.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Leeds have acted unreasonably 
when refusing to change their systems to accommodate Mr Hs request. 
Leeds have a system whereby any correspondence regarding Mr Hs account must be sent 
to the named Power of Attorney once appointed. Their website informs us that :
"Please note, once an Attorney/Deputy is added to an account, all future correspondence is 
sent to their address 
I can understand that it would be frustrating to Mr H and his Power of Attorney not to have 
statements sent to the address they wish but as the investigator has explained it is not my 
role to tell businesses how the must run their systems . My role is to ensure that customers 
are not financially disadvantaged as a result and I cant see Mr H is here   after all Leeds 
are simply acting in line with the address given to them under the Power of Attorney, it 
follows, I cant see that Leeds should be obliged to provide stamped addressed envelopes to 
accommodate Mr Hs needs.
I know that Mr H feels that Leeds are not being helpful here, but Powers of Attorney are put 
in place for specific reasons and Leeds have their own rules on how these accounts should 
operate and its not for me to tell them otherwise. 
Leeds did suggest to Mr H that the only way to amend the address was to remove the Power 
of  Attorney, although I can understand that this may be impractical for Mr H and the Power 
of Attorney. That said, this service has since been advised, following further correspondence 
with Leeds, that they are able to change the Power of Attorneys address to that of Mr H 
under instruction to do so from the Power of Attorney. Although if this were to happen, it 
would mean, should the Power of Attorney open any other accounts with Leeds, in his 
personal name or as a Power of Attorney for someone else in the future, all correspondence 
would then be sent to Mr H and this could be problematical.
I will leave it with Mr H and the Power of Attorney to take this up with Leeds if they feel this 
could be a workable arrangement. 
I know that my decision will be disappointing to Mr H but it follows I wont be asking anymore 
of Leeds here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman