DRN-1978610
 
The complaint
Mr T says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Mr T two loans in total during the period January - February 2017. 
Heres a chart showing some of the main loan details:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest* 
Repayment
107/01/2017 Outstanding 6 £80.00 £33.92
226/02/2017 Outstanding 6 £520.00 £247.11
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
When Lending Stream first looked at Mr Ts complaint it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr T 
was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair of Lending Stream to 
have provided loan 1  but he said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr T. 
He explained why and set out the steps he said Lending Stream should take to put things 
right for Mr T.
Lending Stream reconsidered its position and said that it was willing to accept the outcome 
of our adjudicators finding. Lending Stream sent us details showing the figures it had 
worked out and we forwarded this information to Mr T. 
Mr T isnt happy with this proposed settlement. So his complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. 
Although Mr T first of all said he was happy to settle the complaint the way the adjudicator 
recommended, he later changed his mind. As I understand things, it seems that once Mr T 
was able to see how the figures worked out, and he understood that Lending Stream was 
fairly entitled to put the refund it owed him towards paying some of the outstanding balance 
Mr T still owed, then he no longer wanted to settle the complaint in the way the adjudicator 
had recommended.
Ive independently looked at his complaint afresh and considered both the loans  and 
having done so, Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator  and for the same reasons 
that the adjudicator explained in his view letter. But Ill say a bit more about why I say this  
and I hope this is helpful in explaining my decision.
Looking at loan 1, Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded for 
Mr T, including income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. 
Overall, looking at the repayments that Mr T needed to make on loan 1, the amounts 
wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. I've taken into account: 
the loan repayment amounts,
what was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances at the time and
the fact that this was Mr Ts first Lending Stream loan so he had no borrowing history 
with Lending Stream at that stage that couldve alerted the lender to any possible 
money problems.
And given all this, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr T 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first loan. So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about loan 1.
Like the adjudicator, I dont think Lending Stream shouldve provided loan 2 to Mr T. As 
Lending Stream has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it is willing to take the 
steps he suggested to put things right for Mr T, I dont think I need to say more about why its 
fair to uphold this loan. 
And I think the way the adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Its in line with our approach when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances where Mr T has had the benefit of the money he borrowed and he still hasnt 
paid back what he now owes  even taking into account the refund Lending Stream will pay 
him.
So I think Lending Stream should now do what it has offered to put things right. 
I take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream (or any third party) that it should discuss 
payment options with Mr T and treat him fairly and sympathetically if an outstanding capital 
balance still remains after offsetting and Mr T needs further time to pay what he still owes.
And if Mr T would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream isnt able to buy the debts back then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2 and treat any 
repayments made by Mr T as though they had been repayments of the principal 
B.if this results in Mr T having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled (this is unlikely 
looking at the figures Ive seen, but Im including this direction in case the 
information I've seen is now out of date and this changes things) 
C. if (as seems more likely) Mr T still owes an outstanding balance in respect of unpaid 
loans then the amounts calculated in "A" should be used to repay the balance 
remaining outstanding. And Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr T in respect of the amount he still has to pay  as it has 
offered to do
D. remove all adverse entries from Mr Ts credit file for loan 2 once it is repaid (and ask 
any debt purchaser to do the same) * HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ts complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman