DRN-3242488
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding him liable for a series of payments from his 
accounts that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Unfortunately, the background facts surrounding this case are opaque. Ive read everything
submitted by both sides and listened to the calls Mr S had with our Investigator and with the
business. Ive set out my understanding of the background circumstances below.
Mr S had a current account and a savings account with Lloyds. On 25 July 2019, he was at a
social gathering at a busy pub in central London with friends. After he left the pub, he used
an ATM in the same area before he took a taxi home. He said a group of people approached
him at that ATM. The last activity on the card that Mr S says was carried out by him was a
payment in the pub at 12:42am and a balance enquiry at a nearby ATM at 2:51am. There
were two ATM withdrawals around 3:15am and two relatively low value card payments at
3:55am and 5:08am.
There were then concerted attempts to use the card for high value withdrawals and
payments from 8:53am until 2:53pm that day. These were predominantly cash machine
withdrawals, payments for taxi fares and many payments to high-street betting shops. In
response to the first of these payments at 8:53am, Lloyds says it sent a text message to the
number associated with the account. This message asked for confirmation that these first 
attempted withdrawals had been made by Mr S and it received an affirmative response.
During the period that this activity was taking place, Mr S told us he had already returned
home. When he awoke the following morning, he says that he took a taxi to work. He said
hed overslept and felt unusually disoriented. Hes speculated that he might have had his
drink spiked in the pub as part of the fraud, because its rare that he responds to alcohol that
way.
In the taxi to work, he noticed that his mobile phone said it didnt have a SIM card. This had
escaped his attention while he was at home because the phone still had the normal
functionality when it was connected to his Wi-Fi network. He says he didnt make a
connection in his mind between the missing SIM with the events of the previous night. This
handset had had persistent technical difficulties and he thought it could simply be an error.
It was a work phone, so when he arrived at work he requested and obtained a new handset
and a new SIM. He asked a colleague to port his number onto the new SIM. He
redownloaded the Lloyds banking app and realised that there were a large number of
transactions that had been made from his account without his knowledge or authorisation.
He called Lloyds to let it know what had happened. He said that it was only after noticing
these transactions that he realised that there were two cards missing from his wallet. He
suspected that the SIM had been taken from his phone while he was out that evening so that
the fraudsters could intercept any potential confirmatory text messages sent by Lloyds. He
later said that hed been approached at the ATM by a group of people but didnt say more
about this interaction.
Lloyds said it wouldnt refund the payments to Mr Ss account. It said that there was no
obvious point at which his PIN couldve been compromised and that it had sent him a text
message to check that he authorised the spending. It wasnt persuaded that any fraudulent
activity had taken place. It also said it would close Mr Ss accounts and gave him notice of its
intention to do so.
Mr S was unhappy with the response from Lloyds and so he referred a complaint to this
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. Mr S disagreed with the
Investigators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
I asked Mr S for further information to try and identify how the fraud couldve taken place. He
confirmed that his wallet wouldve been kept in his jacket throughout the evening, except
when making payments. He told us he had three other cards for accounts with other financial
businesses in his wallet. He also said that he wouldve most likely kept his phone on his
person that evening.
I also asked about the apparent interaction Mr S had with strangers at the ATM which had
been mentioned in passing in his letter of complaint. Mr S said he had hoped that the police
investigation would be able to shed light on what happened at the ATM, but the police didnt
investigate.
I also asked him if he could provide evidence that would place him geographically in a
different location to that where the disputed payments were made. He said this should be
possible because he took a taxi to work that morning and hed provide evidence of card
activity in the area of London he worked in. Unfortunately, he didnt provide anything up until 
the point I issued my provisional decision. He has since provided a screenshot of the taxi 
app on his phone showing a taxi journey to work on the morning that this activity was taking 
place. 
I issued my provisional findings on this case on 14 December and said:
In this case, the relevant regulations are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). These say that a payment transaction is regarded as authorised by the 
payer only if the payer has given consent to the execution of the payment 
transaction.
If a payment transaction was not authorised, then the payment service provider must 
refund the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer and, where applicable, 
restore the debited payment account to the state it would have been in had the 
unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
The regulations also say that the payer will be liable for losses in respect of 
unauthorised transaction where the payer has with intent or gross negligence failed 
to comply with their obligations in relation to any payment instrument or personalised 
security credentials. This includes using the payment instrument in accordance with 
the terms and conditions governing its issue and use; notifying the payment service 
provider following the loss of the card; and taking reasonable steps to keep any 
personalised security credentials safe.
Mr S says that he didnt authorise these payments. And while I dont doubt or 
disbelieve him, the evidence on the circumstances surrounding the payments is 
unclear. I cant know with complete certainty what happened. And in the light of such 
uncertainty, I must reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is, does the available evidence (including Mr Ss own recollections) show that its more 
likely than not that Mr S authorised the activity on his card?
Lloyds has provided technical evidence showing that each of the payments was 
properly authenticated  i.e. that the chip on the card was read and the correct PIN 
was entered. Of course, that doesnt show that Mr S authorised the payments. I dont 
agree with the investigator that there was no point at which Mr Ss PIN might have 
been compromised. It was quite possible for someone to have observed him entering 
his PIN either in the pub or at the ATM just before he got the taxi home.
However, its still not clear how a fraudster couldve removed two cards from his 
wallet without him noticing if it was kept in his jacket pocket throughout the evening. I 
dont think its likely that a fraudster would choose to take only two cards when Mr S 
says there were five cards in his wallet. Its not uncommon for someone to use the 
same PIN across multiple payment cards and so Id have expected an opportunistic 
fraudster to attempt to make payments or withdraw cash on all five if the opportunity 
presented itself. In addition, if someone had stolen Mr Ss wallet during the evening 
then attempting to place it back inside his jacket meant theyd unnecessarily be 
taking the risk of being detected. For the same reason, theres no credible 
explanation as to how a fraudster could remove the SIM card from Mr Ss phone 
without him noticing (assuming the phone was on his person throughout
the evening) or indeed why they would do so.
Its also noteworthy that there was a long delay between uses of the card  if Mr Ss 
card had fallen into the hands of an opportunistic fraudster, Id have expected them 
to try to obtain maximum benefit in the shortest possible time knowing that, once the 
cardholder notifies their bank that the card is missing, the stolen cards would no 
longer be of use.
A great deal of the spending on this card took place in high street betting shops. I 
asked the investigator to contact one of those businesses which confirmed that, as a 
matter of company policy, if a customer places a bet using a bank card the any 
winnings will be loaded back onto the card that placed the bet and that no winnings 
would be paid out as cash. In view of that, its not clear why a fraudster would use a 
stolen card to place bets, rather than to buy high-value goods.
Finally, Mr S has told us that these transactions took place in an area of London that 
hes never visited and that he was in an entirely different location. Hes shared with 
us a work email he sent to a colleague asking for his number to be swapped onto a 
new SIM  but theres no reason to assume that he couldnt have sent an email like 
that remotely. I also asked him whether there was anything else he could show us to 
demonstrate that hed travelled to the office the following day  evidence of fares, 
card payments in the local area and so on, but Mr S hasnt provided these.
As I explained above, I cant know with certainty what happened here and must 
decide this case on the balance of probabilities. And from everything Ive seen so far, 
the weight of the evidence supports the conclusion that its fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to hold him liable for these transactions.
Mr S disagreed with these findings. He reiterated that he hadnt authorised any of these 
transactions. He said that Lloyds shouldve regarded this sudden increase in account activity 
as suspicious and intervened or blocked the payments and argued that text message 
authentication isnt sufficiently secure.
He sent a screenshot taken from the taxi app showing that a journey was taken from his home to his workplace. This showed that he wasnt in the same geographic location as the 
card. Mr S also referred to a news article in which someone lost money to fraud in broadly 
similar circumstances. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr S 
liable for these transactions. To reiterate, I have to decide this case on the balance of 
probabilities  so I must consider whether the evidence shows its more likely than not that 
Mr S didnt authorise these payments.
And while he has now been able to provide evidence to show where he was at the time, 
there are other factors that persuade me that, on balance, these transactions werent 
unauthorised or werent carried out without Mr Ss knowledge.  I say that because:
I find it unlikely that a fraudster would take specific cards from his wallet (rather than 
just taking the whole wallet) because the risk of being detected would be so much 
greater. 
I find it unlikely that a fraudster would choose specific cards from his wallet. I 
understand there were five cards in there, but only two were taken. From the cases 
weve seen, Id expect a fraudster to maximise their potential gains from the fraud 
and attempt to use all of the cards if possible  particularly given that its common for 
people to use the same PIN across multiple cards.
For similar reasons, I find it unlikely a fraudster could remove the SIM card from the 
phone and leave it in his possession without his noticing and unlikely that theyd want 
to do so, given the risk of detection.
If the card was taken in the bar or at the ATM near the bar, I find it surprising that 
there was so little urgency in its use and significant spending didnt occur for many 
hours. From the cases weve seen, a fraudster will typically look to maximise the use 
of a stolen card in the knowledge that the card can blocked at any time.
In my provisional findings, I referred to the fact that many of these transactions were 
made at high street betting shops. As a matter of policy, one of those shops insists 
that any winnings on a bet placed using a card could only be repaid onto the same 
card that had placed the bet. There would therefore by no real value to a fraudster in 
placing bets using a stolen card. Mr S has pointed out that perhaps individual betting 
shops dont follow this policy or find ways around the rules to allow for cash winnings 
to be paid out. And while I agree that cant be ruled out, Im mindful of the fact that its 
still an ineffective way for a fraudster to take advantage of a stolen card given the 
inherent uncertainty of gambling and the fact that theyd have had other opportunities 
to use the card to (for example) buy high value goods for resale. 
Mr S has made a number of comments about whether Lloyds systems are sufficiently secure 
and whether it was appropriate for it to use a text message to verify that he was behind 
some of the earlier transactions. Hes also said that that this was sudden change in the use 
of account and so it shouldve intervened to question the payments or block the card. But 
because Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr S authorised these transactions, I 
dont think any intervention on its part wouldve made a difference here.I read the news article that Mr S shared. Each complaint that is referred to this service is 
considered on its own merits. Nonetheless, there are clear distinguishing facts  not least 
the unlikely act of stealing a SIM card, rather than a phone. I know how strongly Mr S feels 
about his case and I realise this will be a hugely disappointing outcome. I cannot know for 
certain what happened here, and I have to be guided by the available evidence. Regrettably, 
I find that the weight of that evidence doesnt demonstrate that these payments were 
unauthorised.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman