DRN-1695998
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G complained about two policies theyd been sold by Cumberland; the first in 
2004 and the second in 2006. In both cases, the policies covered Mr G only in the event he 
wasnt working due to accident, sickness and unemployment.
Cumberland upheld the complaint about the 2004 policy in full, so this service hasnt 
considered any complaint about this policy. But it said it would only partially uphold the 
complaint about the 2006 sale. It acknowledged that Mr and Mrs G didnt need a policy in 
2006 but it said it would only refund the premiums from the date of sale until July 2009 
because it thought the policy was suitable and appropriate for them after this time.
Our adjudicator upheld in full the complaint about the 2006 sale. She explained that if the 
policy hadnt been sold in 2006, and all parties agree it shouldnt have been, then it wouldnt 
have been in place in 2009. And it wasnt right for Cumberland to reject the complaint from 
this date onwards.
Cumberland disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint comes to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Having done so I have to tell Cumberland that I think the 
adjudicator reached the right outcome here. And I think she set out the position very clearly 
in both her views, so theres very little I can usefully add to whats already been said.
I understand why Cumberland thinks the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G after 2009; 
Mr G was self-employed again and wouldve had no employee sick pay and Mrs G was no 
longer in paid employment  so it may have been appropriate for Mr and Mrs G to have 
some kind of PPI cover. But Cumberland didnt sell them a new policy at this time, the 
existing policy simply continued  their cover didnt change.
Cumberland has already agreed that the policy it sold Mr and Mrs G in 2006 was mis-sold, 
and it came to this conclusion without the involvement of this Service. It told Mr and Mrs G, 
as you would have been able to rely upon each others income in 2006, it appears it was not 
appropriate for you to take out the policy. On the basis that it shouldnt have sold Mr and 
Mrs G a policy in 2006, this policy simply wouldnt have been in place in 2009. And because 
of this Cumberland needs to refund all PPI premiums relating to this policy.Putting things right
Cumberland Building Society should put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI in 2006. Cumberland Building Society should:
 
         Pay Mr and Mrs G the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
         Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
         If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Cumberland Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cumberland Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Cumberland Building Society must give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Cumberland Building Society to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs G as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman