DRN-3358560
The complaint
Mr K complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited didnt act on his instructions to 
transfer his investments to a third-party provider. He wants an apology and compensation for 
the poor service he received and the disregard for his wishes.
Interactive Investor Services Limited (ii) acquired The Share Centre Limited (TSC) and is 
now responsible for this complaint. But the matters Mr K complains about took place when 
his account was with TSC, so I will refer to the business as TSC throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr K had a share dealing account with TSC. In September 2020, TSC wrote to Mr K to tell 
him that TSC was combining with ii and that it needed his agreement to move his account to 
ii, or to opt out. Mr K says he was aware he needed to reply by 16 November 2020, but that 
he didnt make a decision until December. He phoned TSC on 21 December to tell it he 
wanted to transfer his investments to a third-party provider. He completed and posted the 
necessary forms. He complains that TSC went ahead with the transfer of his account to ii 
without his agreement.
TSC said it didnt receive Mr Ks opt out form until 7 January. And that it didnt receive the 
transfer request from the new provider until 11 January. It said it was too late to stop the 
migration of Mr Ks account to ii.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think TSC 
had acted unreasonably in rejecting Mr Ks transfer instructions as theyd been received too 
late.
Mr K didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
During his phone call on 21 December, he was told there was a deadline of 
31 December for the receipt of the transfer instructions from the third-party provider; but 
no deadline was given for the receipt of the opt out form. He sent this by first class post 
on 21 December and its likely TSC received it before Christmas.
The form he completed made it clear he did not consent to his account being transferred 
to ii. He also made this clear during three separate phone calls and in his email at the 
end of January 2021. This was in response to TSCs email which asked for his 
agreement to transfer his account; and he replied by its deadline of 3 February 
confirming he did not agree.
He received very poor service from TSC. It didnt return his calls as promised and it 
ignored his 29 January email.
He didnt receive TSCs email supposedly sent before Christmas.
The deadline dates seemed to be moveable feasts. He didnt receive written notification 
of 31 December deadline until it had passed. And he wasnt given a firm migration date 
until 28 January.
He transferred his account from ii to his new provider. But this took 11 weeks. If TSC had 
received his transfer instructions by 31 December, it wouldnt have been able to 
complete the transfer by the time it migrated accounts to ii.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
TSC initially asked for the opt out/consent form to be returned to it by 16 November 2020. 
Mr K told us he was fully aware of this deadline date but hadnt decided what he wanted to 
do. I appreciate he wanted to take financial advice before making a decision. But I find the 
cut-off date gave Mr K a reasonable period of time  around two months  to decide what to 
do.
TSC sent a second letter in November 2020. This chased for Mr Ks response and said that 
We may need to go ahead and move you to the ii platform. It provided details of various 
cut-off dates to ensure the smooth transition to ii. The latest date for withdrawing 
investments was 31 December 2020. Mr K says he didnt receive this letter. But, Im satisfied 
from TSCs records that it was sent and that it was correctly addressed. So I find TSC acted 
reasonably in making Mr K aware that he needed to provide his transfer out instructions by 
31 December 2020, otherwise his account would most likely move to ii.
When Mr K phoned TSC on 21 December, I find he was made aware that the transfer 
instructions needed to be received by 31 December. I appreciate Mr K feels he wasnt given 
a deadline date for the opt out/consent form. But Im satisfied TSC made it clear that this 
form was simply to tell it his intentions, and that any transfer couldnt take place until after 
migration to ii, unless the transfer instructions were received by 31 December 2020.
Mr K completed and sent the opt out/consent form on 21 December. He says this was sent 
by first class post. TSC says it didnt receive it until 7 January 2021. Im satisfied TSC didnt 
receive the form before this date and its likely it was delayed because of the time of year, 
coupled with well-publicised postal delays caused by the pandemic. In any event, even it this 
had been received before 31 December, Im not persuaded it would have made any 
difference to the overall outcome here. TSC made it clear it needed to receive the transfer 
request from the new provider by 31 December.
I find the transfer request from the new provider wasnt received by TSC until 11 January 
2021. 
TSC was moving its entire client base to ii. Its reasonable to expect that it would set various 
deadline dates to ensure a smooth transition. The initial response deadline of 16 November 
2020 was to seek Mr Ks consent to transfer his investments to ii, or to seek his alternative 
instructions. Having not heard from Mr K, I find it was reasonable that TSC contacted him 
again with a firm date by which it needed his transfer instructions. I dont find that the 
deadline dates moved as Mr K suggested. And Ive already found that TSC communicated 
the 31 December transfer deadline, although its unfortunate Mr K didnt receive this letter.
It seems to me that the opt-out/consent form was useful for TSC to understand, at an early 
stage in the migration process, the number of clients who would be transferring to ii. By December, the form Mr K was still asked to complete, was not really of any use to either 
party. I say that because the only way to stop his account being migrated to ii was for the 
transfer request to be received by 31 December 2020. Ive already found Mr K was made 
aware of this. I accept, however, that even by this late date, it was preferable for TSC to 
have consent for the move to ii where possible.
Mr K thought that by replying to TSCs email dated 28 January 2021, he could still stop his 
account transferring to ii. This email was sent to all clients who hadnt consented to the move 
to ii, but whose sale or transfer of investments hadnt taken place. It wasnt specific to Mr Ks 
circumstances, so I understand why it may have confused him and why he may have 
thought he could still stop the transfer to ii. But in his case, TSC had not received his transfer 
instructions by the cut off date, and the email told him that Your money and investments will 
move over the weekend of 6 and 7 February. I find it was too late at this stage for Mr Ks 
account not to migrate.
Im pleased Mr K was still able to transfer his investments to a new provider once the 
migration took place, at no cost.
Mr K says the eventual transfer took 11 weeks. So, even if TSC had received the transfer 
request by 31 December, he says it wouldnt have been able to transfer by 6 and 
7 February. I dont know what TSCs procedures were for clients whose investments were in 
the course of transfer when the migration took place. But I dont need this information to 
decide this complaint as I dont need to decide what might have happened in circumstances 
which didnt arise. Overall, Im satisfied that the deadline date of 31 December 2020 wasnt 
unreasonable in the circumstances, and I cant comment on how long the transfer would 
have taken if TSC had received Mr Ks transfer instructions by that date.
I appreciate this has been frustrating for Mr K, particularly as he says TSC did not return his 
calls as promised. But, overall, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find TSC has 
treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman