DRN-1972431
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here 
was around five and a half years old and had completed about 49,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect a fault that resulted in multiple warning 
messages being displayed and the loss of power steering, to occur so soon after supply.
As Mr C demonstrated there was a fault on this car within his first six months of ownership 
the relevant legislation would suggest it is for BMF to show it wasnt there from the 
beginning. I dont believe they have demonstrated this. 
And I think, given the relatively short time before the fault showed itself that its more likely 
than not that it was developing at the point of supply.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business one chance to put things 
right. The garage Mr C took the car to explained in an email to BMF that:
the vehicle was brought to us in late July for EML (Engine Management Light) due to BCM 
(Body Control Module) faults, which was cleared at the time. The vehicle came back in on 
Thursday 10 October with an EML but this time the diagnostic machine cannot communicate 
with modules.
So, its clear that the garages attempt to fix the EML problem failed in July. The subsequent 
problem in October appears, in their words, to also potentially be related to the Body Control 
Module. I think that suggests it was likely to be the same fault. The manufacturers 
franchised dealership subsequently found a fault with the wiring and Im persuaded that its 
most likely that was the cause of the problem and that its likely the garage Mr C took his car 
to in July failed to remedy that fault.
In those circumstances as the business has failed to repair a fault that was most likely 
present at the point of supply they should now allow Mr C to reject the car. 
Putting things right
The business should collect the car and end the finance agreement. Mr C has explained that 
hes not driven the car since it failed in October and hes not been paying his finance 
instalments since then either. In those circumstances I think it would be fair for BMF to 
terminate the contract with nothing more to pay.
I think Mr C did have reasonable use of the car in the period in which he was paying but 
there was some loss of use when he had to return the car to the garage, and I would agree 
with the investigator that BMF should refund £150 in respect of this.
BMF should also refund Mr Cs deposit and, as hes been deprived of that money whilst hes 
been funding a car of unsatisfactory quality, they should pay interest on that refund.
Mr C has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to refer his complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and hes had to return the car to 
the garage and arrange diagnostics. In those circumstances BMF should provide some: I 
think £150 is sufficient.
Mr C had to pay for a diagnostic at the franchised dealership and this should also be 
refunded by BMF. The diagnostic would not have been necessary had they accepted Mr Cs 
position.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
refund Mr Cs deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;pay Mr C £150 in respect of the loss of use he had from the car;
refund the diagnostic cost of £167.11;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies in 
respect of this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman