DRN-3047067
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs M-E are unhappy with the increases in premiums they are being charged for 
their building insurance policies with Aviva Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr E and Mrs M-E say they have had three properties insured with Aviva for over ten years. 
They say every year the premiums increase. When contacting the company to dispute this, 
Aviva reduces premiums on two of the policies but make excuses for why the premium on 
the third cant be reduced.
Mr E and Mrs M-E say this year the premiums increased again so they complained to Aviva. 
They asked for a quote assuming they were new customers to see the comparison. The 
quote was higher than the premium they were being asked to pay, despite the 10% loyalty 
discount they received. Mr E and Mrs M-E dont think this can be accurate and dont think 
the explanations given for premiums increasing each year are satisfactory. 
Aviva says the premiums it quoted to Mr E and Mrs M-E are the lowest it can offer for the 
cover they require. It explains their quote is lower than the premium a new customer would 
pay, and it cannot apply a further discount.
Aviva says its premiums are calculated using many different rating factors. Some are 
specific to the customer and some relate to the wider world and insurance market. It says 
the specifics of its pricing strategy are business sensitive, and so precise detail of how this 
works cannot be divulged.  
Mr E and Mrs M-E werent happy with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Aviva hadnt treated them 
unfairly. She decided Aviva hadnt taken advantage of a lack of engagement - whereby 
premiums are increased because the customer doesnt engage with the cost. This is 
because Mr E and Mrs M-E had engaged each year and benefitted from discounts. 
The investigator was satisfied Aviva had given fair reasons for how it calculated the 
premiums. Mr E and Mrs M-E disagreed. They werent satisfied, without seeing how the 
premiums had been calculated, that the pricing criteria was fair. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr E and Mrs M-Es complaint. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment to them, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I should first highlight that I cant tell an insurer how to price risk or say what an insurance 
policy shouldve cost. In effect Id be telling a business how it should operate and thats not 
my role.
But I can look at whether Aviva has treated Mr E and Mrs M-E fairly throughout the period 
they held its insurance policies.
Aviva has sent information that shows two of the policies date back to 2012 and the other to 
2016. I understand Mr E and Mrs M-E say they have held policies for over ten years. But I 
havent seen information that shows this to be the case. The company says in 2012 the 
premiums were £87 and £96. For the remaining policy the premium was £45. In 2021 the 
premiums were £118.96, £106.87 and £76.61 respectively. This means the approximate 
annual increases over this period were 3.5%, 1% and 11.5%.
Aviva has supplied detailed information showing the factors and risk ratings it used to 
calculate Mr E and Mrs M-Es premiums. I have considered this information carefully. Im 
satisfied from this that Avivas calculations have followed its underwriting criteria correctly. 
However, this is confidential, business sensitive information, which unfortunately means I 
cant share it. But I havent found anything in this that shows Aviva acted unfairly.  
A point I must consider is whether Mr E and Mrs M-E are inert customers. This is where a 
customer hasnt engaged with their provider - year after year. So, theyve kept on paying the 
renewal price without getting in touch with their insurer or shopping around. We describe 
these customers as inert and think that at some point the business should become aware of 
this and not increase the price solely because of the customers inertia. 
In this case its clear from what Aviva and Mr E and Mrs M-E say that they made regular 
contact over the years and discounts were provided. Im satisfied they shouldnt be 
considered inert customers given their level of engagement and the premium discounts 
they managed to secure. 
I have thought about Mr E and Mrs M-Es comments that premiums have increased every 
year since they agreed the policies. 
Firstly, its normal for the cost of insurance to go up. Insurers often give new customers a 
discount and then increase the price over the next few years to recoup that initial discount. I 
dont think thats unreasonable. Similarly, insurers regularly update their risk ratings based 
on a wide range of factors, not necessarily related to an individuals claims history, although 
this is also a factor, meaning prices will often change at renewal. 
As above, Im satisfied Aviva has shown it calculated the premiums in line with its 
underwriting criteria. 
Mr E and Mrs M-E were able to negotiate discounts each year. And from what I have seen 
the discounts applied over the years have meant the latest quote Aviva offered left no room 
within its pricing structure to allow further discounts. As it stands the quotes offered are 
somewhat lower than new Aviva customers would pay for the same insurance cover. 
In considering all of this I dont think it has been shown that Aviva treated Mr E and Mrs M-E 
unfairly when calculating premiums over the years or that it has taken advantage of a lack of 
engagement. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs M-E to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman