DRN-1496934
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way his account and overdraft facility has been handled.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Bank of Scotland accepts it shouldve defaulted Mr Hs account sooner and closed it 
in December 2018. Mr H says this prolonged things and caused him a year of stress. 
But as the investigator says this delay has benefited Mr H as he has been able to 
repay what was owed before the default was entered.  And even if a default had 
been entered earlier the amount owing wouldve still had to have been repaid.
Mr H also says he brought his account into credit and wanted it closed. The account 
statements show it was in credit in May 2019 but Mr H then withdrew money on 
numerous occasions and it became overdrawn again. As theres nothing to suggest 
he asked for the overdraft to be removed from the account it was reasonable for 
Bank of Scotland to let him use the overdraft.
If Mr H now wants the overdraft removed or the account closed, he should make a 
formal request for this to Bank of Scotland.
I accept Bank of Scotlands actions have caused Mr H some additional distress and 
inconvenience over and above what he wouldve experienced anyway. This warrants 
a payment of some compensation. Bank of Scotland has already paid Mr H £150 
compensation for this. Taking everything into account, including the level of awards 
we make, I think this is fair. And although I recognise Mr Hs frustration and strength 
of feeling, I dont think I can reasonably ask it to pay him any more as hed like.
 
For these reasons I think Bank of Scotland has dealt with Mr H and this complaint fairly. And 
I do not uphold this complaint.
My Final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman