DRN-4209357
The complaint
J complains that ClearBank Limited have not refunded £4,250 that they lost as part of a 
scam.   
What happened
J, a limited company, contacted a third-party company to purchase plant machinery. They 
communicated via text and received videos of the machinery they intended to buy. They 
agreed to pay a 50% deposit prior to viewing the machinery with the agreement they could 
receive a full refund, minus delivery costs, if they were not satisfied. They received an 
invoice for the payment and paid 50%, totalling £4,250, on 18 December 2022.
They went to the address the following day to inspect the machinery, and found an unrelated 
company who confirmed there had been three separate incidents of people coming to collect 
machinery as part of the same scam. It was at this point they realised they too had been 
victims of the scam and they contacted ClearBank later that evening to raise a dispute.
ClearBank contacted the beneficiary bank to try and recover Js funds. Unfortunately, they 
found that none of the funds remained so nothing could be recovered on Js behalf. As there 
had been no opportunity for ClearBank to intervene with the payment prior to it debiting Js 
account, they did not agree they had made an error in the circumstances. But they did think 
they should have provided the outcome for Js claim sooner, so offered them £75 
compensation.
J referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. Having done so, 
they felt that the payment itself was not unusual or out of character for J, so they did not 
think ClearBank should have intervened prior to it leaving the account. And they therefore 
did not agree that ClearBank missed an opportunity to prevent the scam. They also noted 
that by the time J reported the scam to ClearBank, the funds had already left the beneficiary 
account, so none could be recovered. Because of this, they did not think ClearBank could 
have done more to stop the scam or recover the funds.
J responded and said that they were not responsible as they were not aware that the 
fraudsters were out to scam them and they genuinely believed they were involved in a 
legitimate sale for plant machinery.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I dont think 
ClearBank missed an opportunity to reveal the scam and I dont think it could reasonably 
have recovered the funds, so I dont require it to refund the £4,250. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that J authorised the payment of £4,250 as it believed it was part of a 
legitimate sale.  So, while I recognise that J didnt intend the money to go to scammers, the 
starting position in law is that ClearBank was obliged to follow Js instruction and process the 
payment. Because of this, J is not automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether ClearBank did 
enough to try to keep Js account safe.
Ive considered the payment itself in comparison to Js normal account activity. Having done 
so, it wasnt particularly unusual or out of character. J had made other payments of relatively 
similar amounts in the months prior, and I dont think its value was so high that this on its 
own should have flagged as suspicious. In addition, the payment was only a portion of Js 
account balance, and this was a singular payment that wasnt part of a series. So, 
considering the value and the type of payment involved, I dont think ClearBank should have 
flagged it as suspicious, and I dont think they therefore missed an opportunity to discover 
the scam.
ClearBank have accepted that they did not request a return of the funds as quickly as they 
should have done. However, they have provided evidence that the funds were withdrawn 
from the beneficiary bank account on the same day the transfer was made, 18 December 
2022. J raised the dispute about the funds on 19 December 2022, meaning that even if 
ClearBank had acted promptly to request a return of the funds, none would have remained. 
Ive gone on to consider the fact that ClearBank could have provided J with a response to 
the claim sooner and this was an error in communication on their end. On balance, I think 
the £75 compensation they have offered is fair in the circumstances when considering this 
delay.
I appreciate Js comments that it was unaware that this was a scam and it thought this was a 
legitimate purchase. I want to make it clear that I do not doubt this and that this complaint is 
set up against ClearBank, so within it I have considered the actions of ClearBank in relation 
to the payment. Having done so, I cannot agree that they missed an opportunity to uncover 
the scam or recover the funds once they were aware of it. For these reasons, I dont agree 
that they made an error in the circumstances so I do not uphold this part of the complaint.  My final decision
I do not uphold Js complaint against ClearBank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman