DRN-3020936
The complaint
Mr H complained that Indigo Michael Limited, trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC), lent to him
irresponsibly.
Mr H later complained that a payment removed from his account in September 2018 was 
done without his permission and he says was an unauthorised payment to SNC. It left him in 
a dire financial predicament. He feels he ought to receive compensation for that incident.
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit facility with SNC around June 2016 and it was approved later in the
year around October 2016. He used the facility up until March 2017 and after May 2017 no
further interest was added to the account. Account notes show that forbearance was given to
Mr H for many months after that.
When Mr H complained in July 2020 his complaint was upheld and SNCs final response
letter dated 5 August 2020 was a full uphold. It will mean that Mr H will be left with a
relatively small outstanding principal sum to repay. This part of the complaint seems to be
satisfactory to both parties and essentially appears to be resolved.
The additional part of the complaint relates the time well before Mr H made a complaint to
SNC, and is about the outstanding balance which remained static and on his account for
many months until September 2018.
Mr H says that SNC took around £544 from his account without permission, left him
financially in a terrible situation and showed no sympathy when he called about it.
It seems that Mr H approached his bank to set in motion a formal chargeback process and
that led to monies being credited back to him in November 2018. The consequence was that
the SNC account was back to being in debit again.
There followed what appears to have been a series of months with contact by SNC and its
agent about the arrears. In July 2020 Mr H started the complaint. SNC responded in the way 
I described above with its FRL on 5 August 2020. One of our adjudicators first view was to 
endorse the full uphold on the irresponsible lending part of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H was not content as he wished for the other part of his complaint (relating to the 
chargeback) to be assessed and reviewed.
One of our adjudicators obtained a lot of information and explanations from both parties to 
help him reach a view. He thought that SNC
ought to have realised that Mr H was still in financial difficulties in September 2018 
and therefore ought not taken the payment; and
it was likely that Mr H did telephone SNC to explain and ask for the refund of that 
money just after it had been debited from his account; and
by taking the £544 out of Mr Hs account in September 2018 SNC did not act fairly;
he thought that a distress and inconvenience payment of £200 ought to be paid by 
SNC to Mr H.
Mr H agreed to this. SNC did not agree and it said:
SNC usually charges interest up to 40 days for all customers and it was no different 
for Mr H. After May 2017 no additional interest was added. The non-addition of 
interest was in line with its terms and conditions. SNC says This is not reasonable 
grounds to assume [Mr H] was experiencing financial difficulties.
it had applied the forbearance flag to Mr Hs SNC account and that had been in 
place from 9th April 2017 until 16th August 2018
it has sent us account notes to show the chronology of events including 
correspondence with Mr H in 2017 and 2018; and
on 4th September 2018 an email was sent to Mr Hs personal email address 
informing Mr H SNC was going to attempt a repayment on 7 September 2018 and 
so Mr H had three days warning. This was in line with its terms and conditions.
it has no record of Mr Hs alleged call to SNC after the payment was taken.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2021 and that is set out here. 
My provisional decision. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Irresponsible lending
In relation to the irresponsible lending part of Mr Hs complaint, there is nothing for me to say on that 
part as it appears to have been resolved. I do recommend that the redress calculations are re-done 
so that the accurate outstanding balance can be presented to Mr H. I say this because the FRL 
conceding on the irresponsible lending part of the complaint was a year ago, so the figures in that 
FRL are out of date.
As this was offered before Mr H brought his complaint to this Service then I will classify that as a non-
uphold for the purposes of this provisional decision, but I would expect SNC to honour that outcome it 
made in its FRL in August 2020.
September 2018 debit
On the part of the complaint relating to the £544 in September 2018, I take a different view to that of 
our adjudicator. I do not think that SNC acted outside its terms and conditions.
SNC was reviewing the account after 16 months of it remaining static, and almost two years after the 
credit facility was approved for Mr H. SNCs account notes show correspondence to suggest that it 
was planning to drop the forbearance flag on the account and had emailed Mr H about this on 
8 June 2018. The account note says 
Bulk Email Sent- DMP Forbearance ending. Customer has one month to contact us before flag is 
removed.
More than two months later, on 16 August 2018 SNCs notes indicate:
DMP Forbearance flag dropped- customer had over 30 days to get in touch with DMP details and has 
not been in contact. Flag dropped and emails sent
On 4 September 2018 SNC sent another email to Mr H to say that it would attempt to take payment in 
three days time. Ive been given the wording of that email and it seems reasonable and gave Mr H 
time to contact SNC in advance if he needed to.After the payment was removed from Mr Hs bank account on 7 September 2018, SNC says
[Mr H] never contacted us when the repayment was taken, if he had done we would of [sic] refunded 
the payment to him instantly. The only reason it was refunded two months later was because [Mr H] 
charged back with his bank.
Mr H has explained things differently. He says he called SNC twice on 7 September 2018 but was told 
that SNC could not refund the money as it was the amount he owed to it. Mr Hs view was that the 
person he spoke to was rude and had no compassion.
It may be puzzling as to why the telephone calls Mr H says he made on 7 September 2018 are not 
recorded in SNCs account notes, as an earlier call from 2017 was noted and many other details with 
the SNC account were recorded over the years. So, there is some doubt here, and without call 
recordings or additional evidence from the parties then I cannot make a finding as to whether those 
calls were made or not.
So, I have used the other details I have from the SNC account notes to build a picture of how this 
matter was dealt with at the time.
SNCs account note for 22 October 2018 shows
Chargeback activity with ref: 0036SPGD, relating to repayment of £544.40 taken on 07/09/2018. 
Chargeback flag set to block deposits, contested and awaiting response from bank.
SNCs account note for 1 November 2018 shows Chargeback lost, refund of £544.40 actioned to 
increase balance to the correct amount
After that, Mr Hs SNC account was in debit again and considered to be in arrears and so more 
communications from SNC and its third party collections agent appear to have been sent to him. It 
appears that Mr H has not repaid the debt to SNC which he took originally in October 2016 - almost 
five years ago.
This was an unfortunate series of events in or around autumn 2018 but ultimately I dont think that 
SNC did anything wrong. It appears that SNC afforded Mr H many months to deal with debt situation 
he was in, and the SNC account notes refer to him having assistance from a charity to assist with debt 
issues. He was given space and a forbearance flag was attached to the account. Mr H was written to 
in June 2018 to say that the account was being reviewed and so I think its likely Mr H knew that the 
debt was still due to be repaid. I think that Mr H had fair warning leading up to, and on, 
4 September 2018. The payment was taken on 7 September 2018.
I have made no findings on whether a telephone call was made by Mr H to SNC on 
7 September 2018 or whether, if it was made, the SNC representative was unhelpful or incorrect in 
what he or she said as I have no evidence of that. There is doubt about this part and I cannot resolve 
it on current evidence.
The account notes seem to accurately record what both parties have explained surrounding the 
chargeback claim made by Mr H to his bank. And so, I have no reason to doubt the veracity of the 
notes I have read. And that indicates to me that SNC acted correctly. So, on this part of Mr Hs 
complaint my provisional decision is that I do not uphold it and I do not make any award to 
compensate him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have had no response from either party. And so, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. For clarity I repeat here what I said in relation to the irresponsible lending part of the 
complaint. On that part as it appears to have been resolved. 
I do recommend that the redress calculations are re-done so that the accurate outstanding 
balance can be presented to Mr H. I say this because the FRL conceding on the 
irresponsible lending part of the complaint was a year ago, so the figures in that FRL are out 
of date.
As this was offered before Mr H brought his complaint to this Service then I will classify that
as a non-uphold for the purposes of this provisional decision, but I would expect SNC to 
honour that outcome it made in its FRL in August 2020.
So, for the same reasons as explained in my provisional decision, which has been 
duplicated here and forms part of this final decision, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman