DRN-4116887
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK plc complains (Santander) have recorded information on his 
credit file following a late payment.
What happened
Mr M was due to make a minimum payment on this credit card account on 14 December 
2022. The payment was made on 19 December 2022 after Mr M received an email notifying 
the payment hadnt been received. Everyone accepts the payment was 5 days late as a 
result of a genuine oversight on Mr Ms part.
Mr M is unhappy that Santander reported a late or missed payment for this month to his 
credit file. Hes concerned that this will remain on his credit file for six years when the 
payment was only five days late and he has a history of never missing a monthly payment.
In its final response to Mr Ms complaint Santander said the information reported to the credit 
agencies for December 2022 is accurate as the payment was late. And Santander said it 
could only amend a credit file if it had made an error which they hadnt here. As a goodwill 
gesture Santander refunded the late payment fee and the latest purchase interest charge to 
Mr M. They suggested he filed a notice of correction on his credit file to explain the position 
instead.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although she thought Santander had acted 
reasonably when refunding the late fee and the interest charge, she didnt think it was fair 
that the credit file showed the December 2022 payment as a month late. She recommended 
Santander contact the credit reference agencies to remove the December 2022 late 
payment marker as Mr M had made the payment within the same month and the account 
isnt in arrears.
Mr M accepted the decision but Santander didnt and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Santander have referred me to the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements 
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies issued by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO)
In asking for a final decision Santander said the information on the customers file is accurate 
and factual and should not be removed from it. They also say they are obliged to provide the 
credit reference agencies with factual information about how customers conduct their 
accounts. I dont disagree with this but I think it has to be read alongside the first principle of 
the ICOs guidance which is Data that is reported on your credit file must be fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date. 
Ive looked at extracts form Mr Ms credit file for this account for a number of years and cant 
see any missed or late payments. Santanders own submissions - sent after our 
investigators view - state We can see that Mr M has habitually paid his faster payment for 
the credit card on or around 28th of each month from April 2022 to October 2022, this is well 
in advance of the required date each month. It seems he overlooked this at the end of 
November 2022 and ended up forgetting to ensure it was paid in time for Dec 14 December 
due date. Whilst we understand this is likely a genuine error, we are obligated to record 
factual information. Against this background - whilst I agree the information Santander 
recorded with the credit reference agencies is accurate - it doesnt seem, to me, to be fair or 
consistent as required by Principle 1. 
Santander have drawn my attention to Principle 2 which states If you do not make your 
regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed amount according to 
your terms and conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs as being in arrears.   
Whilst I agree there are requirements to supply accurate data, I think theres also an element 
of discretion here. Principle 2 doesnt mandate the reporting of arrears rather that it may be 
reported as being in arrears. 
Taking into account the past payment history, Mr Ms prompt payment when he realised the 
December 2022 one was late, his continued timely payments and Santanders acceptance 
this is likely to have been a genuine oversight, it seems to me, the reporting of the factual 
situation as a late payment is at odds with the fair requirement to be fair in Principle 1. I also 
think doesnt sit well with the stated purpose under Principle 2. That being reporting arrears 
is to indicate at the earliest reasonable opportunity that a customer is showing signs of 
potential financial difficulty or inability to manage his/her finances.  Theres no further 
evidence here to suggest that financial difficulty or an inability to manage finances was a 
factor for Mr M.
So, overall, I think Santander need to take action.
Putting things right
Santander UK plc need to remove the late payment marker for December 2022 from Mr Ms 
credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must remove the late 
payment marker for December 2022 from Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman