DRN-2779543
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited offered him after 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms car was deemed to be a total loss after an incident, and he made a claim on his 
policy. Admiral offered Mr M the cars market value in settlement of his claim. It said this was 
£16,630, less the policy excess, but Mr M thought his car was worth £20,400. He said he 
couldnt replace his car with one similar with Admirals offer.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had assessed the cars pre-accident value correctly according to our approach. She thought 
it had offered Mr M the highest valuation provided by the motor trade guides we use. So she 
thought its settlement offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M replied that he thought there was a big difference between Admirals offer and the 
advertised prices for similar cars. So he thought Admirals offer was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. Mr Ms policy 
provides for the market value of his car in the case of its total loss. This is defined in the 
policy as: 
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed how she 
came to that conclusion. I can see that she checked the motor trade guides we use for cars 
of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and options as Mr Ms car at the date of 
its loss. The valuations she found confirmed those provided by Admiral. And she thought 
Admiral had paid Mr M the highest valuation provided by the trade guides rather than an 
average, which is our usual approach. 
Mr M referred to advice on our website about how we value second-hand cars. The section 
he quoted was about cars that were recently purchased. The advice was that where there 
was a big difference between what the purchaser paid and the valuation provided by the 
trade guides, then the guides could be wrong. In that case, other evidence should be 
considered to reach a fair valuation. 
From what I can see, Mr M bought his car for a similar amount to Admirals valuation. So I 
cant say that this shows that the guides are wrong. 
Mr M provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. But Admiral found 
similar cars with lower mileage advertised for similar prices to its valuation. In any case, we 
dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and 
arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
So I think Admirals valuation of Mr Ms car was made correctly according to our approach. 
And so I think its settlement offer was fair and reasonable, and I dont require it to increase 
this. I can see that Admiral added interest to the settlement it paid Mr M due to a slight delay 
in its making payment. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman