DRN-4489305
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the information provided by Wise Payments Limited (Wise) when a 
transfer he made into his account was delayed.
What happened
Mr N transferred funds from his bank account into his account with Wise. However, there 
were delays in crediting his account with the funds. Mr N complained about the information 
he was provided with by Wise while due diligence checks were undertaken on the 
transaction.
Wise thought it acted fairly and in line with the customer agreement. It said verification and 
due diligence checks on payments and transfers were essential. And it said it can take 
between two and ten working days to process payments.
Mr N didnt accept what Wise said and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Wise had explained the dates given 
were an estimate, but unfortunately the checks needed took longer than it initially estimated. 
He didnt think Wise was in breach of the terms and conditions.
Mr N doesnt agree with what our investigator said and maintains that his complaint is not 
about the checks carried out, but the information Wise gave during the process. As 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 November 2023 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
 
There is no dispute there were delays in the funds Mr N transferred from his bank account 
becoming available in his Wise account. Wise explained this was because of due diligence 
checks that were required on the transaction. Wise has said it can take between two and ten 
days for a payment to be credited. While I accept the money did become available within 
these time limits, I find the information provided to Mr N could have been clearer during the 
process.
Firstly, I think its important to explain that the information Wise chooses to provide on its 
website, in its online application, and the standard messages or emails it sends while 
carrying out its due diligence checks, are a business decision it is entitled to make. Its not 
something we as a service would look to interfere with. What I must consider are the 
individual circumstances of this case and whether Wise treated Mr N fairly and reasonably.
The online app indicated the transfer would be processed and the funds made available 
firstly on 27 August, and then later an email was sent stating funds should be available on 29 
August. However, the money didnt clear into the account until three days later.
I dont find its unreasonable for there to be a short delay while checks are completed on a 
transaction. But I find sending a further email stating the funds would be available on 29 
August, gave the impression Mr Ns money would be available sooner than it was. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied Wise treated Mr N fairly.
When things go wrong, what I must consider is the impact it had on the consumer. To put 
things right we expect Wise to ensure the consumer is put back in the position they would 
have been in. This means it must ensure Mr N hasnt lost out financially as a result of whats 
happened. And it should address any practical or emotional impact the error has had on him.
I appreciate the email gives the impression the processing of the payment would have been 
completed on a specific day, however when this didnt happen, Im satisfied the tracking 
system via the app, indicated that there was a delay in the processing of the transaction. 
Wise also let Mr N know it would email him once the transaction completed, which meant he 
didnt have to keep checking to see if it was done.
Mr N says that had he been told of the time limits for the transfer to be processed, he could 
have made alternative arrangements to pay his rent. But Mr N has also made it clear there 
hasnt been any financial impact here or further consequences as a result of the information 
he was given.
Mr N also explained that it would be better for the app to describe the transaction as a 
transfer in, rather than stating it was a transfer out of his Wise account. While I accept his 
point of view, I cant see this will have had any impact on Mr N, other than to cause some 
added annoyance.
While the information provided during the checking process could have been clearer, Im 
satisfied once the funds were made available the inconvenience and frustration would have 
been alleviated. I understand it would have been somewhat frustrating not to know when the 
funds would be in the account, but Im satisfied this was short lived. Unfortunately, using 
financial services wont always be hassle free and when things have gone wrong, it doesnt 
always follow that we would award compensation for it. Under the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Wise doesnt need to compensate Mr N, but I find it ought to have acknowledged 
the impact this will have had on him and issued an apology...
Mr N responded to my provisional decision and said he suffered some anxiousness and 
upset due to the experience which he feels was preventable. He would like Wise to pay £20 
compensation for this. He also said he spent a total of  £0.50 on phone calls to our service 
and would like to be compensated for these costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr N said and it doesnt change my decision. As I said in my 
provisional decision, using financial services wont always be hassle free, and neither is the 
process of making a complaint. I appreciate Mr N phoned our services, but I cant tell Wise 
to compensate him for any costs he incurred in doing so. 
All things considered, I find the anxiousness Mr N faced was short lived and the 
inconvenience he experienced minimal. Therefore, I wont ask Wise to compensate him.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint, and require Wise Payments 
Limited to issue Mr N a letter of apology.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman