DRN-2582845
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled their 
claim for subsidence on their home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have home insurance thats underwritten by RSA. In July 2015 they made a 
claim as they noticed cracks in their property.
RSA sent a loss adjuster to inspect the cracks. They concluded that the cracks were caused 
by subsidence due to a tree belonging to their neighbours. RSA wrote to the neighbour 
asking that the tree be removed and warning of another tree that was a possible future risk. 
However Mr and Mrs Cs neighbour didnt agree to have the tree removed. Instead they 
reduced it. 
After this RSA carried out monitoring to see if the property had stabilised. By 2017 it was 
satisfied that there had been no further movement so proceeded to repair the cracks.
Shortly after the repair work was completed, in 2018, Mr and Mrs C contacted RSA to say 
they had noticed new cracks. They said they thought their neighbours tree should be 
removed to stop the problem. RSA re-opened the claim and more monitoring was carried out 
which continued through 2019. 
After this, RSA concluded that there wasnt evidence to show that either of Mr and Mrs Cs 
neighbours trees were causing ongoing problems. In January 2020 it said it would move to 
repair work on the new cracks. Its contractor contacted Mr and Mrs C and arranged an 
appointment in April 2020. Unfortunately, this was later cancelled due to restrictions that 
came into place in March that year due to the Coronavirus pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with how their claim had been handled and made a complaint. 
They said RSA had been slow in responding to their concerns and they thought the repairs 
suggested werent suitable. They also thought their neighbour should be told they have to 
remove the trees.
RSA responded to their complaint and upheld it in part. It Agreed that it hadnt provided good 
service and should have provided more regular updates. It offered £250 compensation to 
make up for this. However it didnt agree that the repairs were inappropriate and said it didnt 
have enough evidence that the trees were causing ongoing problems to force their 
neighbours to remove them. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was fair. They said that RSA had caused them significant 
inconvenience across their five year claim and the compensation didnt make up for that. 
They also didnt agree with the proposed repairs by RSAs contractor. They brought their 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. She said she thought RSA had caused 
around one years worth of delays which had caused them distress and inconvenience. She 
recommended it pay a total of £550 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted our investigators opinion. However RSA didnt agree that additional 
compensation was warranted. As an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has come to 
me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with how RSA has handled their claim. They dont agree the 
repairs that have been carried out have been sufficient and they think it has taken RSA too 
long to progress the matter. I have considered each of these in turn. 
Action taken in response to the claim
Having reviewed the action taken by RSA I am satisfied that it has taken appropriate steps in 
response to Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It initially sent a loss adjuster to inspect the cracks at their 
home and identify the cause. Once this was identified as the neighbours tree, it took action 
to mitigate the problem. While I appreciate it will have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs C that 
the tree hasnt been removed, as this was due to the decision of their neighbours, I cant say 
that was the fault of RSA. 
Once the tree was reduced, further monitoring was carried out on a number of occasions. 
And after the property was found to be stable, repairs commenced. This is in line with what I 
would expect to see with a subsidence claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that RSA has still been unable to get their 
neighbours to remove the two trees. However it has taken action to monitor the property, 
and these results have shown that the property is stable. So I agree that it doesnt have 
enough evidence to force the removal of the trees. So I cant say its acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy with the most recent repairs that have been suggested by 
RSAs contractor. It isnt the job of this service to decide what repairs are suitable  thats for 
experts who have inspected the damage to conclude. And we rely on the reports of these 
experts to decide whats fair. 
In this case RSAs subsidence expert has put forward a schedule for the work they think is 
required. And while Mr and Mrs C dont agree the repairs are sufficient, Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me they arent. Nor have I seen anything to show that the monitoring 
that has been carried out is incorrect. If Mr and Mrs C have concerns about RSAs experts 
conclusions, they can appoint their own expert to report on the matter. RSA has said it would 
consider any further expert opinions and I think thats fair in the circumstances. But in the 
absence of further reports or evidence, I dont agree RSA has acted unfairly in the steps it 
has taken to address the claim.
Delays and service
While I agree with the steps taken by RSA, I think it could have acted more quickly in 
carrying out these steps. I can see it has caused significant avoidable delays throughout the 
claim. And I agree with our investigator that these amount to around a year in total. I have considered the detailed notes from the claim provided by RSA. From these I can see 
there were times throughout the claim that Mr and Mrs C had to chase RSA. And there were 
long periods where RSA made no contact with them. While monitoring was ongoing, I would 
expect periods of time with little progress. But it wasnt only during this time that contact 
ceased. 
For example Mr and Mrs C raised concerns about new cracking shortly after a repair visit in 
December 2017. However this was only responded to in April 2018 and a visit wasnt 
arranged until June that year  six months after it was raised. From looking at the 
correspondence there seems to be no explanation for this delay. And Mr and Mrs C were 
concerned about the worsening condition of their property so this would have been very 
distressing. After this visit, Mr and Mrs C called again in September to report worsening 
damage. It then took another month for RSA to respond and request photos, delaying the 
progress further.
Throughout 2019 a further period of monitoring was agreed. However this was completed at 
the start of 2020. In January 2020 RSAs loss adjuster said a further appointment was 
required and that they should move to repairs. However nothing was arranged straight away 
and by the time it was, the loss adjuster only had availability in April 2020. While it wasnt 
RSAs fault that this had to be cancelled, as this was due to coronavirus restrictions, if there 
hadnt been delays before this then the appointment should have gone ahead before April 
and wouldnt have then been cancelled. The appointment was then not rescheduled until 
September 2020. So this led to further significant delays. 
So while I can see that not all delays were caused by RSA and some were unavoidable, I 
agree with our investigator that RSA has caused significant delays in the claim. And there 
were a number of times throughout where Mr and Mrs C were left waiting for an answer. I 
can see they contacted RSA regularly and didnt always hear back. So I agree these delays 
would have been distressing and inconvenient. 
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that RSA should pay a total of £550 
compensation, to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C a total of £550 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman