DRN-1786907
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc declined a claim under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H has a home insurance policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA). He made a 
claim in October 2019 after an ingress of water in his bedroom.
RSA sent out a surveyor. They reported that the water was coming through the flat roof 
above Mr H's bedroom, which was in a poor state of repair. And the damage in Mr H's 
bedroom was the result of prolonged water ingress over time.
RSA declined the claim, telling Mr H the policy didn't cover wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration. They said the rain had merely highlighted an existing maintenance issue.
Mr H complained to RSA. And when they maintained their position, he complained to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didn't think RSA had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H's policy terms are set out very clearly in the policy booklet. Wear and tear and gradual 
deterioration are not covered.
RSA are relying on the evidence provided by an expert after inspection of Mr H's property. 
The expert report is unequivocal in saying the flat roof is in a poor state of repair and is the 
source of the water getting into Mr H's bedroom.
Mr H himself tells us he has had no maintenance or repairs carried out on the roof in the 10 
years plus he's been in the house. Experts agree that the average life of a flat roof such as 
Mr H's is around 10-15 years. Possibly more if it is regularly and effectively maintained.
It's not entirely surprising then that Mr H's roof is in a poor state and has come to the end of 
its useful life. Photographs taken by the expert appointed by RSA confirm that. The damage 
inside Mr H's bedroom appears to be directly under the flat roof and appears to be aged.
Home insurance policies like Mr H's are intended to cover one-off events or accidents like 
storms. This policy is very clear about that. They aren't intended to cover maintenance 
issues. If they did - and if they provided a replacement when things wore out - it's difficult to 
see why anyone would ever incur the expense of maintaining their home.There was no storm or other insured event around the time of Mr H's claim. He thinks either 
persistent heavy rain and winds or animals dislodged a tile and caused a split in the 
membrane in another part of his roof - and this led to the water damage. 
The policy doesn't cover damage caused by vermin or by domestic animals. And it's not 
intended to cover water ingress caused by normal rainfall and winds - which would only 
happen if the roof were in a poor state of repair. That's all made very clear in the policy 
terms.
I'm satisfied on the basis of the expert report and evidence it's more likely the source of the 
water ingress is the flat roof. And even if it weren't - and Mr H is right - there is no evidence 
of any insured event which might have affected the other part of his roof. 
So, in summary, I can't conclude that RSA have acted in any way unreasonably or unfairly in 
declining Mr H's claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr H's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman