DRN-3591059
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has refused to 
pay out a claim under her critical illness policy and that it took an unreasonable amount of 
time to provide an outcome to her. She also says she feels the policy has been mis-sold.  
What happened
Mrs J took out her policy through a third party broker. It began in December 2014. It offers 
level term life and critical illness insurance of £120,000 for a 15 year term. Included within 
the policy is total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit on an own occupation basis.   
Mrs J sadly became unwell with a type of serious condition causing narrowing (stenosis) of 
her windpipe and respiratory failure, which necessitated surgery in 2021. However, Mrs J 
continued to suffer with breathing difficulties and could no longer remain in her job in 
financial services, which she had held for several decades. 
A claim was made for critical illness benefit in April 2021. At that time, Mrs J remained 
employed but explained she may not be able to perform her job due to the impact on her 
vocal cords and breathing. However, the type of condition Mrs J had was not included within 
the list of critical illnesses under her policy wording. Instead, L&G considered a TPD claim. 
In July 2021, Mrs J sent a letter chasing her claim as she said she had only received one 
contact from L&G in three months. She explained how the situation was extremely 
challenging for her in terms of her health and finances and L&G was making matters worse.  
She sent a further email in late September 2021 where she said L&G was trying to avoid 
paying her claim. It had also sent her an email for information which she found upsetting.  
L&G treated Mrs Js ongoing concerns as a complaint. In December 2021, it offered a 
response to the complaint. In terms of the claim, it said a decision had not been made yet. 
This was because TPD claims required in-depth assessment due to the strict nature of the 
wording. At the time of writing, it still needed more information to assess the claim.  
In respect of Mrs Js concerns, L&G said the earliest it could have begun to assess the claim 
was 25 May 2021  the date at which it had written to Mrs Js GP. It received information 
from the GP on 10 August and Mrs Js consultant on 24 August 2021. It then emailed Mrs J 
about that on 27 August 2021 and she replied the following day.  
L&G was not able to action that reply until 20 September 2021. Mrs J again replied the 
following day but L&G did not respond until 10 October 2021. L&G treated that reply as the 
complaint because Mrs J set out the physical and mental stress she was under.  
L&G said it agreed its service was not at its usual standard with turnaround times, and it had 
caused delays. It therefore offered to pay Mrs J £350 for the upset this had caused her. Mrs 
J said she did not accept the sum, but since L&G had not heard otherwise, it paid the sum 
into her bank account on 17 December 2021.
In December 2021, L&G asked Mrs J for more information regarding her occupation. It then 
wrote out to her former employer in January 2022. In April 2022, the employer told L&G it 
would not complete the request. Instead, Mrs J then completed a questionnaire for L&G.  
Mrs J complained again in March 2022. She sent several further emails to L&G with her 
concerns in March, April and May 2022. 
In early May 2022, L&G rejected the claim. It said the policy wording had not been met 
because while Mrs Js breathlessness and issues with speaking affected the telephony 
aspect of her job, there was no evidence that she wouldnt have been able to undertake 
some of her other usual duties in the role; using the telephone wasnt her main function.
Further, Mrs Js consultant had said that the medical procedure she underwent could be 
repeated in the future. Therefore L&G felt it was not able to say that Mrs Js condition 
rendered her permanently unable to work in her job, as there were options left to address 
her condition and some duties in the role that she could still perform despite her condition.   
L&G upheld the complaint in part on 17 May 2022. It said it would not review the claim 
decision, as it had reached the right outcome. It wasnt suggesting Mrs J wasnt seriously ill, 
but there was no claim to be paid under the TPD policy wording. It also reminded her of the 
name of the business that sold her policy if she now wished to complain about the sale.  
However, as before, it agreed the claim process had taken too long. It offered her 
compensation for several reasons  longer turnaround times than usual, lack of proactivity 
with emails sent by Mrs J, not logging each dissatisfaction as further complaints and taking 
longer than it should to log her later request for subject access under data protection rules. 
In total, L&G said a further £300 would be paid to Mrs J for these additional mistakes.  
Mrs J remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service, where it was considered 
by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mrs Js 
condition was not one included in her list of critical illnesses and so L&G had rightly looked 
to see if it could pay a claim under the claimable event of TPD. However, on the evidence 
she had seen, Mrs Js circumstances did not meet the totality or permanency required by the 
TPD definition; this meant L&G wasnt required to pay a claim.  
She otherwise felt that the amounts offered by L&G for its customer service failings were 
reasonable sums for the upset Mrs J had been caused. And she also noted that L&G had 
not sold Mrs J the policy, so it could not address her concerns about the sale. 
Mrs J disagreed. She made several further comments, noting:
she questions how L&G could have taken a whole year to inform her that her policy 
was in fact sold by a third party;
she does not think £650 is anywhere near acceptable for the anxiety she has 
suffered;
most of the work with the claim was undertaken by her, not L&G;
the case handler would never return her calls;
she has no quality of life;
she took out insurance to assist her in the circumstances she is now in but the 
insurance has failed her;
she feels the policy sold to her was not suitable for her situation and it is a disgrace;either L&G or the business that sold the policy could give her a small discretionary 
payment of a few thousand pounds for the shameful way in which she has been sold 
a policy unfit for her situation;
emails were missed by L&G and documents went missing from its online portals;
she has spent a long time when she has been unwell doing L&Gs job for it, only to 
be let down with a claim refusal;
she has had no income for over a year;
her gripe now is with the sale of the policy and this ought to be looked into properly;
however, she still wants her L&G complaint to go to an ombudsman for a fresh 
review because even if it was right to refuse her claim, it has handled the claim 
process dreadfully.    
L&G had no further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I was very sorry to learn of Mrs Js health issues. I send her my best wishes at 
what I can see has been a hard time for her. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, 
I am of the view that this complaint cannot succeed. I recognise this will be upsetting for Mrs 
J, but I will explain my reasons so she can understand why I have reached this conclusion.  
Mrs Js condition (which is a rare type of subglottic stenosis) is not a listed critical illness 
under her policy wording.  It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every 
conceivable critical illness a person may suffer from or every type of procedure as a listed 
event, because the cost would be inherently unaffordable for most people seeking cover. 
What critical illness policies provide is insurance against being diagnosed with the most 
common instances of severe illnesses and the most commonly occurring serious events.
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and 
the guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and 
exclusions applicable to their products. Mrs Js condition is not one included by the ABI in its 
model wordings. 
So, L&G has not done anything wrong by saying it cannot pay out generally for a serious 
illness that Mrs J has suffered. I know Mrs J feels that when the policy was sold to her she 
thought she would be protected against any illness. Any complaint she has about what was 
said in 2014 when the policy was sold needs to be taken up with the separate broker 
business. I understand our investigator has assisted Mrs J with this.  
The policy Mrs J held did not include income protection  so it couldnt pay out where a 
policyholder was too ill or incapacitated to be able to carry out their job. It offered cover in 
the event of a listed critical illness. So, L&G rightly looked at a TPD claim as this is not tied to 
one condition. Instead, a claim could be paid if Mrs J was unable to perform her own 
occupation ever again and importantly, that this would be the case permanently.
To satisfy a claim, the policy wording must be met in full. In Mrs Js policy, the wording says:
Total and permanent disability - unable to do your own occupation ever again.Loss of the physical or mental ability through an illness or injury to the extent that the 
life assured is unable to do the material and substantial duties of their own 
occupation ever again. The material and substantial duties are those that are 
normally required for, and/or form a significant and integral part of, the performance 
of the life assured's own occupation that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified.
'Own occupation' means your trade, profession or type of work you do for profit or 
pay. It is not a specific job with any particular employer [my emphasis] and is 
irrespective of location and availability.
The relevant specialists must reasonably expect that the disability will last throughout 
life with no prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the cover ends or the life 
assured expects to retire.
For the above definition, disabilities for which the relevant specialists cannot give a 
clear prognosis are not covered.
I realise that Mrs Js employment ended in July 2021 and the terms of that are compromised. 
I cant discuss it here, and the employer would not comment on the restrictions Mrs J had 
before she left. Nonetheless, I dont find that to be central to the assessment of the claim. 
I have highlighted above the wording relating to Mrs Js own occupation. What that means is 
the material and substantial duties of Mrs Js work are relevant to the role, rather than 
holding of the specific position with her former employer. In this case, Mrs J completed 
general and wide-ranging clerical duties for a bank. These duties had a mix of sedentary and 
physical elements, and some customer-facing work and use of the telephone.  
I accept that the impact of Mrs Js diagnosis has a bearing on speaking and breathing. But, 
the policy wording above allows for modification of her job in the form of reasonable 
adjustments. So, the TPD definition would only be met if Mrs J could not do the main duties 
of her job again without adjustments. Put another way, Mrs J would have to show evidence 
that either the majority of her role required use of her voice which she could not complete  
or that the other duties of her job could not be adjusted to account for her condition.  
When asked about her job, Mrs J gave other substantive duties such as business banking 
and operation of financial machinery which do not seem affected by her condition. And 
though there were complications at the time of her employment ending relating to the 
wearing of face masks, these restrictions are no longer in place. 
To meet a TPD claim, the wording requires that Mrs Js inability to complete her own 
occupation would remain so permanently. I havent seen any clear evidence that this was or 
is the case. 
To satisfy the definition above, Mrs J would also require some medical evidence to support 
that her incapacitation would remain for the rest of her life. The medical evidence doesnt 
say that, nor does it give a degree of permanency. Mrs Js treating consultant provided a 
report to L&G along with correspondence following the surgery Mrs J had. In that 
correspondence he set out that Mrs J could undergo further surgery if she required it. 
So, where reasonable treatment options have not been exhausted, it cannot be said that Mrs 
J has no reasonable prospect of recovery such that she could never perform her occupation 
in a bank again. This is irrespective of whether her previous employment has ended or not.  
I recognise that the definition set out above is a high threshold to meet. This is true of TPD definitions generally  it is not specific to L&G, but instead, set out as suggested wording by 
the ABI in the model wordings for such policies that I referred to earlier. 
From the information Ive seen, L&G was reasonable in refusing the claim where 
permanency if Mrs Js illness preventing her from doing her own occupation ever again is in 
dispute, and where her attending consultant has not given evidence of Mrs J having a 
disability that will last throughout her life with no prospect of improvement. 
Mrs J remains free to provide further evidence to L&G. She may wish to show this decision 
or the policy wording to her appropriate specialist(s). She also remains free to request an 
independent medical examination from L&G - but as Ive said above, that is a decision for 
L&G to make based on the information it receives. And as it stands, I believe it has fairly 
rejected the claim because the evidence it has received does not fulfil the definition above.  
Finally, I know Mrs J feels that the total £650 she has been offered is insufficient to reflect 
the suffering she has been placed under. Our awards are not punitive; we do not direct 
compensation to discipline businesses. So I cannot award several thousands of pounds on 
the discretionary basis Mrs J has asked for. Nor can I suggest how such awards are made 
by a business. Were not a regulator that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead, we make limited compensatory awards which account for the impact of any upset 
caused where for unreasonable actions or inactions by a business. Mrs J may wish to review 
our website for guidance around awards if she requires. 
The circumstances in which Mrs J fell seriously ill are clearly traumatic for her, and continue 
to be so where she has lost her employment and means of income. I do not underestimate 
how she feels. But L&G hasnt caused these circumstances. What it had to do was fairly and 
reasonably process her claim. 
TPD claims can take many months or more to resolve because of the very strict wording 
involved. However, L&G has rightly identified a number of administrative failings it caused 
which contributed to the considerable strain Mrs J was under; the time it took to give a claim 
outcome was not reasonable in the circumstances.  
That being said, L&G has suggested a total amount for the errors it identified that is, in my 
view, reasonable and commensurate with the types of award this service makes when a 
business has caused a complainant distress. I find £650 was a fair amount in the 
circumstances of delays, lack of proactive responses and failure to keep Mrs J updated as 
she required. I understand the second payment has been paid to Mrs J, but L&G ought to 
forward it without further delay if the £300 remains outstanding.  
Otherwise, I dont find L&G to have unreasonably refused the claim.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Js position, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman