DRN-2844682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) when they applied for a
mortgage in 2003. They selected PPI as part of this. The cover was in Mr As sole name. It
gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly
amount for it. They both took out life and critical illness cover as part of the same plan. This
complaint looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
The banks records show the sale took place in a branch.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A disagreed
so the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and 
so issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I 
asked both parties to send any comments by 25 May 2021.
extract from my provisional decision 
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr A to Mr and Mrs A, so it had to make sure it was right
for him. I dont think it was: it doesnt seem Mr and Mrs A really needed the policy. I think
they had sufficient other means and couldve managed without it.
Mr A was entitled to eight months full pay and four months half pay if he was sick, and a
redundancy package that he says would have been worth two years salary. Given his
time in role and the nature of his employment, I think this is not unlikely. And critically, in
addition to Mr As employee benefits, Mr and Mrs A had easily-accessible savings worth
over two years of Mr As net salary. I have not considered their endowment investments or
Mr As stock options in this analysis.
So when looking at the ways Mr and Mrs A had to meet their mortgage repayments if Mr A
was sick or lost his job, I dont think they had a strong need for PPI. I have taken into
account that the policy paid out on successful claims for up to 24 months but given Mr As
benefits package and level of savings this doesnt change my conclusion.
This means I dont currently think Halifax made the right recommendation when it sold PPI
for Mr A to Mr and Mrs A. It follows I think Mr and Mrs A have lost out because of what the
bank did wrong.
I then set out what Halifax would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision saying it would settle in line with the 
instructions we set out.
Mr and Mrs A did not submit any further comments or information.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
As neither party provided any new information it follows I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Halifax will have to put Mr and Mrs A in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt already been, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what he
got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also deduct any other refund of
commission it has already made.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mr and
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 Im upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) must put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman