DRN-3439606
The complaint
Mr B through his representative has complained that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Everyday Lending approved Mr B for one loan in May 2019, which was for £2,000 repayable 
over 24 months of around £240 each month. Mr B had told Everyday Lending that it was to 
consolidate other credit and to pay for a holiday.
Everyday Lending explained in the final response letter (FRL) to Mr B that before approving 
the loan, it looked at his bank statements for two full months preceding the application date 
which would have been April and May 2019. It carried out a credit search and knew Mr B 
had credit cards (revolving credit)  their balances were around £382 and £179 which added 
up to be £561. It knew Mr B had outstanding loans one of which was costing him around 
£296 each month and the other (a relatively recent one) was costing him around £52 a 
month.
Everyday Lending has shown us evidence that Mr B confirmed that the overdraft he had on 
an old student account was for £1,239.00 and he was paying this back and would also use 
part of the Everyday loan to help clear this.
Everyday Lending said in its FRL that it did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. After Mr B had 
referred it to the Financial Ombudsman, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and 
thought that the combination of paying for the outstanding loan (after consolidation) plus the 
Everyday Lending loan was too much for Mr B on his salary.
Everyday Lending disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me. On 6 April 
2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I gave reasons as to why I was planning not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
My provisional decision is duplicated in the next section and in smaller type to differentiate it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two questions that I need to 
answer to decide Mr Bs complaint fairly and reasonably. These are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr B would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on him financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
The provisional decision issued 6 April 2022
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context all 
means for Mr Bs complaint.
Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Mr B. I summarised that in the what 
happened section of this provisional decision and Ive seen the information gathered by Everyday 
Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it at the time. Everyday Lending 
did an income and expenditure review and calculated that Mr B had over £700 each month after 
repaying the Everyday Lending loan.
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out before lending to Mr B were reasonable and 
proportionate, in the circumstances.
In addition, I do not think that Mr B had an extensive amount of credit commitments and what he did 
have Everyday Lending knew he had it. On current evidence I have no reason to doubt that Mr B 
used some of the new capital from the Everyday loan to pay down some or all of his old student 
account, his two credit cards and the other small loan hed taken in April 2019. And I have no real 
evidence that Mr B was borrowing extensively from his family, as our adjudicator thought.
Overall I do not think that Mr B was short particularly and not likely struggling to repay debts, and one 
of the reasons I think this is that Mr B was living at home and spending little on the usual overheads 
associated with rent and utilities.
Another reason is that having reviewed Mr Bs bank statements given to Everyday Lending in 2019, 
then I can see that when Mr B was applying to Everyday Lending for the £2,000 loan he had around 
£935 in that account. This does lead me to think that Mr B likely was looking for a capital sum to do as 
he said he was going to do (pay off some debt and use it for a holiday), and not because he was 
particularly short of cash at the time he applied to Everyday Lending.
So, I consider that Everyday Lending had carried out proportionate checks, was aware of the planned 
use for the loan money and Mr B was in credit in his day-to-day current account when applying to it for 
the loan. And so, I would not consider that Everyday Lending was alerted to a problem with Mr Bs 
finances and so I would not have expected it to do more than it did before lending.
I have seen nothing to suggest to me that Everyday Lending acted towards Mr B in any other unfair or 
unreasonable way.
On current evidence I am planning not to uphold this complaint.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
How did the parties respond to the provisional decision? 
Everyday Lending has responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr Bs representative has said the provisional decision has been received by them and they 
have contacted Mr B who has not responded. His representative said recently that it would 
contact Mr B again and we were to continue as scheduled if we do not hear from them 
further. In light of this then I consider it appropriate to issue my final determination. And having 
received no further evidence or representations from either party then I repeat here the 
provisional findings duplicated above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons given in this decision, I do not uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman