DRN-3083491
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) declined his claim 
under his motor insurance policy and avoided the policy following theft of his vehicle.
What happened
Mr H added a vehicle to his motor insurance policy with Admiral in 2017. This vehicle was 
stolen in September 2019. Mr H notified the police and made a claim on his policy.
Admiral declined the claim and avoided his policy on the basis that the vehicle had been 
modified. It said that Mr H had not informed it about these modifications when adding the 
vehicle to his policy. Admiral states that if it had been made aware of these modifications, it 
wouldnt have insured the vehicle.
Mr H states that hed informed Admiral of modifications when he added the vehicle to his 
policy and that he was very specific about this. The modifications related to a named 
companys body kit and model. During the insurance claim process, Mr H said that these 
were cosmetic modifications only which didnt affect performance of the vehicle. He said that 
they included upgraded seats, alloy wheels and stickers.
Mr H said that the registration document made no reference to modifications. He said that 
the changes had been made before he bought the vehicle and that he bought it after seeing 
it for sale in a trade advert.
When Admiral indicated that it was minded to avoid the policy, Mr H said that he was happy 
to accept that the vehicle was not the named companys body kit and model. He said that 
this was because the registration documents didnt refer to any modifications and neither did 
it look like any other vehicle of such model. He said that the value of the vehicle was the 
same as that of a basic model.
Admiral maintained its position that it wouldnt have provided cover for the vehicle due to the 
modifications from the standard specification. It declined to pay out on Mr Hs claim in the 
circumstances. Mr H therefore complained to our service. 
Our investigator thought that if Mr H had confirmed to Admiral in 2017 that the vehicle did 
have modifications, the wording in the policy schedule would have prompted Mr H to query 
why the policy hadnt noted this point. 
Our investigator appreciated that although Mr H said that the modifications didnt affect the 
performance of the vehicle, changes had nevertheless been made to the vehicle. She said 
that these met the definition of modifications in the policy. Our investigator concluded that if 
the insurer had been aware of the modifications, it wouldnt have insured the vehicle. She 
didnt consider that Admiral had acted unfairly by avoiding the policy in all the circumstances.
Mr H is unhappy with this outcome and the matter has therefore been referred to me in order 
to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to consider whether Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in the light of the law 
and any relevant policy terms in declining Mr Hs claim. In all the circumstances, I cant say 
that Admiral has acted in an unfair or unreasonable way in avoiding Mr Hs policy and then in 
not returning all premiums paid. Ill explain why.
The relevant law is found in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to the insurer. The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer.
Under the Act, if the consumer fails to take care in giving or confirming information, the 
insurer then has certain remedies where the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as 
a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to 
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or indeed not offered it at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Finally, CIDRA also sets out considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
any qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless, or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and the insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it wouldnt 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
Firstly therefore, I must decide whether there has been any misrepresentation. In other 
words, did Mr H fail to draw Admirals attention to any relevant modification to the vehicle 
and, if so, did this amount to a misrepresentation by Mr H? 
Its most unfortunate that Admiral no longer have the telephone records for the occasion 
when Mr H added the vehicle to his policy in 2017. Mr H requested these records on several 
occasions following the theft of his vehicle in 2019. Admiral required Mr H to supply a copy 
of his driving licence before doing so. The implication is therefore that Admiral still held the 
records in late 2019. It now states that the records are no longer available.
Admirals representative stated that he had made a transcript of the relevant telephone 
records when he was investigating the complaint however. The transcript clearly records that 
Mr H was asked when adding the vehicle to his policy; Are there any non-standard 
modifications or optional extras fitted to the car? and it also records that Mr H answered 
No.
Mr H states that he had informed Admiral of the modifications on this occasion and he 
considers that the record is incomplete. On the balance of probabilities however, I accept 
that the transcript provides the clearest evidence in this respect. When speaking to Admiral 
following the theft, Mr H said that he had been very specific when adding the vehicle to the 
policy that there were modifications which consisted of a named companys body kit and 
model. The 2017 advert for the vehicle also referred to the body kit. I therefore conclude that 
Mr H was aware of certain modifications when adding the vehicle to his policy but omitted to 
inform Admiral of them.The second question I need to address is whether the changes to the vehicle were 
modifications within the wording of the policy. It they were, and if it would be reasonable for 
Mr H to have been aware of this fact, then failure to mention them would amount to a 
misrepresentation. It they werent, then the changes wouldnt be relevant under the policy 
terms. In that case, there wouldnt have been a misrepresentation.
Turning therefore to the policy documents, specifically the policy schedule, it makes it clear 
Please check this document carefully. Under the section headed vehicle details it states 
that no modification has been made to the vehicle. I note that immediately under this section, 
the insurer defines what it classes as a modification;
Anything which changes the makers standard specification or alters its performance,
including cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels, body kits, or any non-standard parts. If 
you have any queries, please call us.
Under the general conditions of the policy, it states; - Any incorrect information could result 
in an additional premium, affect the amount you are able to claim or may even mean you are 
unable to make a claim. If the information differs significantly it could even result in your 
policy being declared void.
Its clear from Mr Hs candid accounts and evidence that he was satisfied that the vehicle 
had been changed in certain respects before he bought it. Mr H states that these were 
cosmetic changes, however such changes are clearly captured in the policy definition of a 
modification. In the circumstances, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mr H 
misrepresented the position when the vehicle was added to the policy. Im also satisfied that 
it would have been reasonable for Mr H to consider that the changes were modifications as 
defined in the policy terms and conditions, as it refers to cosmetic as well as other more 
significant changes.
The third question for me to consider is whether the misrepresentation was deliberate, 
reckless or careless. From the evidence Ive seen and Mr Hs candid accounts, Mr H 
considered the changes to be cosmetic ones which didnt affect performance or the price of 
the vehicle when he bought it. 
Mr H would nevertheless have been expected to check the wording of his policy schedule 
and to check whether these changes were ones which could affect his insurance cover. As 
the policy schedule wording was clear and the definition of a modification was so wide-
ranging, I do consider that Mr H was careless in certain respects. The schedule recorded 
that there were no modifications, whether cosmetic or more significant, when this wasnt the 
case. Mr H didnt then check the position with Admiral when the policy schedule clearly 
recorded the need to do so. I dont consider that the failure was deliberate or reckless 
however.
Im satisfied that Mr H didnt deliberately conceal the modifications as he referred to these 
openly when he lodged his claim with Admiral. Im also satisfied that Mr H thought that the 
changes were minimal and didnt consist of significant changes to the makers standard 
specification or something which altered the performance of the vehicle. 
I do however consider that on the balance of probabilities, Mr H was careless in not reading 
or checking the definition of a modification, in that even cosmetic changes may have 
affected cover and, if he had checked the position with Admiral, it wouldnt have provided 
insurance cover. I consider that Mr H had been put on notice of Admirals understanding that 
there had been no modifications as this was recorded in the policy documents and not then 
corrected.As its my conclusion that Mr H made a careless misrepresentation when obtaining 
insurance cover or in checking his policy documents, Ill now go on to consider a fourth 
question. That question is whether the misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation as 
defined in the legislation. In other words, can Admiral show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms or indeed not at all if Mr H hadnt made the misrepresentation?
Ive seen evidence of the criteria used by Admiral. I note that Admiral would have declined to 
cover Mr Hs vehicle if its break horse power (BHP) had been increased by 26% or over 
through any modification. Mr H states that the changes involved upgraded seats and alloy 
wheels with some stickers, however the changes didnt affect the engine or performance of 
the vehicle.
Admiral states that it contacted the relevant body kit company in relation to the modifications, 
although the company had no records of this particular vehicle. It states that the company 
did advise that the relevant model; would have included an engine upgrade of 50 BHP. Our 
Underwriting Department has confirmed the standard BHP for the vehicle is 122 BHP, this 
would mean the engine has a BHP increase of 41% and we only accept an increase up to 
25%.
Mr H states that he believed his vehicle to have been that particular model, however he had 
no knowledge of changes to the vehicles engine or performance. He said the ownership 
document had no mention of any changes and he didnt pay an additional amount for any 
modifications when he bought it. 
Although it's a finely balanced judgment, I consider that the vehicle was likely to have been 
the model that Mr H referenced during the claim process as he was specific about the name 
of the model. Admirals record of the body kit companys response makes it clear that the 
model in question included an engine upgrade which would have affected performance and 
increased its BHP. I consider the upgrade to be a direct result of the modifications. I also 
consider the evidence supplied by the company which fitted the modifications to be 
persuasive. On the balance of probabilities, I consider that the model of vehicle which Mr H 
bought would have included an engine upgrade of over 26%. I conclude that Admiral would 
have declined cover had it been made aware of this modification. 
Im therefore satisfied that theres been a qualifying misrepresentation in relation to the 
modification and that this provides a remedy to Admiral under the terms and conditions of Mr 
Hs policy. Im also satisfied that Admirals underwriting criteria makes it clear that the policy 
wouldnt have been provided in such circumstances. It was therefore reasonable for Admiral 
to have avoided the policy. Having avoided the policy, there is no longer a claim to consider.
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr H, however I conclude that 
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances in avoiding Mr Hs policy on the 
grounds given. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman