DRN-3134316
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Mercury Wealth Management Limited (MWM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr R was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his DB scheme. So, he contacted MWM for advice. Mr R met with MWM in 
November 2016; it completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather 
information about his circumstances and objectives. MWM also carried out an assessment of 
Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced. 
On 10 March 2017, MWM advised Mr R to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds across an equal split of defensive and growth funds. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr R wanted to benefit 
from his pension earlier than his normal retirement age and he wanted to access his benefits 
flexibly. It said Mr R intended to use his tax-free cash (TFC) to pay off his mortgage and 
other debts. It also said the personal pension provided additional death benefits which could 
be passed on to his wife and children, which was important to Mr R. 
Mr R accepted the advice. On 5 April 2017 £390,226.63 was transferred to Mr Rs personal 
pension and he took TFC of £97,556.66 to repay some of his debts. Mr R didnt take any 
income from his pension as he intended to keep working until age 65.
Mr R, through his representative, complained in 2019 to MWM about the suitability of the 
transfer advice.
MWM didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said Mr R wanted to leave whatever remained of his 
pension to his family, and he was concerned that he had a shorter life expectancy because 
of the nature of his work. MWM added that Mr R needed the flexibility to be able to pay off 
his debts at 55 and leave his remaining funds invested until he retired at 65.
An investigator ultimately upheld the complaint as he thought the advice MWM gave Mr R 
was unsuitable. The investigator acknowledged Mr R was motivated to transfer away from 
the BSPS and he was attracted by the higher death benefits a personal pension could 
provide, but he thought it was clear Mr R would be worse off by transferring out. And he 
didnt think he shouldve been advised to do so just to obtain higher death benefits or 
flexibility that he didnt actually need. The investigator said it should compensate Mr R for the 
losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should be based 
on Mr R having opted to join the BSPS2 as he didnt have any plans to retire early.
MWM maintained Mr Rs objectives couldve only be met by transferring out of the BSPS. It 
said it wasnt fair to say that it would only be in Mr Rs best interest if MWM could 
demonstrate he would be better off financially  Mr Rs other objectives had to be taken into 
account. It said Mr R was very motivated to transfer out, with his main concern being his fear 
of dying young, given the nature of his work and his family history. MWM added it was made 
clear to Mr R what hed be giving up and he was determined to proceed; he signed a letter to 
this effect and also gave up the higher transfer value that wouldve been on offer to him. 
MWM also maintained that Mr Rs debts were not manageable; it said hed recently taken on 
a new mortgage which he planned to pay off using his TFC. MWM added that even if it had 
advised Mr R to remain in the scheme, he wouldve found another adviser to transfer his 
pension.
MWM also asked for an oral hearing. It believed Mr R needed to be questioned further on his 
mortality concerns, his need for additional death benefits and his need to repay debts. Also, 
it thought Mr R needed to be asked to what extent he understood the transfer and the risks 
associated with it. MWM thought the evidence Mr R had given in support of his complaint 
was inconsistent with the information he gave to MWM at the time of the advice. 
The investigator didnt change his opinion so the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision and to decide whether to hold an oral hearing. 
I turned down MWMs request for an oral hearing because I was satisfied I could make a 
decision on this case fairly without hearing oral evidence. But I decided to ask Mr R to 
provide his comments on the issues raised by MWM in writing.
Mr R provided a statement, which was passed on to MWM for its comments. Mr R said that 
the death benefits were emphasised by MWM, not him, and that the adviser showed him 
statistics about younger deaths associated with shift work. He said he was in good health 
and he had existing life insurance. Mr R added that he didnt have any unmanageable debts 
and thought they had been recorded incorrectly by the adviser. For example, it said he had a 
car loan of £10,000, but it was actually a personal contract purchase (PCP)  he simply had 
a monthly repayment until the lease ended and he returned the car. Mr R also asked why he 
would be granted a new mortgage if there were concerns he couldnt afford the repayments. 
Mr R said he didnt really understand what he was going into, and didnt think he was taking 
a risk by transferring out of the BSPS. Mr R said he didnt know how soon his funds could 
run out.
MWM disputed that the statement had been authored by Mr R and said that it still thought an 
oral hearing was warranted as there was a clear dispute in the facts. It said it hadnt shared 
any articles with Mr R about mortality rates associated with shift workers. It also said Mr Rs 
comments about death benefits were totally at odds with what he told the adviser at the time. 
MWM added that the ombudsman couldnt take information that Mr R hadnt shared with it at 
the time, such as Mr Rs insurance, as its advice had been given based on the information 
Mr R had provided. MWM made other comments in line with the response it had given to the 
investigators view. It also said that it expected the ombudsman to issue a provisional decision as it had made arguments in its letter of 21 January 2022 that hadnt yet been 
addressed. 
Although MWM maintained that the advice it gave Mr R was suitable, it made an offer of 
£40,000 to him without prejudice and also sought to engage with Mr Rs representative 
about him purchasing an annuity instead. Mr Rs representative turned the offer down on his 
behalf and said Mr R would only accept a settlement based on the regulator's DB pension 
transfer redress methodology.
MWM thought this demonstrated Mr Rs motivation was to have his cake and eat it too. It 
also thought it showed Mr R preferred the flexibility of a lump sum held in a personal pension 
over a guaranteed income that an annuity would provide him with.
The investigator informed MWM that I was satisfied that an oral hearing wasnt required in 
order for me to decide the case fairly. So, Im now providing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to address MWMs concerns about my decision not to hold an oral hearing. 
It says that it is incumbent on me to hold an oral hearing because there is a dispute in the 
facts which are material to the outcome of the complaint. It says that my request to Mr R to 
give his comments in writing misses the point of a hearing, which is a means of testing the 
credibility of the evidence Mr R has provided.
As I have said previously it is clear that Mr R, with the benefit of hindsight, feels differently 
about his pension transfer. That isnt surprising to me. And I dont think its really in dispute 
that at the time of the advice, Mr R felt that transferring out of the BSPS was a good idea. He 
feels differently now, which is why he has complained. It isnt reasonable to suggest that a 
customer cant change their mind about things or make a complaint if, on reflection, they 
think the advice they received was unsuitable.
I can also see that some of the information Mr R has given now is different to the information 
recorded by MWM at the time of the advice. But that isnt particularly unusual and it does not 
follow that I must hold a hearing to determine the veracity of Mr Rs statements. The events 
took place around five years ago and so Mr R may remember things differently now. But in 
any event, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I determine what I consider is more 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
So, I have borne the factual discrepancies in mind when reviewing the case, and I have 
attached varying degrees of weight to the evidence as appropriate. And as MWM is aware, 
evidence from the time of the sale is generally likely to carry more weight.
MWM said it expects me to issue a provisional decision on this case. But I dont think I need 
to do so. Having considered everything provided by both sides, Im upholding the complaint 
for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. Im not persuaded that any of the 
arguments raised by MWM in its letter of 21 January 2022 are new and Im satisfied that the 
investigator addressed these themes fully in each of his opinion letters. I am also not making 
my decision based on any new information provided by Mr R. So, it follows that I can issue a 
final decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, MWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr R was 55 at the time of the advice and he told the adviser that he wasnt likely to stop 
working until age 65. The investment return required to match the DB pension at retirement 
at age 65 (critical yield) was 13% per year if benefits were taken in full. The equivalent 
critical yield to match the benefits available if the BSPS moved to the PPF was 9.4%. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr Rs balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think Mr R was likely 
to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement 
(even if the BSPS moved to the PPF), as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
The critical yield needed to match Mr Rs benefits through the BSPS or the PPF at 65 if Mr R 
took TFC were not provided. But I dont think they were likely to be substantially lower, and 
certainly not as low as the discount rate or the regulators middle growth rate. So, even if 
Mr R took TFC at age 65, I dont think he was likely to even match the same pension 
benefits if he transferred out of the BSPS, let alone exceed them.
However, MWM says the critical yield is of limited relevance as Mr R was not planning to 
take an annuity with his pension funds. Furthermore, it said it didnt tell Mr R that he could 
achieve a higher pension by transferring out and Mr R understood the critical yield was 
unlikely to be achieved. But in my opinion, the critical yield does still give a good indication of 
the value of benefits Mr R was giving up and the regulator deems it an important part of the 
decision-making process. And while I accept that Mr R signed a letter on 13 December 2016 
which stated he understood that a growth rate of 13% couldnt be achieved, it doesnt say 
whether Mr R understood that the growth rate required to match the PPF benefits (9.4%) 
was achievable. And that was the more important figure here given that Mr Rs DB scheme 
was moving to the PPF. Nevertheless, making Mr R aware of the risks isnt a substitute for 
suitable advice.
Ive also considered the cash flow forecast produced by MWM, which it says shows Mr R 
could meet his income needs and he would still have a pension fund worth around £400,000 
at age 85. But this is only achieved by Mr R taking much less income than he would be 
entitled through the BSPS or the PPF from his personal pension from age 65. And in fact, 
the cash flow forecast shows Mr R withdrawing a negligible sum from age 75, reducing to 
nothing at all from age 80. So, Im not necessarily persuaded that Mr R understood that hed need to take substantially less income from his personal pension, instead relying on his state 
pension, to make his funds last.
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Rs benefits were reduced, he 
was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a personal 
pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr R would be financially worse off in 
retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Rs best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as MWM 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered below whether such other 
reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
One of MWMs main arguments in support of its recommendation to transfer was that Mr R 
wanted to take his TFC at 55 to reduce his debts. It says Mr R had already made plans 
based on this, taking out a mortgage of £37,000 very recently to buy his new house. MWM 
says that Mr R told the adviser it was always his intention to pay this mortgage off on his 55th 
birthday in January 2017 by accessing his TFC. MWM says this is the reason Mr R didnt 
choose a fixed interest rate. 
MWM said Mr R therefore needed to take his TFC straight away but as he intended to 
continue working to age 65, he had no need to take any pension income. As such, he 
needed to be able to access his pension flexibly as he couldnt take TFC without also taking 
his pension income through the BSPS. For this reason, MWM said Mr Rs objectives could 
only be met by transferring out of the BSPS. It said if Mr R couldnt access his TFC now, he 
wouldnt be able to afford his outgoings.
 
MWMs financial planning questionnaire and meeting notes say at the time of the advice 
Mr R had two mortgages totalling £105,000 with combined monthly repayments of £974. 
Both would end by the time Mr R retired at 65. Mr R also had a car loan of £10,000 costing 
him £175 per month and another loan of £15,000 costing £202 per month ending when he 
would be 65. Mr R also appears to have had credit card debt of around £9,000. 
Mr R says his mortgages and debts were not unaffordable and made the point that the bank 
wouldnt have loaned him more money if he was struggling financially.
Mr R turned 55 in January 2017, so he was able to access his pension very soon after his 
first meetings with MWM. And based on the meeting notes, I think Mr R most likely planned 
to use the TFC available to him to pay down as much of his debt as he could at the time. But 
an adviser's job isn't simply to facilitate a customer's objectives. Any objectives should be 
interrogated thoroughly to determine whether or not they are realistic, or achievable through 
other means. And ultimately, the adviser has to determine whether giving up the secure, 
guaranteed benefits available through the BSPS or the PPF was in Mr R's best interest.
MWM says it had asked Mr R what Mrs R earned, but he said Mrs R didnt disclose this to 
him. So, it advised Mr R on the basis that the disclosed monthly outgoings, which included 
mortgage and loan repayments, utility bills, and other general expenses, were his alone. And 
that this showed Mr R had a shortfall in income that could only be addressed by him 
accessing his TFC and reducing his debts.
Mr R may not have known what Mrs R earned, but I dont think that means it was reasonable 
for MWM to not have factored in her earnings into its analysis of their income needs in 
retirement. MWM knew Mrs R was working at the time, and it is reasonable to assume she was contributing to the household expenses. At no point did Mr R ever suggest he was in 
financial difficulty  in fact in the meeting note of 12 December 2016 Mr R said the debts 
were not giving him a problem. Mr R simply approached MWM with a plan to pay off some of 
his debts, not because he couldnt afford them but because he thought it was a good idea to 
do so in light of the rules allowing him to access his pension at 55. So, I think MWM needed 
to do more to understand Mr Rs total household income given its advice was going to be 
having a substantial impact on his retirement funds, which were intended to provide for both 
him and Mrs R.
Based on what Ive seen in the financial planning questionnaire, financial plan and meeting 
notes, I dont think Mr Rs outgoings were unaffordable. After tax, national insurance 
contributions and the money Mr R was putting into his new workplace defined-contribution 
scheme (DCS), his take home pay was around £2,500 per month. Mr Rs monthly mortgage 
and loan repayments amounted to around £1,350, and utilities, council tax and insurance 
added another £300 per month. I dont know what Mr R was repaying towards his credit card 
debt each month. However, I think its fair to assume hed be paying at least £250 towards 
this each month to meet the minimum repayments. This left around £600 per month for 
essential spending, plus whatever Mrs R earned. Mr Rs mortgages and loans wouldve 
been repaid by the time he wanted to retire at 65. So, I dont think there was any actual 
immediate need for Mr R to access his pension funds to repay his debts. And his monthly 
expenses were affordable until then even without factoring in Mrs Rs income.
I can see that in the meeting note of 11 April 2017, Mr R disclosed that Mrs Rs income was 
about £11,500 per year (gross), so around £900 per month (net). Although this was a month 
after the advice was given, I dont see why MWM couldnt have insisted that Mr R provide 
this information to MWM before it gave the advice. I think MWM needed to know this 
information in order to understand the full picture and give suitable advice, particularly as it 
affected Mrs Rs retirement too. And if MWM had known what Mrs R earned, it wouldve 
been even clearer that Mr R didnt need to access his pension to pay off his debts  between 
them, their income covered their outgoings comfortably.
MWMs financial plan included basic expenses and leisure expenses of £2,000 per month, 
which seems to be the main reason why its analysis of Mr Rs income versus expenditure 
showed an income shortfall. But I dont know how MWM came up with these figures  there 
is no further breakdown or analysis of them. I accept that Mr R stated that he wanted to be 
able to take his family away on holiday in the near future. He said by freeing up £1,000 per 
month from servicing the mortgage debt, this would go some way to being able to do that. 
So, it may have come from this, but I dont think this could reasonably be factored in as a 
long-term income requirement. And I dont think that MWM shouldve encouraged Mr R to 
transfer out of the BSPS just to be able to take his family on holiday in any event.
MWM also says that Mr R said he wanted to be able to benefit from his pension now, rather 
than at 65 when he might not be well enough to enjoy it. It says freeing up income that was 
otherwise being used to service debts would allow him to do this. But as Ive said above, 
Mr Rs income was already sufficient to meet his essential household expenditure, and 
together with Mrs Rs earnings they had significant disposable income. And I still dont think 
that Mr Rs security in retirement shouldve been risked to free up some extra income, 
particularly whilst he was still working and intended to do so for another decade. 
MWM also recorded that Mr R was due to receive an inheritance of £100,000 on his fathers 
death. Mr Rs father was noted to be 88 at the time of the advice, so I dont think it is 
unreasonable to say that he couldve expected this inheritance within the next 10 years. Its 
also reasonable to assume Mr Rs income would increase over the next 10 years, providing 
additional funds to supplement his lifestyle. In addition, Mr R was paying into his DCS, and 
MWM has shown that this wouldve been worth over £25,000 by 2022. Mr R couldve accessed these funds to supplement his lifestyle or use it for luxuries like holidays if he 
wanted to before he retired. So, I think its fair to say that Mr R had other means of meeting 
this objective.
Overall, I dont think Mr Rs desire to pay down some of his debts was a good enough 
reason for him to give up a secure, guaranteed, escalating pension income in retirement. 
And I think MWM recognised this  in the meeting notes from 15 November 2016 MWM 
states that it told Mr R, he shouldnt be considering moving out from his DB scheme just 
to pay off his debts as he may not have anything to live off in retirement
The advantages of staying in the scheme and disadvantages of transferring out are referred 
to in the recommendation letter, and Mr R also signed a letter confirming he was aware his 
pension could be lower in retirement if he transferred out. But the transfer was justified by 
MWM by suggesting Mr Rs objectives couldnt be achieved by staying in the scheme. 
However, as explained above, I dont think this is true  Mr R was able to meet his outgoings 
without touching his pension and all of his debts were due to be repaid by the time he 
retired. So, I dont think MWM shouldve advised Mr R to transfer out of the BSPS to repay 
affordable debts or to have flexibility that he didnt really need. And Mr Rs desire to access 
his pension doesnt outweigh MWMs responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and 
act in his best interest.
Concerns about life expectancy and death benefits
MWM says Mr R wanted to ensure he could pass on whatever was remaining of his pension 
to his wife and children upon his death. And it said Mr R was convinced that he was likely to 
die young, citing the nature of his work and his family history. MWM says this was a key 
reason for his decision to transfer out of the BSPS.
Mr R disputes this. He says it was MWM who emphasised that he could have a lower life 
expectancy and that it encouraged him to transfer out for this reason. Mr R says he was in 
good health then and still is now, and his father (whose health is mentioned in the 
paperwork) is also still alive.
Clearly there is discrepancy here. But I think the evidence from the time of the advice shows 
that Mr R was genuinely concerned about his mortality and thought he could have a shorter 
life expectancy because he did shift work. The meeting note from 12 December 2016 says 
that the adviser mentioned to Mr R that he (the adviser) had read a couple of articles about 
this, and that the adviser told Mr R the evidence suggested this could lead to a shorter life 
expectancy. So, it does appear that Mr Rs concerns were affirmed by MWM to some extent. 
Ive seen the articles that MWM has provided as part of its file here, and whilst they do link 
the shift work and a number of health conditions, I think some context needed to be provided 
to Mr R. The focus of the articles is on long-term night working, rather than general shift 
work. And they also pointed to lifestyle factors that were more prevalent amongst those 
workers, which might not have necessarily applied to Mr R. So, I dont think the articles 
ought to have played an important consideration in the advice process, and I think they could 
have an influence on Mr R  more so than they should have.
I accept that MWM wasnt qualified to challenge Mr Rs concerns on a medical basis. But it 
still needed to assess whether these concerns warranted taking the risks involved in 
transferring out of the BSPS. Mr R had told the adviser he was in good health, so I think that 
ought to have been the starting point here. And even though it was possible Mr R might not 
reach his life expectancy, I think the adviser ought to have emphasised to Mr R that it was 
also a possibility that he could exceed his life expectancy, and if he did so, hed need his 
pension to last for longer. If Mr R transferred out of the BSPS hed be relying on investment returns to meet his needs over the long-term. As demonstrated above, the investment 
returns required to provide the same benefits as Mr Rs existing scheme were not 
achievable, and Mr R would need to take substantially less income from his personal 
pension (and barely anything at all) from age 75 to make his funds last and still provide for a 
legacy.
Whether Mr R genuinely had a shorter life expectancy or not, MWM also still had to give 
Mr R an objective picture of the death benefits he already had and decide whether it was in 
Mr Rs best interest to give up his guaranteed pension in favour of the potential for greater 
death benefits through a personal pension.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course most people would like their loved ones 
to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a large sum to his 
family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr R, particularly in view of his 
concerns about his life expectancy. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to 
consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits 
because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think 
the potential for greater death benefits should have been prioritised over this. And I say 
potential, because the sum left on Mr Rs death was dependent on investment returns and if 
he lived a long life, there may not have been a large sum to pass on.
I also think the existing death benefits with the BSPS were underplayed. Mrs R would have 
received a guaranteed, escalating spouses pension for life, which would have been valuable 
if Mr R predeceased her. Furthermore, MWM wouldve known that Mr R had generous death 
in service cover through his employer if he died before retirement. He was also paying into 
his DCS and he wouldve been able to nominate his children as beneficiaries of this plan.
Mr R says he also had life assurance, which he told MWM about. But I cant see any 
reference to this in the paperwork from the time of the advice. So, I dont think it is fair for me 
to take this into account now. But even without taking this into account, Mr R had significant 
death benefits already available to him and his family. Again, this is something I think MWM 
recognised at the time  in the meeting notes from November 2016 I can see that it 
stressed how good the scheme was and its benefits. Given this, is difficult to see why 
MWM still advised Mr R to transfer out of it. 
The recommendation letter notes that Mr R was concerned that by staying in the BSPS, if he 
died, a pension would be payable to Mrs R, but when she died, nothing would be payable to 
his children. But if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think MWM shouldve instead advised him to take out extra life insurance. I appreciate Mr R 
already had some life insurance, but based on the information hes provided, this wouldve 
ended by the time he was 66. And if it was intended to provide for a legacy if he died after 
retirement, then whole of life cover wouldve been most appropriate.
The meeting note of 12 December 2016 mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured 
of £390,000  this was discounted by Mr R because of the cost (£552 per month). But I dont 
think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr R. Basing the quote on the 
transfer value of Mr Rs BSPS benefits essentially assumed that he would pass away on day 
one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr R wanted to leave whatever 
remained of his pension to his children, which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long 
life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask 
Mr R how much he would ideally like to leave to his children, and how much he could afford 
to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and wouldve 
met his objective of leaving a legacy without risking his retirement income.I also note that when it was pointed out to Mr R what level of pension hed be giving up if he 
transferred out of the BSPS (over £30,000 per year), he said this was too much income. If 
that was the case then there were other options available to Mr R which I think the adviser 
ought to have emphasised instead of accepting that this extra income wasnt needed. For 
example, Mr R couldve gifted the excess funds to his children, he couldve also saved them 
or reinvested them in a tax-efficient manner for the benefit of his children, for example, 
through a trust. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think MWM 
did enough to explore the alternatives available to Mr R to meet this objective. Instead MWM 
appears to have used Mr Rs mortality concerns to justify the transfer.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr R was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time were transferring 
out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard 
negative things about the PPF and he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr R was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer. However, it was MWMs obligation to give Mr R an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest.
Mr R was concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. But from what Ive seen, Mr Rs 
income needs wouldve still been met through the PPF, despite the 10% reduction in the 
starting benefits. So, I think MWM ought to have reassured Mr R that his scheme moving to 
the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought.
Summary
I accept that Mr R was motivated to transfer out of the BSPS when he met with MWM. And 
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to him. But MWM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interest.
According to the meeting notes from the time, MWM recognised that Mr R had no real 
knowledge or experience of investments, and that by transferring out, hed be going into a 
world completely unknown to him and taking on a lot of risk. It also acknowledged how good 
the schemes existing benefits were, and recognised that Mr R shouldnt transfer out just to 
clear some debts. Despite this, MWM recommended that Mr R should transfer out of the 
BSPS, knowing he would be worse off financially as a result.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I think MWM 
shouldve advised Mr R to remain in the BSPS.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against MWM's 
advice. MWM argues that this is the case; it says Mr R was determined to transfer out of the 
BSPS regardless of the advice he received. It says this is supported by the fact he turned down a higher transfer value soon after the advice was given to him, and that he wanted to 
sign transfer paperwork and take his TFC before the advice had been given.
As Ive said above, I accept that Mr R was motivated to transfer out of the BSPS when he 
approached MWM. But on balance I still think Mr R would have listened to MWM and 
followed its advice if it had recommended that he stay in the scheme. 
Mr R was an inexperienced investor, as MWM acknowledged, and this pension accounted 
for the majority of his and Mrs Rs retirement provision. So, if MWM had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interest, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns 
about his life expectancy were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing 
that a professional adviser, whose expertise hed sought out and was paying for, didnt think 
it was suitable for him or in his best interest. If the adviser had explained that Mr R could 
meet all of his objectives, that he could still provide for his family and enjoy the next 10 years 
of his life, without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight.
I appreciate that Mr R was given the option to delay his transfer and wait for a new revised 
transfer value (which was likely to be higher) following a review of the calculations used 
previously by the trustees. Mr R, however, rejected this and confirmed he wanted to proceed 
with the original transfer value. But I dont think that means Mr R would have acted against 
any advice he was given not to transfer out. I say this because I think Mr Rs insistence on 
proceeding was because MWM had already provided him with a positive recommendation to 
transfer out of the BSPS by this point. MWM had determined Mr R was likely to receive a 
lower pension in retirement but had still recommended he transfer out  it essentially gave a 
green light to Mr R to go ahead with his plans. So Im not really surprised that Mr R was 
keen to move forward there and then. 
I also dont think the fact that Mr R intended to repay his new mortgage using his TFC 
wouldve led him to act against the advice he ought to have been given. MWM says Mr R 
didnt take a fixed rate mortgage for this reason, but I still think he was able to afford the 
mortgage repayments if he didnt access his pension. And if MWM had given suitable advice 
and told Mr R that it did not recommend that he transfer his pension just to be able to repay 
this mortgage, Mr R couldve addressed this by re-mortgaging and taking a fixed rate if he 
wanted to ensure the repayments remained affordable. Overall, I dont think that Mr R 
wouldve pressed on with his plans if clear, suitable advice had been given and all of the 
options available to him had been set out in a balanced way.
In any event, if MWM had given Mr R suitable advice, that is, that he should remain in the 
BSPS and Mr R didnt accept this, it couldve treated him as an insistent client. But MWM 
didnt give Mr R suitable advice, so that point is ultimately moot. And as above, I dont think 
Mr R wouldve acted against the professional advice hed sought out.
If Mr R had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF 
or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. Mr R had no plans to retire early  he expected to 
continue working to his normal retirement age. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for early retirement. Also, 
Mr R was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of 
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr R chose 
to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2.So, overall, I think MWM should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it 
is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
MWM argues that Mr R should be compelled to purchase an annuity  it believes he would 
turn this down, thereby demonstrating his desire for flexibility. It is evident that Mr R will 
benefit from flexibility by virtue of the position hes in now, but that has only arisen because 
of the unsuitable advice. And ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be 
appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer 
advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for MWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would 
have most likely transferred into BSPS2, rather than to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, MWM should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
MWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
MWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date MWM receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MWM to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mercury Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Mercury Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Mercury 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Mercury Wealth Management Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mercury Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Mercury Wealth Management Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr R and 
his representative in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman