DRN-4399174
The complaint
The estate of Mr E complains about poor service from Co-op Funeral Plans Limited after Mr 
E died and his family sought to arrange his funeral. 
The estate is represented by Mr Es widow and executrix, Mrs E, who in turn is represented 
by her daughter, Miss E.
What happened
In summary, Mr E had a pre-paid funeral plan with Co-op. Sadly, in April 2023, Mr E died. 
His family contacted Co-op to arrange for Mr E to be taken into their care and for the 
preparations for his funeral to be made. 
Unfortunately, things didnt run smoothly. Mr Es family were unhappy with the service they 
received, including the time taken to collect Mr E from home, the attitude of Co-ops staff, the 
information they were given regarding Mr Es resting place, the wait to view Mr E at the 
chapel of rest and the overall length of time between Mr Es death and the funeral. And on 
the day of the funeral Mr Es family were particularly unhappy about inappropriate comments 
from the funeral director, learning that family members would not be able to carry the coffin 
and the wrong version of the eulogy being read out. 
Mr Es family subsequently complained. Co-op upheld parts of the complaint, acknowledging 
thered been errors and apologised for the issues the family had faced. By way of 
compensation, Co-op offered £250 for distress and inconvenience and a total of £670 for 
loss of value in the plan. 
Mr Es family werent satisfied with Co-ops response, so came to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator explained he was unable to comment on Co-ops offer of £250 as 
our rules only allow us to award compensation for distress and inconvenience to eligible 
complainants, not their representatives. However, he agreed Co-op hadnt delivered all of 
the elements of Mr Es plan adequately, resulting in a diminution in the value of Mr Es plan. 
He thought Co-ops offer of £670 for loss in value was a fair. 
Mr Es family remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review things and issue a 
final decision, so the complaint has come to me.
I understand Co-op has contacted Miss E to arrange payment of both the £250 
compensation and the £670 refund for loss of value, but Miss E has indicated she will wait 
for my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint to the extent that I require Co-op to pay the 
estate of Mr E £670 for loss of value in the funeral plan he bought. This is distinct from the 
£250 compensation offered separately to Mr Es family. 
I acknowledge the strength of feeling Mr Es family has regarding what happened, so I 
appreciate this news may be unwelcome for his relatives. Ill explain my reasons, focusing 
on the points and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a 
particular point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I 
dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
 
Firstly, for completeness, Ill reiterate what our investigator has explained regarding our 
powers to award compensation for distress and inconvenience. Our rules only allow us to 
award this type of compensation to eligible complainants themselves  thats Mr E in this 
case. The events complained of all happened after Mr E died, so didnt affect him personally. 
And Im afraid I cant consider the impact of Co-ops actions on Mr Es family members. I 
appreciate this is an unsatisfactory position for Mr Es relatives and Im sorry about that. But 
its not something I can change. 
I do, nevertheless, accept that Co-ops dealings with Mr Es family have fallen short of 
expectations and caused upset, stress and inconvenience at what was an already 
distressing and challenging time. Im pleased to see Co-op acknowledged there were 
failings, apologised and offered £250 compensation in recognition of the impact of those 
errors. 
But as well as the impact of Co-ops mistakes, there has been a financial loss to Mr Es 
estate. I agree that not all of the goods and services Mr E bought were delivered to a 
satisfactory quality and standard. This led to a diminution in the value of his plan. Amongst 
other things, Mr Es plan included elements covering Co-ops care in helping to tailor the 
funeral ceremony, looking after Mr E and providing services and support on the day of the 
funeral. Ive considered the errors made and where Co-op considers its delivery of the plan 
did not meet required standards. Overall, I think £670 fairly reflects the reduction in quality 
resulting from Co-ops failings in respect of these elements. I stress again that this financial 
loss is separate from the impact of those failings on Mr Es family, which is reflected in Co-
ops offer of £250.
Putting things right
To put things right Co-op should:
Pay the estate of Mr E £670 to reflect the diminution in value of Mr Es plan. 
In line with our usual approach, set out on our website, Co-op should add to the 
payment 8% per annum simple interest, from the date of Mr Es death  8 April 2023 
- until the date the payment is made. Ive determined this as a fair date from which to 
pay interest, as the redemption of Mr Es plan  commenced on the date of his death 
 was when the diminution in value began. 
If Co-op considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell the estate how much its taken off. It should provide a 
tax deduction certificate if requested, so that the estate can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to 
resolve the complaint as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman