DRN-1690498
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount offered by Admiral Insurance Company Limited for the 
value of his car after he claimed on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D's car was damaged in an accident. Admiral said because of the amount of damage, it 
wouldn't repair the car but would offer Mr D a cash payment. Following an inspection of the 
car Admiral offered Mr D £7,887. 
Mr D didn't think that was enough and his car was worth a lot more, he explained it was in 
showroom condition and had only had a full service a week earlier. After reviewing the 
matter Admiral increased it's offered to £7,900 and then to £8,160. Mr D still thought the 
amount offered was too low, so he brought his complaint to this service. In doing so he 
provided evidence in the form of adverts to show that he couldn't purchase a similar car for 
the amount offered by Admiral. 
Our investigator looked at the case and after looking at the motor trade guides said he didn't 
think Admiral needed to offer anything more. Mr D didn't agree so the case has come to me 
to decide. 
Further developments
I wrote to both parties to explain the investigator had used the incorrect valuations from the 
motor trade guides. The guides hadn't been adjusted to reflect the date of loss or the specific 
features the car had.
Having looked at the guides I said I thought the valuation of the car should be increased to 
£8,466 and asked if both parties would be happy to resolve the complaint on this basis. 
Mr D accepted the valuation but Admiral didn't respond, so I've now reconsidered the case in 
full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm upholding Mr D's complaint, I'll explain why.
The policy terms say that where Mr D's car is damaged as a result of an accident, 
Admiral will either pay for it to be repaired or pay a cash sum representing no more than the 
market value of the car.
Because there was significant damage to the car which would cost more to repair than 
its value, Admiral offered Mr D a cash sum. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
But what I now need to decide is what a fair payment would be. Valuing cars isn't an exact science and generally I would find the valuations given in motor 
trade guides, rather than adverts, to be the most persuasive. This is because they are based 
on research of likely selling prices, using advertised prices and auction prices to work out 
what the likely selling prices would be. 
The guides value the car at £7,800, £8,260 and £8,672. The lowest value guide hasn't made 
any adjustments for the optional extras Mr D's car had, so I'm inclined to discount that guide. 
The other two valuations are higher than the amount offered by Admiral so in this case, I 
think a fair approach would be to take an average of the two - £8,466. I think this amount 
fairly reflects the market value of the car and Mr D should be able to purchase a car of a 
similar specification for that amount. 
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr D the difference between the amount it has already paid and £8,466. 
It should add interest on that amount at 8% simple per annum from the date it originally 
made payment to the date it makes settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Mr D's complaint against Admiral Insurance Company Limited. Admiral should pay 
Mr D the difference between the amount it has already paid and £8,466. It should add 
interest on that amount at 8% simple per annum* from the date it originally made payment to 
the date it makes settlement.
*If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman