DRN-1734199
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy about the information they received from Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC (TPF) when they were remortgaging to a new lender. Theyre also unhappy 
with how their calls were handled.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The redemption statement issued by TPF was correct. Its normal industry practice for the 
statement not to include any payment not yet made, even if the payment is due before the 
account is set to be redeemed. Thats because the lender cant assume the payment will be 
successfully collected. Its also normal industry practice for the redemption statement to only 
be issued to the solicitor dealing with it, not the consumer. So TPF did nothing wrong in not 
sending a copy automatically to Mr and Mrs C.
I wouldnt expect TPF call handlers to tell Mr and Mrs C to deduct the amount of the direct 
debit from the redemption figure as that would leave them open to a complaint if, for some 
reason, an account had other/extra charges and it wasnt that simple to calculate. Its not 
their role to make assumptions like that. Redemption statements are formally requested by 
solicitors and generated by lenders computer systems. Solicitors deal with this situation all 
the time (where a payment is due to be collected by direct debit on the day the mortgage is 
set to be redeemed) so theyre well-placed to explain to the customer what needs to happen. 
That is, the solicitor contacts the lender on the day of redemption to get an up to date 
redemption figure.
Its not in dispute that some of the calls werent handled well, and for that TPF has offered 
£175 compensation. Having listened to the calls and considered the submissions of both 
sides Im satisfied thats a fair offer and in line with what I would have awarded had that offer 
not already have been made.
Mr and Mrs C have said My mortgage advisor arranged for me to borrow an extra £1000 
taking it to £145,500.00 on the back of these conversations so there would not be a shortfall, 
which meant me having to pay back more monthly and more interest over the span of the 
mortgage.
But Mr and Mrs C shouldnt have to pay that extra amount back (plus interest) over the span 
of the mortgage. Thats because normally theyd have been able to simply pay the extra 
amount that wasnt needed to redeem the TPF mortgage to the new lender to reduce the 
new mortgage immediately.
In any event, the first call with TPF was on 17 September. But Mr and Mrs C have sent us a 
letter they received from their solicitor dated 13 September and in that it shows the new 
mortgage theyre taking out is £145,500. So, its clear from this that Mr and Mrs C had 
already decided to borrow £145,500 before they spoke to TPF and therefore the decision to 
increase their borrowing cant have had anything to do with the phone calls in question.
TPF has admitted it could have handled the phone calls better and I agree with that (and 
with the compensation offered for it). But thats all TPF did wrong here, so I dont uphold the 
rest of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and I make no further order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Tesco Personal Finance PLC made a 
fair offer of compensation in its response to the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman