DRN-3755747
The complaint
Mr T complains the interest rate applicable to his J D Williams & Company Limited catalogue 
shopping account is higher than agreed.
What happened
Mr T was approved for a catalogue shopping account with J D Williams in July 2020. 
Mr T says the account was opened with an introductory rate of 0% which was in place for a 
number of months, after which time the interest rate would revert to Mr Ts approved rate as 
per his credit agreement. 
Mr T complained to J D Williams around July 2022. He said when his introductory rate ended 
and it applied the approved rate from account opening, it was higher than he expected. And 
in September 2021 J D Williams increased the rate applicable to Mr Ts account. 
J D Williams didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that while it couldnt provide Mr T with the 
exact credit agreement he completed detailing the applicable rate, it was satisfied it had 
reasonably made Mr T aware of the rate that would be applicable after the introductory offer 
ended. It also said further documentation was sent to Mr T during the course of his account 
which confirmed the applicable rate.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ts complaint and didnt uphold it. He considered J D Williams 
did make Mr T aware of the interest rate that would be applicable to his account, once the 
initial introductory rate ended. He said this because he considered, based on the evidence 
he had, that J D Williams had reasonably made Mr T aware via a number of means of 
correspondence, of the interest rate that would apply to his account, once the initial period 
ended; and reasonably made his aware when the rate was later increased.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators outcome. He said J D Williams hadnt provided him 
with the credit agreement detailing the interest rate that would be applied to his account after 
the interest free period ended; and the evidence provided to date didnt confirm hed been 
made aware of the later rate increase. 
Mr T asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr T.
The dispute here is that Mr T knew the initial interest free rate was an introductory offer, and 
that a higher rate would be applied to his account once this expired. But Mr T says that he 
thinks the rate that was applied to his account was higher than agreed, and that J D Williams 
increased his rate at a later point without advising him of this increase. 
J D Williams hasnt been able to provide us with Mr Ts credit agreement, which would 
confirm the interest rate applicable to his account. But it has provided us with a sample 
agreement, which shows that the interest rate would have been set out to Mr T. It has also 
provided sample documents showing that Mr T would have been made aware that his 
introductory rate was coming to an end, and that the approved rate at account opening 
would apply. 
Mr T hasnt been able to provide us with any documentation from account opening to 
support his argument, but has provided us with statements from August and September 
2021, around a year after the account was opened, showing the increase in rate at this time. 
Where the evidence is disputed, and is incomplete or inconclusive as it is here, Ive reached 
my decision based on what I consider, on balance, was more likely to have happened in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has commented that the representative rate J D Williams advertised on its website was 
around 34.9%, but that the rate applied to his account after the introductory offer ended was 
around 59%. Hes said he thinks the rate applied to his account after the introductory rate 
ended was higher than that approved within his credit agreement. 
As Mr T has said, the 34.9% he has quoted is a representative rate, and will not be approved 
to all individuals who apply for the credit. J D Williams, like all credit providers, will take 
account of a number of factors when deciding who and under what terms to offer individuals 
credit, including at what rate. And, it only needs to approve the representative rate to at least 
51% of the individuals provided with the credit. So, its not unreasonable to suggest that 
Mr Ts rate may have been higher than the representative one J D Williams advertised, and 
that Mr T remembers.
Its clear that Mr T was receiving monthly statements, and from the statements hes provided 
that these included the interest rate applicable to his account. So, if Mr T had concerns with 
the interest rate applied to his account after the introductory rate ended, around October 
2020, I would have expected him to have raised his concerns with J D Williams around that 
time, rather than nearly two years later. 
In addition to this, Mr T would have needed to electronically sign the credit agreement at 
account opening, to confirm he accepted the terms and conditions of the account being 
provided, including the applicable interest rate. The information within the credit agreement 
would have been relevant only to Mr Ts credit account; so on balance, I cant conclude that 
J D Williams would likely have applied any other rate to Mr Ts account other than the rate 
that had been agreed within his contract. 
So, I consider, on balance and in the absence of any contradictory information, it more likely 
that the interest rate that was applied to Mr Ts account after the introductory rate expired 
was the rate approved and accepted by Mr T within his credit agreement. 
J D Williams has confirmed that Mr Ts interest rate was increased in September 2021, and 
this correlates with the statements hes sent us. J D Williams has said it provided Mr T with 
30 days notice of the increase in interest rate, in line with the conditions of his account. It 
has provided a copy of a sample letter that would have been sent to Mr T. On balance, I 
consider it more likely this notice was sent to Mr T, in line with J D Williams regulatory 
obligations to inform its customers of such events. As such, I therefore consider J D Williams reasonably made Mr T aware of the September 2021 interest rate increase in line with the 
conditions of his account.
So, based on the evidence I have, and my findings above, I cant safely conclude J D 
Williams has made an error in relation to the interest rate applied to Mr Ts account; and 
therefore, I dont consider it needs to take any further action in resolution of this complaint. 
I would, however, remind J D Williams of its obligations to treat Mr T fairly when collecting 
repayment of any outstanding balance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about 
J D Williams & Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman