DRN-2719604
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have dealt with 
repairs to his car following an accident.
  
What happened
Mr W was involved in accident in June 2020. His car is leased and is insured with RSA. Mr 
W made a claim on his policy and RSA instructed their approved garage to inspect the car 
and carry out the repairs. The garage prepared a report which noted, amongst other things, 
damage to the front and rear passenger side alloy wheels. It also included photos taken 
before the repair. Photos were also taken after the repairs were carried out.
When the car was returned to Mr W in July 2020 he noted that there was damage to one of 
the alloy wheels and the dust cap was missing. He also said there were scratches to the 
armrest and the rear-view mirror which were not present before the car went to the garage. 
Mr W reported this to RSA and sent photos of all the damage. He then returned to the 
garage with his car some weeks later for them to inspect it. 
RSA investigated the complaint. The garage says that the original damage to the alloy 
wheels was repaired and that no damage was present when the car was returned to Mr W. 
They provided photographs showing the tyres before and after the repairs. They also say 
that the internal damage was only reported some two months after the car was returned to 
Mr W and they do not accept responsibility for it.
Mr W was not happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into 
the matter. She said that she thought the damage to the passenger side alloy wheels could 
have been caused by a separate incident which Mr W said had occurred after the car was 
returned to him by RSA. She did not think RSA could be held responsible for the damaged 
alloy wheels. She said that the interior scratches were not seen on the photos taken by the 
garage before the repairs and she thought these were the responsibility of RSA. She said 
that RSA should repair these and pay Mr W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
RSA did not agree with this. They said that the policy did not cover interior damage. They 
also made enquiries to confirm that Mr W would not lose out financially if he were to return 
the leased car with the internal scratches. Mr W said that he had decided not to return the 
car and was not happy that the alloy wheels were not being repaired. He asked for the 
matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA instructed their approved garage to carry out Mr Ws repairs. As they were instructed by 
RSA, they are responsible for the repairs that are carried out. If they are not of a satisfactory 
standard, or further damage was caused during the repairs, I would expect RSA to put it 
right.
RSA have said that the insurance policy does not include internal damage. I have looked at 
the policy document. In part 2 section 1.3 it says that RSA will not cover loss or damage to 
trim and upholstery in the Vehicle, unless this arises from an incident which requires 
bodywork repair and/or mechanical repair to the Vehicle. I agree that the internal damage 
was not caused in the accident, but the issue is whether it was caused by the garage whilst 
they were carrying out the repairs. If it was, as Ive said above, RSA should put it right. 
Alloy wheels
I have considered the garages report which is in essence a list of what they did and the 
parts they used, plus photos of the car before the repairs. I can see the damage to the alloy 
wheels in the photos. I can also see in the report that the parts used to carry out the repairs 
included front and rear passenger side wheels. 
I have also seen photos taken after the repairs were completed. These show the new alloys 
in place. I have carefully considered these photos and am satisfied that these show the 
repairs to the alloys were done and that there was no damage at that point. 
RSA say that within a couple of hours of the repairs being completed, the car was delivered 
back to Mr W. It was driven by a member of staff from the garage with another member of 
staff following behind. I can see from RSAs case notes that the driver following has 
confirmed that there were no incidents during the journey and no damage was caused to the 
car on the journey to Mr Ws house. 
Mr W was not present when the car was returned, so his mother signed the paperwork. I 
have not seen this paperwork, but I understand it contained a condition report. Mr W says, 
however, that his mother was not asked to inspect the car and was shielding so was unlikely 
to have spent much time with the driver in any event. I accept, therefore, that if there was 
damage to the car it was unlikely to have been noticed by Mr W or his mother immediately 
upon return. 
Mr W says that he thinks he noticed the damage to the alloy wheels the evening the car was 
returned. He did not immediately report this to RSA or the garage but reported it about a 
week later when he first got in the car after its return. It was then that he noticed the damage 
to the interior. He took photos of the damage. He cannot be sure when he took these photos 
but believes that it was on the same day that he made the complaint to RSA. 
Mr W has provided additional information in relation to the separate incident which our 
investigator had considered could be a cause of the damage to the alloy wheels. He says 
this incident was after he had reported the damage to RSA. He also says the alloy wheels 
were not damaged in this incident. I have considered Mr Ws account of this incident and 
accept that the damage to the alloys occurred before this incident, and do not consider this 
second incident to be relevant. 
I have to consider all the evidence and make my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Having looked at Mr Ws photos of the alloy wheels, there clearly is damage to them and I 
can see that this is different to the original damage that was repaired. So, somewhere 
between the car being repaired and Mr W noticing the damage, the damage occurred. Mr W 
believes it was caused when the car was being returned to him. However, I have seen 
nothing to support this. The window of opportunity for the damage to have been caused by 
the garage is small as the car was returned shortly after repair and the garage have 
accounted for its movements during the return journey. Therefore, I dont think I can fairly say that they were responsible. I appreciate that the opportunity for someone else to have 
caused the damage is also small, but I am not satisfied on the evidence I have seen that the 
garage is to blame.
I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint. I know that Mr W will be disappointed by 
this but I hope he understands my reasons.
Internal damage
The report prepared by the garage included photos of the car before the repairs were carried 
out. From these photos I can see that there was no scratch to the interior armrest before the 
repairs. I cannot see any photos in the report showing the rear-view mirror. The garage did 
not take any photos of the interior of the car after the repairs.
When Mr W complained to RSA, he attached photos of the damage and I can see from 
these that there are scratches to the rear-view mirror and armrest. Mr W says these photos 
were taken when he first got into the car which was about a week after it was returned. He 
says he noticed them straightaway and reported it. One of the reasons the garage gave for 
not accepting the internal damage was that it was not reported until about two months after 
the car was returned. I do not accept this. I can see that Mr W emailed RSA on 29 July 2020 
attaching photos of the internal scratches. This was a week after the car was returned to 
him. Due to ill-health Mr W did not manage to get his car back to the garage for them to 
inspect it for a couple of months, but the damage had already been reported to RSA before 
then.
As with the alloy wheels I have to make my decision based on the evidence I have seen. I 
accept that the scratch to the armrest was not present before the repairs were carried out as 
I can see this from the photos. I have not, however, seen photos of the rear-view mirror 
before the repairs but the garage cannot say that the scratch was already there. Mr W is 
clear that it wasnt. I therefore accept Mr Ws evidence. On balance, I am satisfied that 
neither of the scratches were present before the repairs. 
I am also satisfied that the scratches were present when Mr W first looked inside the vehicle. 
Garage staff went inside the vehicle whilst the car was at the garage and during its return 
journey to Mr W. As no one else had been inside, I can only conclude that the scratches 
were caused by the garage.
Putting things right
I now need to consider how to put things right. Mr W had indicated at one point that he may 
return the car to the leasing company. RSA confirmed with the leasing company that Mr W 
would not lose out financially if he were to return the car now to them with the scratches. Mr 
W was, however, informed by the leasing company that he will lose his good condition bonus 
due to the damage. In any event, Mr W has decided that he does not wish to return the car 
and therefore I think it is fair that RSA should put right the damage that was caused. In 
certain circumstances Mr W may also be given the option to buy the car at the end of the 
lease, and therefore the condition of the car will be important to him. Regardless of whether 
Mr W is losing out financially, his car has been damaged and I think Mr W should be put 
back into the position he would have been in if RSA had not made a mistake. The scratches 
to the interior of the car should therefore be repaired.
I also agree with our investigator that Mr W should be awarded £100 compensation. The 
damage to the interior of the car was caused at a time when Mr W was suffering from ill 
health and this must have caused him added distress and inconvenience. I think an award of 
£100 is fair.  
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold the complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to repair the scratches to the armrest and rear-view mirror in the interior of Mr 
Ws car. I also award Mr W £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman