DRN-4431796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way that TICORP Ltd administered their single trip travel 
insurance policy.
Avanti is a trading name as TICORP. So Ive referred to Avanti throughout.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a brief 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs S booked a holiday abroad in December 2020. They were due to travel in 
September 2021. On 12 May 2021, they took out a single trip travel insurance policy online 
through Avanti.
Unfortunately, a few weeks later, Mr and Mrs S close relative was diagnosed with lung
cancer and given a terminal prognosis. As the balance of the trip was nearly due, in June
2021, Mr and Mrs S let Avanti know about their relatives diagnosis. They asked whether
theyd be able to make a claim. Avanti told Mr and Mrs S that they might be able to make a
cancellation claim, but that claims would need to be assessed by the insurers claims team.
Mr and Mrs S opted not to cancel their trip at that point.
Due to ongoing restrictions due to Covid-19, in August 2021, Mr and Mrs S decided to
reschedule their trip for March 2022. They contacted Avanti to amend their trip dates on the
policy. At this point, they asked Avanti to post a copy of the policy terms and conditions to
them.
Mr and Mrs S flew abroad as planned. However, sadly, three days into their holiday, their
close relative passed away. So Mr and Mrs S cut short their trip, returned to the UK and
made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the curtailment of
the trip. The insurer turned down Mr and Mrs S claim.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the way Avanti had sold and administered their policy. 
They said that Avanti hadnt helped them when they were considering whether to make a
claim on the policy. And they said that it hadnt posted their policy documents, despite asking
Avanti to send them by post. They said this meant they hadnt been aware of the terms the
insurer had relied on to turn down their claim. So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. She noted that on
the day Mr and Mrs S had asked for the policy documents to be posted, Avanti had made a
note on the system to request that this was done. So even if Mr and Mrs S hadnt received
the postal documents, she thought it was most likely that Avanti had sent them.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 October 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
plan to uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. I said:
First, Id like to offer Mr and Mrs S my sincere condolences for their sad loss. Id also like to
reassure them that while Ive summarised the background to their complaint and their
submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. Within this decision
though, I havent commented on each point theyve raised and nor do our rules require me
to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
I must make clear the parameters of this decision. This complaint is about the actions of
Avanti, as the seller of Mr and Mrs S policy. I will be considering whether I think Avanti sold
and administered the policy fairly. Avanti wasnt responsible for the way the policy was
drafted or for the claim assessment and decision to decline the claim. That was down to the
policy underwriter. Ive considered a complaint about the underwriter separately.
Avanti says that Mr and Mrs S took out the policy online. This means I dont think its likely
that Avanti gave Mr and Mrs S any advice as to whether or not to take out the policy, so I
dont think it needed to check whether the policy was suitable for them. But Avanti did need
to give Mr and Mrs S enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so
that they could decide if it was right for them.
By Mr and Mrs S account, it seems they took out the Avanti policy because they needed a
higher level of cover than their existing policy provided. So it seems Avanti made the
relevant limits clear. And I can see that Mr and Mrs S declared Mr S medical conditions
during the sale, so it seems most likely that Avanti highlighted the need for a policyholder to
declare their own medical conditions.
Avanti has provided evidence which shows that when they took out the policy, Mr and Mrs S
asked for their policy documents to be emailed to them. Its told us that Mr and Mrs S
downloaded the documents on 17 June 2021. Avantis notes suggest Mr and Mrs S called it
on that day to query their cover. I think then that its more likely than not that Avanti met its
responsibility to ensure Mr and Mrs S were provided a copy of the policy documentation and
that Mr and Mrs S had been able to access it.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs S told Avanti about their relatives prognosis and that they were
considering next steps and whether or not to cancel their holiday ahead of paying the
balance. I appreciate they feel that Avanti wasnt helpful and that it didnt do everything it
could have done to assist them. Ive thought about this carefully.
As Avanti isnt the policy underwriter, it isnt regulated or authorised to decide or assess
claims. I think it was appropriate for Avanti to direct Mr and Mrs S to speak with the insurer
to discuss their situation and cover. I also dont think it was unreasonable for Avanti to
explain that claims were assessed on their own facts and terms.
With that said, Ive listened to a call between Mrs S and Avanti which took place on 27
August 2021. During that call, Mrs S requested to amend the policy dates, but she also
referred to her relatives diagnosis and asked about the impact on her cover. While at the
end of the call, the call handler did refer to the general policy exclusions, I do think Mrs S
was likely left with an impression that as her relative wasnt insured, their condition wouldnt
affect the cover. Technically, this wasnt wrong, as Mr and Mrs S own, individual cover
terms werent affected. But it might have been helpful if the call handler had suggested that
Mrs S speak to the insurer to check whether there might be any impact on their ability to
claim for anything related to their relatives condition.
So Ive gone on to think if this caused Mr and Mrs S to lose out. And I dont think I can fairly
say it did. Even if Mr and Mrs S had been directed to the insurer and told they wouldnt be
covered for claims related to their relatives condition, most, if not all, travel insurance
policies exclude the pre-existing conditions of relatives. That means I dont think Mr and Mrs
S wouldve been able to find an alternative policy that would have covered the eventualsituation they found themselves in in any event. And Im mindful that Mr and Mrs S told us
that they didnt think their relatives illness would lead to a claim  as theyd believed their
relative had a prognosis of around a year. I think its most likely then that they would have
opted to keep their existing policy in place.
Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that Avanti failed to send them the policy documents by post,
despite their request. Theyve told us that they found it difficult to read the online documents.
I acknowledge that Mrs S did clearly ask Avanti to send the documents out by post when the
dates were changed on 27 August 2021. Unfortunately, Avanti cant provide us with an
actual copy of the letter or a full record of the documents being posted. But, it has been able
to provide us with an electronic note, dated 27 August 2021, the same day the postal
request was made. This says: RESEND POSTAGE  All policy documents (Standard
postage). In my view, this is persuasive evidence that the request was noted and most likely
actioned. And, on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not that Avanti did
send the policy documents by post  even if they werent received. Id add too, that as Ive
set out above, its appears most likely that Mr and Mrs S had already received their
documents online.
Overall, in the round, I think Avanti did meet its policy obligations when it sold and
administered Mr and Mrs S policy. And I dont find it acted unreasonably when it didnt
confirm whether or not a claim would be covered, as it wasnt responsible for doing so or
authorised to do. As such, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S position, I currently think
Avanti treated them fairly.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Avanti didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs S said they were extremely disappointed by my provisional findings. They said 
they had no new evidence and would await the final decision. They told us they knew and 
expected that the big corporations would win against them, as their wordy policies set out to 
deceive and confuse. They felt it would be nice if insurance companies simplified their 
policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any new substantive evidence or comments, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings.
I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs S that I have considered their complaint independently 
and impartially. I do appreciate how disappointed they are with my decision, but I hope I 
have clearly explained the reasons why I dont think Avanti treated them unfairly. I would add 
too that as an insurance broker, Avanti isnt responsible for the way an insurance policy is 
drafted or the terms of the insurance contract. Thats the responsibility of the underwriter. 
Avantis role was to sell the policy in line with the regulators rules and Ive explained above 
why I think it met its regulatory obligations. 
Overall, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman