DRN-2552653
The complaint
 Mr C is represented. He says an Appointed Representative (AR) of The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited (TTPL) gave him unsuitable advice in 2016 to switch his Personal 
Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and recommended the SIPPs 
unsuitable underlying investment in the Organic Defensive Portfolio (ODP).
What happened
Mrs Cs representative says the ARs advice was unsuitable mainly because he was 63 
years old at the time of advice, he was two years away from retirement and the 
recommended switch (and underlying SIPP investments) subjected him, his retirement and 
his pension to an unnecessary and unsuitable exposure to high risks for which he lacked the 
risk appetite and capacity for loss. The representative also says:
Mr C was not a sophisticated investor. He engaged with the AR through a free 
pension review offer. He earned around £43,000 per year and had modest savings in 
addition to his Occupational Pension (OP) and PP.
Part of his objective, which he confirmed to the AR, was to access his PP in 2018 for 
a specific expenditure.
He had a low attitude to risk (ATR)  he specifically did not want to put his pension 
capital at risk  and his zero capacity for loss was influenced by his proximity to 
retirement and the need to ensure he retained value in his pension funds.
The SIPPs investment in a UCITS and Bond fund (the bond fund), within the ODP, 
caused exposure to unsuitable high risk bonds and alternative investments; it offered 
no regulatory compensation protection; it had a term of five years which conflicted 
with Mr Cs retirement (and need for his pension funds) in two years; it included an 
early exit charge; and it caused exposure to illiquidity risks (which became a reality in 
2018 when the associated parent fund was suspended, could not be valued and has 
since been illiquid).
The same as above applies to the SIPPs investment in the ODPs Organic 
Long/Short Alpha fund (the alpha fund).
The switch and the SIPPs underlying investments were unsuitable for Mr C. The 
former was a move from a mainstream pension to a SIPP that was invested 
unsuitably, and the latter lacked diversification and were non-standard investments.
TTPL disputes the complaint. It says the ODP invested 45% in the bond fund, 31% in 
Government Bonds, 13.5% in the alpha fund, 7% in index trackers funds and 3.5% in other 
funds; as an overall portfolio the ODP was suitable for Mr C; the bond fund held listed 
corporate bonds (which, in 2017, were high grade corporate bonds) and the UCITS funds 
within it were regulated at European level and could be sold to retail clients like Mr C; the 
suitability letter issued to Mr C highlighted the risks associated with the investments 
(including credit risks, currency risks and the risks in emerging markets); in contrast to his 
present claim that he wanted to take no risks, in the risk questionnaire Mr C completed at the 
time of advice he accepted that he had to take some risk with his pension pot; there is no 
evidence of the exit charges alleged in the complaint; Organic Investment Management 
(OIM) which managed Mr Cs ODP investments on a discretionary basis concealed matters 
that led to the suspension of funds and misrepresented the funds, but the AR was unaware 
of and remote to this at the relevant time; and the five years term matched Mr Cs objective 
to drawdown throughout his retirement (not to drawdown in full in 2018).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. His main findings were as follows:
At the time of advice, Mr C and his wife had joint savings of £8,000; his wife had 
neither a PP nor an OP; his PP was invested in a broadly cautious portfolio; it was 
his intention to drawdown a significant part of the PP in 2018 for the planned 
expenditure (and to leave the rest invested); and his ATR was assessed at a very low 
level, with a statement in the risk assessment saying  This is a very low score, 
lower than 96% of all scores .
The suitability report given to Mr C says OIMs overall charges were 0.9% per year; 
the advisers initial charge was 3%; and the advisers ongoing charge was 0.65%.
A December 2016 statement shows that 45% of Mr Cs ODP was invested in the 
bond fund at the time and 5% was invested in the alpha fund; the former had ongoing 
charges of 1.92%, was ranked as five out of seven in terms of risk and, according to 
its factsheet, invested more than half of its money in below investment grade or 
unrated fixed interest securities.
The ODP had been authorised in January 2016 so it was an untested portfolio and 
OIM was essentially an untested manager. In addition, the ARs failure to provide 
ongoing advice to Mr C  for which he was paid  meant an opportunity to foresee 
problems with OIM/the ODP in December 2016 before those problems began to take 
hold around July 2017 was missed. Overall the advice to Mr C was unsuitable and he 
should be compensated for that (including a payment of £300 for the trouble and 
upset the matter has caused him.
TTPL disagreed with this outcome and mainly said:
The ODP had indeed been authorised in January 2016, so it accepts that when it 
was recommended to Mr C thereafter, in the same year, it was an untested fund. 
However, it was designed for low ATRs like his and its factsheet, which the AR 
reasonably relied upon, confirmed that its components were 41.50% corporate 
bonds, 34% government bonds and 8% equities. 
In terms of ongoing advice, the AR conducted an annual review with Mr C in 
September 2017 which identified no changes in his profile and no issues with the 
valuations in his ODP. Furthermore, he took his tax-free lump sum in November 
2017. Valuation of his ODP was obtained again on 7 December 2018 shortly before 
his next planned annual review, however before that could happen, and on 13 
December 2018, he was informed about the funds suspension. 
There is evidence showing that the ARs advice relied, in good faith, on what OIM 
had presented about the funds. The regulators suspension of the funds and its 
associated enquiries uncovered information that shows the AR was misled by OIM. 
There is also evidence that suggests the regulator should have alerted the public, or 
at least advisers, of its concerns before it became too late.
The AR was associated with Tavistock Financial Ltd between 16 December 2015 
and 26 October 2017 (the same date this particular firm was sold to a third party), so 
any loss incurred by Mr C after the latter date is outside TTPLs responsibility. 
The investigator responded to the points made by TTPL, but he did not change his view. The 
matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within the regulators Principles for Businesses, Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct its 
business with due skill, care and diligence; Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems; and Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Within the regulators  Conduct of Business  (COBS) rules, COBS 2.1.1R requires a firm to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients and 
in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client; and within which 
COBS 9.2.1R sets out a firms obligation to assess the suitability of investments 
recommended to its clients. 
In 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension switching. It highlighted four key 
issues it thought should be focussed on  Charges (has the consumer been switched to a 
pension that is more expensive than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without 
good reason?); Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason?); Risk  (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded ATR and personal circumstances?); Ongoing fund management (has the 
consumer switched into a pension with a need for ongoing investment reviews, but this was 
not explained, offered or put in place?)
In 2013 and 2014, the regulators pensions related industry alert to firms included the 
following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages or 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The above were issued before the ARs advice to Mr C in 2016. The AR needed to obtain 
relevant information about Mr Cs profile and, given that it considered a pension switch for 
him, it was also obliged to address key and unavoidable questions (as outlined in the 2009 
checklist) related to his profile, circumstances and objective at the time. The switch had to be 
in his best interests. The combination of the switch and the SIPP had to be worth the 
movement away from the PP and should have had meaningful prospects of being better 
than the PP, otherwise there would arguably have been no point in switching and no 
justification in incurring costs associated with the switching process  aside from any 
increase in costs with the SIPPThe switch was not suitable for Mr C. The AR approached the matter jointly considering the 
switch and the proposal of new underlying investments for the SIPP. Evidence of his 
assessments and analysis shows this. 
A switch analysis document completed by the AR holds notable evidence. Within it, he 
acknowledges the risk that the existing PP could outperform the alternative he was due to 
recommend  whilst also saying he considered it unlikely that the PPs performance would 
match Mr Cs retirement goals. I consider the former insightful and the latter lacking in merit. 
The former suggests that the switch/SIPP/ODP recommendation was not expected, on 
balance, to hold better prospects for Mr C than his PP. The lack of track record for the ODP, 
which I address further below, added to this. 
The ARs view on the prospects of the PP meeting Mr Cs goals appears to be defeated by 
evidence that Mr Cs immediate objective for a significant part of the PP was his planned 
expenditure two years on from 2016 and his longer-term objective was to leave the 
remainder invested. Evidence of this includes the ARs express acknowledgment of the 
former in the suitability report he prepared. I have not seen evidence that the AR assessed 
the PPs likelihood to meet Mr Cs objectives in this context. Indeed, TTPL has argued the 
opposite and has referred to drawing down on the pension throughout retirement  not 
liquidating a lump sum (as Mr C appears to have done after the switch) and leaving the 
remainder invested  whilst, it appears, Mr C sought to rely on his OP and state pension for 
part of his retirement income needs.
The same switch analysis document features one, three and five years worth of 
performance data for the underlying funds in the PP  which, broadly, over three and five 
years had performed positively. This was replicated in the suitability report sent to Mr C, in 
which the AR acknowledged the relatively impressive performance the underlying funds had 
achieved over the preceding one, three and five years  for example, the report showed that 
over the previous five years one of the five underlying funds had appreciated by over 35%, 
another by almost 40% and another by 50%. In contrast, both the switch analysis document 
and the suitability report expressly confirm that no performance data was available for the 
proposed ODP. No competent comparison analysis was conducted  and, arguably, none 
could be conducted  because, as TTPL concedes, the ODP was an untested fund at the 
time and was one for which the AR had no past performance history. 
As noted above, the regulators guidance was that if a firm did not  fully understand the 
underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer 
advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to assess suitability of the 
transaction as a whole. On balance, I consider that the AR (and TTPL) was in this position 
in 2016 and in relation to Mr Cs case. He did not have enough information about the ODP 
(in terms of performance and prospects) to fully understand it, so it (the ODP) and the switch 
should never have been recommended to Mr C. I am satisfied that the unsuitability of the 
SIPP switch, in this context, is enough to uphold Mr Cs complaint. In simple terms, he never 
should have been advised to switch out of the PP without a meaningful prospect of a better 
alternative  and no such prospect existed at the time of advice. 
I do not consider that merit could still be found in the ODP based on its factsheet(s). Mr C 
was an investor already invested in a PP with tested underlying investments. The ODPs 
factsheet(s), alone, did not establish merit in the notion that it was better for him than the 
investments in his PP  especially as the ARs note (mentioned above) shows he thought 
there was a risk the opposite would be the case. It would be a compelling argument to say 
recommendation of the ODP was inherently speculative, given the absence of performance 
history (and the absence of a credible basis to judge prospects), and if that was the case  
as it appears to have been  then such speculation was a direct mismatch to what appears 
to have been an ultra cautious ATR held by Mr C. I echo the investigators finding in this respect and his reference to the contents of the risk assessment document which referred to 
Mr C having a very low ATR.
It should also be noted that even with the best intentions the SIPP/ODP arrangement was 
arguably unlikely to produce better performance than the PP. There is a widely recognised 
co-relation between risk and reward in investments  the idea being, if higher rewards are 
sought, that will usually need a higher exposure to risk. In Mr Cs case, his ATR was very 
low/cautious so the ODP would have had to reflect this in order to be and remain suitable 
and if it did, then higher rewards would arguably have been unlikely. 
The ARs (and therefore TTPLs) culpability in this matter is what I have addressed above  
that is, the unsuitable recommendation of the SIPP switch without credible grounds to do so. 
I am not persuaded by TTPLs argument that the AR should be excused for such a 
recommendation because it was misled by the OIM. Whether (or not) there is truth in that, 
the point is that at the outset the AR did not have enough information, could not conduct 
enough of an analysis and comparison and did not have sufficiently credible outputs from 
any such analysis and comparison to justify the recommendation as a reasonable and 
suitable one.
The ARs (and therefore TTPLs) culpability in this matter arises from the unsuitable 
recommendation at the outset, in 2016, when it as an AR for TTPL. It does not matter that 
the AR arrangement with TTPL subsequently ended. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied 
that TTPLs responsibility for the matter begins from the ARs recommendation and 
continues until the date of settlement.
I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr C as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable advice and not conducted the switch to the SIPP. On balance, I consider that 
he would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have 
done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances at the time of advice.
Mr C is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with TTPL to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, which it does not 
already have.
What must TTPL do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, TTPL must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to him in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
TTPL is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, 
it must tell Mr C the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to 
him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
If Mr C had Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) with his PP, this must be reflected by 
TTPL in the redress to him, by seeking and applying the current annuity rate which 
can be obtainable now for an annuity on the same terms as the GAR, if any, 
provides.
Pay Mr C £300 for the trouble and upset caused to him. I agree with the 
investigators proposal in this respect.
If theres a problem closing the SIPP, as can happen, it will be necessary for TTPL to 
cover five years of the SIPPs fees, dependent on whether (or not) Mr C chooses to 
keep it operating.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr C in a clear and simple format. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Cs
Pointon 
York 
SIPPstill 
existsFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index (prior 
to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index); for 
the other half: the 
Bank of England 
average return from 
fixed rate bonds date of 
switch to 
the 
Pointon 
York SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to TTPL taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes to. If that is not possible then 
TTPL may request an undertaking from Mr C  to be drawn up at TTPLs expense  that he 
repays to TTPL any amount he may receive from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in 
future.fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, TTPL should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if TTPL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr C had a low-level ATR for his pension fund.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that Mr Cs profile was in between both benchmarks, in the sense that he 
was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his objective. The 50/50 
combination above would reasonably put him into that position and it broadly reflects 
the sort of return he could have obtained from pension investments suited to his 
profile, but for the unsuitable advice he received from the AR.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I order The Tavistock Partnership 
Limited to calculate and pay him compensation as set out above and to provide him with a 
calculation of compensation in a clear and simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman