DRN-2946655
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt 
with its request to borrow funds under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme 
and Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
 
What happened
S wanted to apply for a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) and contacted 
Barclays about this on 26 March 2020, a few days after the Scheme was launched. 
When speaking to a Barclays adviser, Mr and Mrs B explained that they were looking to 
borrow £36,000 under the CBIL Scheme. The adviser said that they could only process an 
application of up to £25,000  loans for larger amounts were dealt with by a different 
department, and someone would have to call Mr and Mrs B back separately. Mr B asked if 
they could submit an application for the £25,000, and then arrange to borrow the further 
amount when receiving a call back. Barclays agreed and an application was started.
During the application, there was an issue with the account mandate for S. So Mr and Mrs B 
were transferred to a different department to update some of the information held by the 
bank. The issue was rectified and the application proceeded.
It transpired that the bank had taken Mr and Mrs B through an application for a standard 
business loan, rather than a CBIL. On realising this, Mr and Mrs B cancelled the application 
as they only wanted a CBIL and had thought thats what theyd applied for. So matters were 
left on the basis that a manager would call Mr and Mrs B to proceed with a CBIL application.
Barclays called Mr and Mrs B on 14 April to obtain some information in preparation for the 
CBIL application. Mr and Mrs B declined to provide anything at this time, wanting instead to 
speak directly to a manager. A manager then called on 21 April, asking for information 
including accounts and forecasts in order to assess the CBIL application. S provided this on 
28 April. 
Barclays subsequently redirected S to the Bounce Back Loan Scheme that was launched on 
4 May 2020. Loans of up to £50,000 could no longer be obtained under the CBIL Scheme. 
Bounce Back Loan applications were done online, but when Mr and Mrs B tried to submit Ss 
request they were unable to do so. This was because of discrepancies in information held by 
the bank and that recorded at Companies House. But by the time this was identified, Mr and 
Mrs B no longer wanted the loan from Barclays as S had obtained one elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how long it took to progress their initial CBIL request and the 
misunderstandings that led to an application for a different loan altogether. They also think 
that Barclays shouldve had all the information it needed in order to allow a Bounce Back 
Loan application immediately. 
When Mr and Mrs B initially complained to Barclays, the bank didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It thought its adviser had been clear about what the initial application was 
for and that Mr and Mrs B had misunderstood her. The bank also said that an 
unprecedented number of enquiries for loans under the CBIL Scheme had led to the long 
waiting times on its phonelines, and that its application process  through which Mr and 
Mrs Bs request had been progressed  had been designed to alleviate these. But in 
response to a subsequent complaint following the abortive Bounce Back Loan application, 
Barclays accepted that there had been some confusion and offered S compensation of £75. 
The bank maintained, though, that the Bounce Back Loan application couldnt proceed as 
the details it held for S didnt match those registered with Companies House.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. They said that they wanted 
the bank to refund five years worth of account charges. One of our investigators reviewed 
the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In summary, she said:
Having listened to recordings of Mr and Mrs Bs calls with the bank, she didnt think 
Barclays had made it clear that it was progressing an application for a standard 
business loan rather than a CBIL.
Mr and Mrs B had been unable to progress the Bounce Back Loan application due to 
discrepancies in the banks records. But theyd recently received assurances from 
Barclays that its information about S was up-to-date. So she thought this delay ought 
to have been avoided.
While Barclays errors had caused delays in the progress of Ss loan applications, 
there had also been occasions on which Mr and Mrs B hadnt cooperated with the 
bank.
So to put things right, our investigator recommended that Barclays increase its 
compensation offer to £250 to better reflect the inconvenience that S had been caused. She 
also thought that the bank should remove any record of the credit check it had carried out 
during the erroneous loan application.
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but Mr and Mrs B didnt. They still wanted the 
bank to refund five years account charges on the basis that they couldve obtained free 
business banking elsewhere  but had remained with Barclays only to then be let down in 
their time of need. They also said that delays in progressing the loan application had caused 
S to lose business, as without the funds it had been unable to purchase the equipment 
needed to fulfil orders. So they asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was 
passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy at how long it took to begin the process of applying for a CBIL. I 
can appreciate the frustration they experienced at the time  evidently they spent a number 
of hours waiting on the phone before getting through to an adviser to start an application. 
And I recognise the urgency of their request  the very purpose of the CBIL Scheme itself 
was to support businesses like theirs in dealing with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. 
At the same time though, I think it is also fair to bear in mind the unprecedented 
circumstances of the time  and the impact these wouldve had on the bank itself. In addition 
to the large volume of loan applications and associated calls and contact, the bank was also having to deal with the consequences of the pandemic  which would all have affected the 
level of service it could provide. So in and of themselves, I dont think the wait times that S 
experienced at the outset were unreasonable.
However, I do think there were errors on Barclays part in how it handled the request for a 
CBIL once Mr and Mrs B were in touch with an adviser. Ive listened to recordings of Mr and 
Mrs Bs conversations with Barclays and have heard that they were clear in their request to 
apply for a CBIL. The adviser proceeded to take them through an application for a different 
type of loan altogether  and didnt make this sufficiently clear. So I can see why Mr and 
Mrs B assumed that a CBIL application was underway. 
S was therefore inconvenienced as a result of its directors engaging in an application for a 
loan that wasnt required. I understand the process also involved a credit check, so its right 
that this should be removed from Ss record as the application shouldnt have proceeded.
Thankfully, the banks error was identified swiftly  in a further call the following day (27 
March 2020). So as things turned out, the error only delayed the progress of Mr and Mrs Bs 
CBIL request by one day. Once it was then identified that Mr and Mrs B wanted to apply for 
a CBIL, Barclays logged a request for a lending manager to call them in line with its process. 
From the records Ive seen, it then took until 25 April for a lending manager to contact Mr 
and Mrs B. However, in the intervening period, an adviser did call with a view to completing 
some preparatory steps (and thereby expediting the process)  but Mr and Mrs B requested 
that the matter be dealt with by a manager. So while there was some delay on Barclays 
part, its also fair to say that things couldve progressed more quickly if Mr and Mrs B had 
cooperated with the bank at this point. 
Shortly after the lending manager was in touch, the government was preparing to launch a 
new loan scheme to support businesses  the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. This was to 
provide faster access to loans of £50,000 or under  and these amounts could no longer be 
borrowed under the CBIL Scheme. So Barclays correctly redirected S to the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme to pursue its application. Access to the Scheme was only available from 
5 May 2020.
However, S was unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan as the bank found its records didnt 
match those held at Companies House. Like our investigator, I think this ought to have been 
avoided. Mr and Mrs B had already been required to update information as part of the 
abortive loan application, and given a CBIL application had also been initiated I think all of 
this ought reasonably to have been resolved before this point. So a further delay ensued 
here, with S put to some further inconvenience in trying to sort things out.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs B decided to apply elsewhere for a Bounce Back Loan for S in late 
May and Im pleased to see that they were successful. But their attempt to access support 
under the government-backed loan schemes took longer than it ought to have done.
Mr and Mrs B say that the delay caused S to lose business, which weve asked them to 
evidence. Theyve provided four quotes, issued to potential clients between 9 April and 26 
May 2020, of work they say they couldnt take on until S obtained the loan. Ive carefully 
considered what theyve said and provided. But Ive not seen enough to show that the delays 
caused by errors on Barclays part meant that S missed out on this business. There might be 
a number of reasons why the work didnt go ahead  there is, for example, no evidence that 
the quotes were accepted. And as set out above, Ive not found the entire delay between the 
initial request for funding (26 March 2020) and S obtaining a loan in late May to have been 
the result of errors on the banks part. So I dont think Barclays needs to pay S any 
compensation in this respect.Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs B have said about the account charges. I understand 
their disappointment in the service they received, although as Ive outlined above I dont 
think that the bank is wholly responsible for the delay in S obtaining the funding it required. 
But the charges were applied for a separate service altogether, of which S received the 
benefit (i.e. the use of the bank account). So I dont think a refund of these charges would be 
a fair remedy for the problems S experienced in relation to its loan application.
Rather, it is a matter of compensating S for the inconvenience it was caused by 
shortcomings in the service provided by Barclays. Most notably, S was put through a loan 
application in error and was unable to access the Bounce Back Loan Scheme when it ought 
to have been available. And it was engaged in more contact and correspondence about the 
matter than ought to have been necessary. I should also add that I appreciate the matter 
caused some stress and worry to Mr and Mrs B personally, but as the complaint is brought 
by S that isnt something I can compensate them for. All I can require Barclays to 
compensate S for is the inconvenience it was caused and for that, I also think that £250 is 
fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay S compensation of £250 
and remove the record of its credit check conducted during the abortive loan application, if 
its not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman