DRN-3192603
The complaint
Miss W complains Ageas Insurance Limited gave her misleading information about her 
choice to pay off a claim made against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2020 a third-party driver made a claim against Miss Ws Ageas motor 
insurance policy. In March 2021 Ageas told her it had accepted she was at fault for the 
incident. It paid about £3,700 to settle the third-partys claim.
In August 2021 Miss W received a renewal document from Ageas. She was upset to 
discover the quoted premium had increased from around £2,700 to about £4,300. She 
complained to Ageas. She said, as she was worried about the impact of the claim record on 
her future premiums, she had asked Ageas if she could clear the record by paying it the cost 
of the claim. She said Ageas had advised her not to, telling her the claim record wouldnt 
have a large impact on her future premiums. She feels the insurer caused her to lose out 
financially by giving her misleading information. 
When responding to Miss Ws complaint Ageas said she hadnt been misinformed. It said its 
adviser had explained she could pay off the claim, but also said he couldn't guarantee her 
premium wouldnt increase anyway. Ageas explained the adviser had recommended Miss W 
contact her broker to discuss the potential impact of the claim on her premiums. It concluded 
that it was unable to remove or amend records of the claim or lower the premium she had 
been quoted. 
Miss W wasnt satisfied so came to this service. She says she was told by Ageas not to 
reimburse it the cost of the claim. The matter is causing her distress as she will struggle to 
afford insurance now. Not having the use of her car will cause her inconvenience. So she 
wants Ageas to compensate her for financial loss and reinstate her no claims discount.
In November 2021 our investigator considered Miss Ws complaint. She didn't think Ageas 
had caused Miss W to lose out. She didn't recommend it pay her any compensation or do 
anything differently. Miss W didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to two phone calls between Miss W and Ageas. In the first Ageas adviser 
mistakenly said the cost of the claim was about £1,500. He did explain to her it probably 
wouldnt be economical for her to pay off the claim. However, he recommended Miss W 
speak to her broker about the possible impact of the claim record on her future premiums. 
The second call took place a few days later. It was many months before Miss Ws policy 
renewal date. During that call a different Ageas adviser explained the claim cost was closer 
to £3,700. The adviser said she couldnt give Miss W any certainty about the impact of the 
claim on her premiums. She said she didnt know if it would be economical for Miss W to pay 
off the claim. That adviser also recommended she speak to her broker about the impact of 
the claim. She set out that Miss W had until the date of renewal to pay off the claim.
Overall I think Ageas provided clear enough information to Miss W. The second adviser 
made up for any mistakes made by the first. Ageas made Miss W aware of her options, 
explaining it was unable to tell her exactly what the impact on her premiums would be. It was 
clear enough that the choice, about clearing the claim record, was hers.    
I realise the significant increase in the premium quoted by Ageas caused Miss W some 
distress. But I cant say Ageas unfairly caused her to pay more for her insurance or lose out 
financially. Overall it provided her with fair information about the options available to her. So 
Im not going to require it to pay her compensation or do anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman