DRN-4421417
The complaint
Mr W complains about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (MIC) and the damage he 
thinks the telematics device installed as part of the policy they provided caused to his car.
What happened
Mr W purchased a motor insurance policy, underwritten by MIC. This policy required a 
telematics device to be fitted to Mr Ws car, so his driving behaviours could be monitored 
which in turn would feed into the pricing of his policy. MIC used an administrator, who Ill 
refer to as IG to administer his policy. As IG were acting as an agent of MIC, Ill refer to any 
actions taken, or comments made, by IG as though they were made by MIC where 
appropriate throughout the decision.
The telematics device was installed on Mr Ws car on 13 November 2022. And on the same 
day, Mr W had to call a breakdown company to assist him, after his battery had run flat. His 
car couldnt be restarted and so, he took his car to a repairer, who Ill refer to as S, to 
identify and fix the issue.
S undertook investigations and provided their opinion that the telematics device was directly 
draining Mr Ws car battery. And, that the attempts to jump start Mr Ws car after the battery 
had drained most likely caused an issue on his cars ECU. So, S repaired Mr Ws car without 
reinstalling the telematics device, and Mr W paid for the costs of this. But Mr W was unhappy 
hed been left out of pocket and so, he complained to MIC.
Mr W thought the telematics device hed been given was faulty, and that it had led to the 
costs hed incurred repairing his car. And while he did initially request for a replacement 
device, he didnt want to fit it to his car in case the same issue occurred. So, he cancelled his 
insurance policy. But he didnt think the costs applied for this cancellation was fair. So, he 
wanted to be reimbursed for the costs hed incurred.
MIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think Mr W had provided 
sufficient evidence to show the telematics device was the cause of his battery issue, and the 
repairs required following this. So, they didnt think they should cover the costs outlined in S 
invoice that Mr W paid. And while they thought the cancellation was ultimately Mr Ws own 
decision, they thought they had acted fairly when refunding Mr W a telematics fee and 
waiving the usual cancellation fee. So, they thought the outstanding balance of £60.69 
remained payable. Mr W remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought that, based on the 
balance of probability and the evidence available to them, that the telematics device was 
most likely the cause of the battery running flat, and the impact this may have had on the car 
ECU. So, as MIC were responsible for the policy and the requirement for the device, they 
thought MIC should reimburse Mr W the £480.78 he paid for the repair works completed by 
S, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date the invoice was paid to the date of refund. 
And they thought MIC should pay Mr W an additional £100 for the inconvenience he 
wouldve been caused.
But they thought MIC were fair when continuing to charge the non-refundable device cost, as 
a second device was sent which Mr W chose not to have installed himself. So, they thought 
any outstanding fees relating to the cancellation remained payable.
Mr W accepted this recommendation, but MIC didnt. And MIC provides several comments 
explaining why. These centred around their belief that S hadnt completed or provided a full 
diagnostics report when repairing the car. And without this, they didnt think it was fair to 
decide the telematics was faulty or the cause of the damage that needed repairing. So, they 
didnt think they should be directed to do anything more than they had already.
Our investigator considered MICs comments, but their view remained the same. MIC 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think its important for me to explain what 
Ive been able to consider, and how. I want to make it clear its not my role to say for certain 
whether I think the telematics device was faulty, or whether this would then lead to a flat 
battery and an ECU issue, as I dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, it is my role to 
consider whether I think the actions and decisions MIC have taken are fair and reasonable. 
And this consideration is based on the evidence and information available to me. Where I 
dont hold evidence that gives a definitive answer, it is our services approach to consider the 
information and evidence I do have, and that MIC had access to and sight of, to then think 
about what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the balance of probability. And 
so, what I think fair and reasonable actions from MIC wouldve been.
In this situation, I can see its not in dispute that Mr Ws telematics device was fitted to his 
car on 13 November 2022. This follows the information MIC retrieved from the device, which 
showed it was active on the same date for a short period of time.
And I can see on the same date, Mr W needed to call out a breakdown company to assist 
him, as his battery had run flat. And after inspection, this breakdown company 
recommended Mr Ws car be taken to a garage for further inspection. Ive seen no evidence 
to show Mr Ws car had a previous fault with the battery, or any other aspect of its electrics, 
before this date and so, I can understand why Mr W would link the telematics device to the 
issue with the battery, considering how close the issue occurred to the fitting.
And Ive seen an e-mail from S, who completed the repair work. And in this email, I think its 
clear S found that the battery held its charge when it wasnt fitted to the telematics device. 
But, when it was fitted, I think S made it clear the battery charge was impacted. And further 
to this, I can see S have then stated the attempts to restart Mr Ws car by Mr W himself, and 
the breakdown company, may have directly led to the issue then found with the ECU and the 
other parts that Mr W has then had to pay to be repaired, as shown on the invoice hes 
provided. 
So, I would expect MIC to take this information and diagnosis on board, as S were the 
independent, repairing expert who were able to assess the car in person. While I appreciate this opinion was given in an email, rather than a diagnostic report, I dont think its fair for 
MIC to completely discount this when thinking about the actions they should take.
It is our services approach to place weight on the evidence and testimony given by an 
expert who has been able to inspect an issue in person. And this doesnt stipulate that this 
opinion must be given in a certain format. While I agree a full diagnostic report wouldve 
been ideal in this situation, unfortunately one was compiled or provided. And I dont think its 
fair to hold Mr W at fault for this, or use this to disadvantage him, as I wouldnt expect Mr W 
to know that this sort of report was available or necessary. And as the repairs have since 
been completed, there is now no way of obtaining a report that would provide the relevant 
insight.
So, Ive thought about the opinion provided by S against the testimony and information 
provided by MIC. And while MIC have provided a report of the telematics device, I dont think 
this provides enough relevant information as MIC themselves have confirmed the device 
was only activated for a very short period of time. So, I dont think it provides a proportionate 
and reasonable amount of data that shows the telematics device was working as expected.
And while I note MIC have provided comments from the device manufacturer explaining how 
the device should work, I think this is all the comments provide. They explain how the device 
should work if its working as expected. But crucially, the comments dont talk to the actual 
device Mr W had fitted and so, I think this must be considered.
So, having thought about all the above, Im more persuaded by the opinion of S, which I 
think gives a plausible explanation of why the battery was draining, how they decided this 
was caused by the telematics device and how this then impacted the ECU and other parts 
that needed to be repaired and replaced. So, I dont think I can say MIC acted fairly when 
deciding not to rely on this information and so, Ive then thought about what I think they 
should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr W back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had MIC acted fairly in the first place. And in this situation, I think MIC wouldve 
provided him with a fully functioning telematics device, that didnt impact the battery of his 
car. And as Ive explained above, I dont think I can say they did, based on the balance of 
probability and what I think is most likely to have happened.
And had they done so, I think its reasonable for me to assume that the issue with Mr Ws car 
battery, and the repairs linked to these issues, wouldnt have needed to be completed. So, 
Mr W wouldnt have incurred the invoice from S hes had to pay. So, I think MIC should 
reimburse him the full amount, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date he paid the 
invoice to the date of refund, to recognise the length of time hes been without these funds.
And I do think Mr W was inconvenienced by the issues he faced, as it left him without a 
driveable car for a period of time. Our investigator recommended MIC pay Mr W £100 
compensation to recognise this inconvenience, which I note Mr W accepted. And I think this 
amount if a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed 
had it not already been paid. So, this is a payment Im directing MIC to make.
But I do think MIC provided Mr W with a replacement device after conversations regarding 
his situation and his complaint. And I do think it was Mr Ws own decision not to install this 
device. While I recognise why he took this decision, that doesnt negate from the fact Mr W 
received another device from MIC. And as this wasnt installed, I think MIC were fair to 
cancel the policy as it was dependent on the device being fitted. So, I do think MIC were fair to charge Mr W for this non-refundable device fee. 
And Id expect them to charge Mr W for the time he was on cover and any other non-
refundable charges and compare this to the premiums hed paid up to the point of 
cancellation. As this left Mr W with an amount to pay, I do think this amount remains 
payable. But I am glad to see MIC acted fairly and reasonably when agreeing to waive the 
cancellation fee and refund the additional telematics fee he paid considering I think the first 
device was most likely faulty. So, I dont think they need to do anything more regarding the 
cancellation of the policy, and the left-over payable balance of £60.69.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Reimburse Mr W the £480.78 he paid to S, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the 
date of payment to the date of refund; and
Pay Mr W £100 compensation to recognise the inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman