DRN-3030975
complaint
This complaint is about a loan single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1999. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr S 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr S representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think, on balance Lloyds made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because while Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr S loan 
agreement from the time - unsurprising given the loan account closed in 2000  
it has provided an example of what it says is representative of what Mr S would have 
seen when he took out his loan and PPI. 
Looking at this I can see the cost of PPI is set out separately from the principal loan cost 
information and its described here as being optional. And toward the bottom of the 
agreement the applicant was asked to tick one of two boxes  Yes or No  to indicate 
whether they wanted PPI or not. Again it was described here as being optional.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something different happened in Mr S case, I think its likely he chose to take out PPI by 
ticking the relevant box on his application and he did so without undue pressure.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr S - so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. And the evidence about Mr S circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr S was eligible for the 
cover and it appears he had limited means to fall back on. His sick pay was less than 
three months pay and he didnt have any savings he could use to make the repayments 
on his loan if he wasnt working. So I think he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr S employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr S says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, what Mr S has disclosed cannot reasonably be 
described as an existing medical condition  its a common recurring seasonal ailment. 
There were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems. And 
while the policy didnt provide for a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early and the 
policy cancelled, Ive not seen anything to indicate Mr S intended to do this at the time. 
So I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. 
I accept the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  for example the cost information wasnt complete in the credit agreement. But 
Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The 
cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr S as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information I think he was likely 
given. At less than £9 a month it also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr 
S would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr S individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr S particular case. 
But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman