DRN-3790883
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc reclaimed money that had been paid to him under a 
Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) claim and provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr B says that on 15 July 2022, two direct debit payments (£106.46 and £64.39) were 
debited from his account and paid to a third party company. He contacted Santander to tell 
them that he had previous conversations and e-mail confirmations from the third party that 
the direct debit had been amended and they completed an indemnity claim under the DDG 
and the funds were returned, with the direct debit also being cancelled.
Mr B says that he subsequently made direct payments to the third party for £73.40 and 
£23.42. He says on 2 August, a payment of £170.85 debited his account as a transfer out. 
He says he contacted Santander, who werent able to identify the payment, and Mr B 
subsequently found out his indemnity claim had been rejected by the third party. He says 
that after a number of calls, he found out the third party company had provided Santander a 
statement up until May, showing he owed the third party money, and this was the reason 
given by Santander for debiting the transfer from his account. He said that the DDG provides 
an immediate refund to the customer and there appears to be no provision for the 
organisation to reject or dispute a claim. Mr B made a complaint to Santander.
Santander did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said that they had been provided with 
evidence from the third party to support the claim was not valid. Mr B brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said as the third party provided 
Santander with evidence that an amount was owed to them, then Santander were made to 
believe that the claim related to a dispute rather than an error being made with the collection 
of the direct debit. Therefore, as a dispute isnt covered by the DDG, our investigator thought 
Santander hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in debiting this from his account, as it's 
clear the third party didnt agree there had been an error with the collection of the direct debit 
and they subsequently provided evidence that this was owed.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said in the event the third party provided information to Santander prior to the 
date his direct debit had been amended, this should have prompted Santander to either seek 
clarification from the third party to confirm the information provided was correct, or to seek 
clarification or evidence from himself as to why there was a discrepancy allowing him to 
provide evidence of this, checked his account which would have shown the correct amount 
had been paid to the third party company to avoid a double payment during a financially 
sensitive time, or to advise the third party to contact Mr B to resolve the issue and seek 
payment if required.
Mr B provided us with a link to the third partys website regarding the DDG. He also says that 
Santander werent able to tell him what the debit was for in August when he contacted them, 
and he rang them a number of times.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr B from the outset that Im unable to instruct Santander how they should complete 
their investigations when someone raises a claim under the DDG, as these are business 
decisions for Santander to make. 
I must make it clear that I can only look into the actions of Santander here and not the third 
party. So if the third party has apologised to Mr B or have done something incorrect, this 
does not automatically mean that Santander have done something incorrect as Ill be looking 
at what the third party told Santander. 
I can understand why Mr B feels strongly that the wrong amount had been taken by the third 
party on 15 July, as he has two emails from the third party dated 5 July to state that the 
direct debit has been amended, so he expected that as the emails say Youre due to pay 
£73.40 (and £23.42) on the 15th of each month by Direct Debit then this is what would have 
been collected on 15 July. 
So Ive considered what could have gone wrong here. One of the possibilities is that it can 
take 10 working days for a direct debit to be amended. And although the third party emailed 
Mr B on 5 July to say his direct debit details had been updated, this does not mean that just 
because the third party have updated their system, that the process is complete. 
I say this for a couple of reasons. Ive looked at the website link Mr B provided us. This also 
references 10 working days. It says if there are any changes to the amount, date, or 
frequency of your Direct Debit (third party company) will notify you 10 working days in 
advance of your account being debited or as otherwise agreed. Here, it was less than 10 
working days which the third party sent Mr B the emails before the collection date. If it was 
on 5 July when the emails were sent to him, 10 working days would be 19 July, but his 
payments were collected on 15 July. His emails do not confirm from what date the change 
would take effect.
In addition, the DDG website shows If there are any changes to the amount, date or 
frequency of your Direct Debit the organisation will notify you (normally 10 working days) in 
advance of your account being debited or as otherwise agreed. So there is the possibility 
that the process wasnt completed in time and that is why the third party had requested the 
payment amount prior to the amendment. I would not expect Santander to be aware of what 
Mr B and a third party had agreed if neither party had told them prior to the direct debit 
collection date. 
I can see Santander did raise the claim under the DDG as Mr B told them incorrect amount 
had been debited. So they paid Mr B the funds back into his account and conducted their 
investigations. The third party did tell Santander that they were challenging his claims due to 
them giving advanced notice of the direct debit amounts. And they used Mr Bs statements to evidence that they had informed Mr B what the payments would be on one of his accounts 
in June 2022 and the other account from July 2022.
Im persuaded that it would be reasonable for Santander to rely on this evidence. I say this 
as especially one of the statements shows the third party has told Mr B that they would be 
collecting the payment of £106.46 on 15 July  which they did. So it would appear to 
Santander that there was no error with the direct debit payment amount when strong 
evidence had been shown that advance notice  more than 10 working days  was given to 
Mr B of the amount of the direct debit. Given the evidence provided, Im not persuaded it 
would have been proportionate for them to ask Mr B of evidence to prove the payment was 
incorrect and they have stated their procedure is not to contact the customer in this instance 
anyway.
So I cant say that Santander were unreasonable in re-debiting the funds from Mr Bs 
account. They had paid the third party the funds on 15 July and they hadnt reclaimed these 
from the third party. So when the third party challenged the claim, and they told Santander 
the correct amount was charged  and they provided credible evidence of this, then Im not 
persuaded Santander were unreasonable to debit this amount from his account as they 
would have been owed this money as a result of them refunding this to Mr B, and they would 
not be aware that the direct debit had been amended on 5 July on the third partys system, 
especially as the third party told them they collected the correct (higher) amount.
Mr B was told by the Santander chat agent he raised the claim with that I just need to let 
you know that whilst a refund can be provided if an error has been made under the terms of 
the Direct Debit Guarantee, if an error hasn't been made, you might need to pay back the 
amount refunded either to us or the Direct Debit organisation. The organisation might also 
take action to recover the funds, this could lead to cancellation of service or legal action. Mr 
B agreed to this. So as per the live chat agent, as the third party said an error hadnt been 
made, and they provided credible evidence to support this, that is why he needed to pay the 
amount refunded to Santander in this instance, as they hadnt asked the third party to refund 
the direct debit, so the money was owed to them.
Ive then considered the customer service aspect of this complaint. Mr B contacted 
Santander to find out what the debit of his account was for, and he says nobody could 
explain what this was for. Ive listened to a call Mr B made to Santander on 3 August. Here, 
he tells the call handler about the reference DDI and then some numbers. The call handler 
places Mr B on hold while she looked into this and tells him that it was related to the third 
party company. She informs him that this is in relation to the direct debit indemnity and that 
he will soon be getting a letter. The call handler advises him to contact the third party 
company and he may wish to raise a complaint with the third party. 
Mr B then rings back Santander the following day. The call handler explains to Mr B that the 
issue is with the third party provider and he explained that Santander would reclaim the 
money back from him if the business reject the claim. He is then transferred to the 
complaints department to make a complaint. The complaint handler speaks to Mr B and asks 
him further questions and lets him know she would look into his complaint. Ive listened to 
another call which was made by the complaint handler to Mr B on the same day and the call 
handler clearly explains to Mr B several times that the third party company disputed his claim 
under the DDG and when Mr B said that no one had rang him about it, she explained this 
was not their procedure and he would receive a letter about it.
Im not persuaded that any of the call handlers provided him with poor service on the calls 
Ive listened to or wasnt able to explain to him what the reference was. The first two call 
handlers explained how the claim worked. So Im not persuaded that Santander made any 
errors here.Ultimately, the claim under the DDG was rejected due to the third party provider telling 
Santander that the amount they collected was correct. As they told Santander this and 
provided credible evidence of this  even though they told Mr B something different, then 
Santander claimed the money back from Mr B that they had paid to him when they raised 
the claim. As this would then be classed as a dispute between Mr B and the third party 
company, which the DDG does not cover contractual disputes. So I cant say that Santander 
have made an error here. So it follows that I dont require Santander to do anything else. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman