DRN-3318984
The complaint
Mr P complains that Simplyhealth Access didnt treat him fairly in relation to changes to his 
private medical insurance.
What happened
Mr P has a cash plan health insurance policy, insured by Simplyhealth. His policy usually 
renewed on 29 May. 
On 9 September 2019 Mr P called Simplyhealth as hed just received a policy renewal 
booklet dated July 2019. The booklet provided him with a new policy number and start date 
so the claim year would start from 29 September 2019. The booklet also said his monthly 
premiums would increase by £3.70 a month. Mr P told Simplyhealth it hadnt given him 
reasonable notice of the policy changes and had hidden the premium increase in small font 
within the document. 
Mr P says in a call on 12 September 2019 Simplyhealth told him it should have sent the 
policy information sooner, it would re-instate his existing policy and premiums to the end of 
December 2019 and contact him to see if he would like to start the new policy or cancel the 
policy. That didnt happen and the new policy started in September 2019 with the increased 
premium. 
Mr P wants Simplyhealth to refund all his increased premiums, pay him compensation for the 
period he was unable to make any claims on the policy due to the change in claiming dates 
and compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. He said 
Simplyhealth didnt take into account his disability when he asked for reasonable 
adjustments. He also wants Simplyhealth to apologise for its poor service.
Simplyhealth apologised that the policy booklets arrived much later than anticipated. It said it 
had offered Mr P to postpone the start of the new policy but had also asked him to contact it 
about what he wanted do. As he didnt make contact the new policy started as planned on 
29 September 2019. Simplyhealth didnt accept that the new premium information was 
unclear in the booklet but it had fedback Mr Ps comments to its relevant team.
Our investigator recommended Simplyhealth refund the difference between the increased 
premium and the original premium from September 2019 to December 2019. She said  
Simplyhealths letter to Mr P after their call about the policy changes reasonably led Mr P to   
believe it would contact him to confirm what he wanted to do about the start date of the new 
policy, which didnt happen. But our investigator said Mr Ps claim history showed he had 
made claims between September 2019 and December 2019 and there was no basis for 
Simplyhealth to pay compensation to Mr P for the other issues hed raised in this complaint.
Simplyhealth agreed our investigators recommendation. Mr P didnt agree and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. He added that hed made other complaints to Simplyhealth as a 
result of this complaint and Simplyhealth hadnt sent us details about those. Our investigator 
explained that her recommendation was just about the complaint hed originally made to us 
and Mr P needed to make a separate complaint if he was unhappy about other issues.
Before I made my decision we contacted Simplyhealth to say that in addition to telling it to 
refund the difference between the increased and the original premiums from September 
2019 to December 2019 I was intending to tell it to pay interest at our usual rate on the 
difference. Id also seen that Simplyhealths final response letter to Mr Ps complaint said as 
the policy had started in September rather than December 2019 his March 2020 dental claim 
for £50 hadnt been paid in full as he only had £17.30 remaining under that benefit. We told 
Simplyhealth that if Mr Ps dental claim would have been paid in full if the policy start date 
had been delayed until end of December 2019 it should pay the balance of the claim, plus 
interest. That would put Mr P in the position he would have been in if the policy start date 
had been delayed. We asked for Simplyhealths comments for me to consider further.
Simplyhealth agreed to pay the interest on the refund of premium difference. It confirmed 
that if the policy had started at the end of December 2019 Mr P would have had fresh benefit 
entitlements for the new claiming year and would have had enough entitlement to pay the 
March 2020 claim of £50 in full. So Simplyhealth agreed to pay the balance of that claim plus 
interest.
Our investigator spoke to Mr P to see if Simplyhealths new offer meant he considered that 
his complaint had been agreed. Mr P said he would accept the settlement offer but he 
thought Simplyhealth should have agreed to settle on that basis from the start of his 
complaint  and wants it held to task. Our investigator explained to Mr P that it isnt our role 
to punish businesses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only about Mr Ps policy. He is the representative in his wifes complaint 
about her policy with Simplyhealth and Ive made a separate decision about his wifes policy. 
I need to decide whether Simplyhealth acted fairly and reasonably to Mr P in relation to his 
policy changes. Mr P says hes made other complaints to Simplyhealth as a result of this 
complaint but our investigator correctly explained those are separate matters. If Mr P and  
Simplyhealth cant agree on those separate matters he can make a separate complaint to 
us.
In respect of this complaint, the policy says:
We can change any of the terms and conditions relating to the policy if we give you 
one months notice. This includes:
the cover the policy provides
terms and conditions
We will tell you about any changes in writing to your home address. We will not be
responsible if, for any reason, you do not receive them. You may cancel the policy in
accordance with section Simplyhealth.1 (How does cover end?) if you do not like the 
changes we have made.Ive considered the relevant phone calls and correspondence between Mr P and 
Simplyhealth. In the 12 September 2019 call Simplyhealth apologises that Mr P had received 
his new policy information later that it had planned and offered to delay the start of the new 
policy to 29 December 2019 so he had time to use the entitlements under his policy. 
I dont think Mr P was disadvantaged by the delay in him receiving the policy change 
information. Simplyhealth offered to postpone the start date of his new policy to the end of 
December 2019 which gave him about three months notice of the change, more than the 
one months notice its required to give under the policy terms.
During the call Mr P told Simplyhealth he needed to make a financial decision about what do 
about the policy. They spoke about Mr Ps options. Simplyhealth said it would email Mr P 
with further information on the options and Mr P spoke of hypothetically delaying the transfer 
to the new policy to 29 December 2019. But in that call that Mr P didnt instruct Simplyhealth 
to definitely postpone the policy start date until December 2019. At the end of the call it was 
left that Simplyhealth would email Mr P with further information which Mr P would consider 
and contact Simplyhealth to make any changes to the policy. 
Simplyhealths follow up email to Mr P outlined their conversation. However, importantly the 
end of the email said:
The next step will be for a member of our Customer Options to contact you, confirm 
some regulatory information and make the necessary amendments to your policies.
I think this where the miscommunication between Mr P and Simplyhealth happened. From 
the phone call Simplyhealth understood Mr P would contact it to confirm his instructions 
about the policy. But I find that Mr P could reasonably understand from the above sentence 
in the email that Simplyhealth would contact him to take his instructions. And Simplyhealth 
didnt tell Mr P in the call or the email that if he didnt provide instructions about the policy 
before 29 September 2019 the new policy and increased premiums would automatically 
start.  
Given Mr Ps reasonable understanding I appreciate why he was surprised when he found 
that the new policy had started in September 2019. But theres no basis for me to say 
Simplyhealth should refund all his increased premiums as Mr P knew that if he continued  
the policy the latest the new one could start was end of December 2019. And hes continued 
with the policy and claimed on it. 
So I think the fair remedy for Simplyhealth to put things right in respect of the premium 
increase is for it refund to Mr P the difference between the increased premium and the 
original premium from September 2019 to December 2019 plus interest as Ive set out 
below. Simplyhealth has now agreed to do so. 
Ive also considered Mr Ps concerns about the premium increase being hidden in the policy 
booklet in small font. Simplyhealth can make its own commercial decision about how it wants 
to present its literature, but I would expect premium information to be clear to a consumer. 
The premium increase information is on page two of the document it says:
Important information..
To balance the rising costs of healthcare, weve made an increase to your cover 
levels and premium.
Page three of document gives the current and new premium. I understand Mr Ps point about 
the font but I think the information was clear enough. Simplyhealth did feedback Mr Ps 
comments on the font to its relevant team, which was reasonable.I think Simplyhealth gave Mr P reasonable service. Mr P says Simplyhealth didnt take into 
account his disability when he asked for reasonable adjustment and under The Equality Act 
it should have done. But when Mr P raised that he wanted Simplyhealth to make a 
reasonable adjustment Simplyhealth asked him what he needed. Mr P told Simplyhealth that 
its process needed to change so if there was a complaint and it had to be done in 30 days 
then a reasonable adjustment could be 60 days instead of 30. But Mr P was at the end of 
Simplyhealths complaint process and it had told him he could complain to us. So I dont 
think it needed to extend its complaint process further. And from the phone calls I think 
Simplyhealth did take into account Mr Ps circumstances when it made its offer to postpone 
the policy start date and it took time to explain in detail to Mr P its response to his complaint. 
As to Mr Ps claims during the relevant period, the evidence is he was able to make claims 
which were paid between September 2019 and December 2019. The only evidence Ive 
seen that he was disadvantaged in his claims by the new policy starting in September 2019 
was that he didnt have his full benefits entitlement for his March 2020 dental claim and he 
would have done if the policy had started end of December 2019. Simplyhealth says Mr P 
claimed £50 but only had £17.30 remaining under that benefit, which it paid. Simplyhealth 
has now agreed to pay the balance of that claim, £32.70, so that Mr P gets the full 
entitlement, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
I appreciate Mr P is annoyed that Simplyhealth didnt agree to offer this settlement sooner. 
But were not the industry regulator and it isnt our role to fine or punish businesses. Our role 
is to decide a consumers complaint about a business. I dont generally award compensation 
just because a consumer has had to complain, and theres no basis for me to do so in Mr Ps 
circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive given above I think the settlement that Simplyhealth has now agreed to 
pay is fair and reasonable and theres no basis for me to award compensation for Mr Ps 
distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Simplyhealth must refund the difference between Mr Ps increased policy premium and the 
original premium from September 2019 to December 2019 plus interest as detailed below. It 
must also pay Mr P the balance of his March 2020 dental claim, £32.70, plus the interest.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Simplyhealth Access to:
Refund the difference between Mr Ps increased policy premium and the original 
premium from September 2019 to December 2019 plus interest* at 8% simple a year 
from September 2019 to the date of settlement, and 
Pay to Mr P the balance of his March 2020 dental claim, £32.70, plus interest* at 8% 
simple a year from March 2020 to the date of settlement.
*If Simplyhealth Access considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman