DRN-4376517
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd refuses to refund payments he says werent authorised by 
him.
 
What happened
Mr H saw an advert on social media for an investment company Ill call P that he says was 
celebrity endorsed. Mr H clicked on the advert and received a message explaining the 
investment opportunity to him. Under the guidance of one of Ps representatives, Mr H 
decided to open a trading account with them. Mr H paid P via one of his other banking 
providers and in September 2022, he was able to withdraw £480 from his trading account. 
This convinced him the investment was real.
Mr H was able to monitor his investment via his trading account and would receive regular 
updates from Ps representative. 
Mr H was persuaded by Ps representative to open an account with Revolut. Payments of 
£3,000 on 28 December 2022 and £802 on 29 December 2022 were paid from Mr Hs 
Revolut account (using his debit card) to a crypto exchange Ill call C. He says these were 
made without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr H realised P was operating a scam when he was unable to withdraw his profits  despite 
paying the fees requested by P. 
Mr H complained to Revolut that it didnt do enough to protect his account as the payments 
were not made by him. Revolut declined to refund Mr Hs loss and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and felt Mr H had authorised the payments. 
He also didnt think an intervention from Revolut would have made a difference and noted 
Revolut had blocked payments prior to the second disputed payment but Mr H hadnt been 
honest in his answers. 
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said in summary:
The payments were unauthorised and he has no knowledge of ever making them or 
being contacted by Revolut about them. 
He had no knowledge of Revolut was and remains completely unaware of how C 
works or where the money was sent. He was told to set up this Revolut account 
under the guidance of the scammers but has no knowledge of ever providing the 
scammers with remote access, OTP or other codes. 
He was asked to provide various forms of ID during the scam to validate his 
investments, this included a utility bill and other documents around the time the 
payments were made. He would like clarity on whether the payments were set-up on 
the same device that opened the account originally as he believes the scammers did 
this themselves. 
Any in-app chat or warning would have likely been intercepted by scammers. A 
telephone call would have uncovered that he had no knowledge of the payments 
being taken. 
He is elderly and more susceptible to the social engineering and manipulation tactics 
frequently used by scammers. 
On 15 September 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint but Ive provided additional reasoning 
as to why. 
Firstly, Ive not seen any evidence that Revolut ought to have been aware that Mr H was 
vulnerable at the time he opened his account, or when payments debited the account. I dont 
think Mr Hs age alone ought to have been indicative to Revolut that he was vulnerable or 
incapable of making independent financial decisions. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr H isnt liable for 
unauthorised transactions, unless Mr H failed with gross negligence of intent to comply with 
the terms of the account or keep personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Mr H authorised the transactions that has been disputed  and so, 
in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payments or gave 
consent for someone else to complete them. 
Here, Mr H accepts that he entered into an investment with P prior to opening his Revolut 
account. He also says Ps representative suggested he open an account with Revolut and 
this was all guided by them and he has no knowledge of Revolut. However, Ive reviewed 
some in-app chats Mr H had with Revolut and Ive seen that his account was limited in 
October 2022. Revolut explained it needed to carry out further security checks. Ive seen that 
Mr H didnt reply to Revoluts contact but also didnt use his Revolut account again until 
December 2022. Mr H contacted Revolut on 22 December 2022 to explain he was trying to 
deposit funds to his Revolut account but each time he tried it said his account was limited. 
Revolut asked Mr H to take a photo of himself along with the date and time of his request. 
Ive seen that Mr H provided this information but Revolut asked for better images. Mr H 
provided multiple images within seconds and minutes of Revoluts requests, so Im satisfied 
this was him communicating with Revolut. I dont think it would be possible for a fraudster to 
have intercepted Revoluts in-app chat with enough time to trick Mr H into providing the 
specific evidence requested of Mr H  specifically around the date and time of his requests. 
Particularly as he explained he doesnt recall providing any third party with remote access to 
his computer. 
Revolut then asked a number of questions of Mr H. Amongst those questions, Mr H was 
asked;
Have you received any calls recently from anyone telling you to create a Revolut 
account and encouraging you to make an outbound transfer
Mr H answered no to this question. 
Mr H was asked to list the devices he used for his Revolut account, he said mobile only. 
Mr H was also asked the purpose of the account, he said it was for investments. He was 
asked whether someone offered him an investment proposal and whether he did prior research. He said; No Ive made investments having carried out research myself at all 
times. Mr H was instructed to change his password for the purposes of (amongst other 
things), One Time Passwords. He did so and Mr Hs account was fully operational on 23 
December 2022. 
Ive seen that prior to the disputed payments being made, Mr H funded his Revolut account 
from one of his external bank accounts with another provider. And the specific amounts that 
were transferred in, were subsequently paid to C the same day of the payments being 
received. Even if I accept Mr Hs account with Revolut was compromised, it doesnt explain 
how a third party would have also compromised his security credentials with one of his other 
banking providers and why there was a gap in payments. If both of Mr Hs accounts were 
compromised, I think its likely a fraudster would have tried to take out as much as possible, 
as quickly as possible and there were also existing funds in Mr Hs Revolut account that 
werent utilised with the initial disputed transaction. 
Ive also seen that the transactions were made using Mr Hs Revolut debit card. They also 
went through a further layer of security by being authorised via 3DS  which would have 
included Mr H receiving a notification in his Revolut app that required the password Im 
satisfied he set up himself. The payments were also made using the same mobile device. 
Im therefore satisfied the disputed payments were authorised and authenticated. 
Given the existing relationship Mr H had with P and his explanation that the purpose of the 
account was for investments with them; Im satisfied his intention was to send funds to his 
trading account with P prior to the disputed transactions being made. Ive also seen that he 
took steps to operationalise his account some days before the disputed transactions were 
made and that he funded his Revolut account from an external banking provider. Im 
therefore satisfied Mr H also consented to the disputed payments being made as he doesnt 
appear to have been aware that P were scammers at the time they were paid. And his 
testimony explains that he realised P was a scam when he couldnt withdraw his profits  
which seems to be after the disputed transactions were made. As this is the case, I think its 
most likely that he funded his investment account with P with the disputed transactions and 
would have consented to the payments being made. 
At the time Mr H made his payments, payment service providers (PSPs) like Revolut were 
expected to process payments a customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good 
industry practice, PSPs should take proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions 
 particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: PSPs had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
All of the payments were sent to an account in Mr Hs name. It was from that account that 
crypto would have been purchased and sent to the scam wallet, so Ive factored this into my 
decision. 
I dont think the first payment of £3,000 to C was unusual. Mr H had already explained to 
Revolut that he intended to use his account for investment purposes. He also explained hed 
conducted his own checks into his investment opportunity and wasnt asked by any third 
party to open an account with Revolut. I therefore dont think this transaction would have 
appeared all that unusual in light of what Revolut was aware of. 
Mr Hs account was subsequently restricted but this is because Revolut wanted to verify the 
source of funds. Once it was able to do so, Mr H was permitted to make the second payment of £802. I dont think Revolut ought to have provided any additional warnings to Mr H at this 
point because it didnt have concerns about payments out of Mr Hs account. Once it was 
satisfied the payment in was legitimate, it permitted the payment out  which was of low 
value and I dont think unusual or suspicious in appearance. 
I dont think Revolut ought to have reasonably suspected that Mr Hs account was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud to warrant an intervention. I also dont think it could have provided 
a better warning to Mr H because his answers to Revoluts general questions prior to the 
disputed payments wouldnt have given it cause to provide him with a more meaningful 
warning. This is because Mr H didnt answer entirely truthfully to the questions put to him 
and so I dont think Revolut would have been concerned about the potential payments out of 
the account. So, I dont think Revolut missed an opportunity to prevent the scam.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party provided any additional comment for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from what Ive said.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman