DRN-2382881
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in the 
1980s. Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK PLC, trading at the time as National & Provincial 
Building Society, mis-sold them this PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Santander throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and they said they didnt think 
we should uphold it. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion; they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in making a decision 
about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
There is very little information left about these sales. There is only limited point of sale 
paperwork, but given how long ago these sales were, this isnt unusual. Businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely, so Ive used my experience to help me think about what 
is most likely to have happened. Santander was also able to recover some archived 
material. It is possible Mr and Mrs W cant be sure of everything either, for example if both or 
just one of them was covered by the PPI. But we do know now that a policy to help cover 
their mortgage repayments against unemployment or sickness was taken out firstly in 1984 
with their original borrowing, and again in 1988 when they were borrowing more money.
No specific allegation was made on their behalf to the effect that Mr and Mrs W hadnt asked 
for these policies. My general experience is that they would probably have needed to provide 
their consent and I doubt if theyd have signed up for a second policy, if they hadnt already 
agreed to the first. I also think they would have needed to authorise the monthly premiums 
for the PPI to leave their bank account by filling out a direct debit instruction. So, overall, I 
think its reasonable to say they consented to the cover in 1984 and 1988.
The main thrust of their complaint seems to relate to the suitability of PPI. Their 
representative said they already enjoyed sick pay with their respective jobs. However, the 
information provided about their circumstances seems somewhat unclear. I note our 
adjudicator asked the representative for clarification on a number of fronts, but none was 
received.  
Its likely that Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W as part of an advised sale 
on both occasions. It therefore had a duty to check that the PPI was right for them. Ive 
considered this with care and Im satisfied the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ws likely 
circumstances of the time, shows that the PPI wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for 
them. For example, both appear to have been eligible for the PPI and although they may 
have had some sick pay with their jobs, this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt 
suitable; it could have paid out a monthly sum for up to two years if successfully claimed on. 
The mortgage would also have been secured against their home, so not being able to keep 
up repayments could have been a serious matter for Mr and Mrs W. 
I think the PPI was suitable and it being recommended to them wasnt unreasonable.  
Also, there was nothing obvious about their occupation(s) which would have made it difficult 
for them to make a successful claim on the policy, in my view. Information supplied about 
pre-existing health matters was incomplete. So they havent told us about any medical 
conditions that could have affected their ability to claim and there were no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
Its certainly possible the information Santander gave to Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. However, in my view, this doesnt alter my overall decision. 
There is as much to say there were told enough  as there is to say otherwise, and I think 
they specifically wanted this type of cover. The cover was not too dissimilar to what they 
probably thought they were buying from the information they were given at the point of sale. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable for them, starting at around £5 per month and rising 
over the years slightly, so it seems like it would have been useful if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have declined the cover, even if Santander 
had done more or explained things better.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought carefully about all these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
and Mrs W, but this means Santander UK PLC doesnt have to do anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman