DRN-2103987
The complaint
Ms A complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined her claim against her travel insurance 
policy. Reference to AXA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In October 2019, Ms A bought an annual travel insurance policy. She planned to travel for a 
year. On 17 March 2020 - whilst Ms A was travelling - the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad because of covid-19 
(coronavirus). On 20 March 2020, Ms A contacted AXA about her situation. She booked a 
flight which cost over £1,700 and returned to the UK on 22 March 2020. On the following 
day, the FCO advised all UK tourists abroad to return home.  
In April 2020, Ms A made a claim against her policy for the cost of her flight back to the UK 
and for taxi costs. AXA declined Ms As claim. It said that the policy only covered unused 
flights or accommodation and, as Ms A didnt have a flight home booked at the outset, the 
policy didnt cover her claim. Ms A didnt think that was fair and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had treated 
Ms A unfairly. That was because Ms A didnt have unused travel costs, as she hadnt 
previously booked her flight home, so the policy didnt cover the cost of the flight. 
Ms A didnt think that was fair. She asked whos responsible for the cost when the FCO tells 
travellers to come home. Ms A said that she was following FCO advice and expected to be 
protected. She asked what would have happened if she couldnt afford to travel home or if 
the country she was in shut its borders. Ms A said that insurance is supposed to protect 
against unforeseen circumstances and what happened here was unforeseen. She thinks its 
reasonable for AXA to deduct a sum equivalent to a budget flight  which is what shed have 
had to pay in normal circumstances  but that it isnt fair to expect her to cover all the 
expenses incurred as a result of following government advice. 
Ms A asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me. In this 
decision, Im dealing with Ms As complaint about AXAs refusal of her claim. Im aware that 
Ms A has or had other concerns about a flight booked by a friend on her behalf but Im not 
dealing with that in this decision, as she hasnt complained about that to AXA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
SECTION 1  CANCELLING OR CUTTING SHORT A TRIP
[]
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of your irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
if you need to cancel or cut short your trip following any of the reasons which are shown in 
the table below.
One of the reasons in the table referred to is:
The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory 
authority in a country on which you are travelling advising against all travel or all but 
essential travel to the area you are travelling to/in
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Ms As complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly. I say 
that because:
Insurance policies dont cover every circumstance a traveller might encounter. In  
general terms, insurers can decide which risks they want to cover. In the 
circumstances that arose here, Ms As policy covers unused travel costs which she 
cant recover from elsewhere. 
Ms A didnt have unused travel costs, as she didnt have an original flight home 
booked when she decided to return home early. So, AXA didnt act unfairly in 
declining Ms As claim, as the policy doesnt cover the circumstances Ms A found 
herself in.  
I can quite understand that this was a worrying time for Ms A and that she feels shes 
out of pocket, but for the reasons Ive explained, her policy doesnt cover the cost of 
her return flight. 
Ms A asked what might have happened in different scenarios. Im dealing with what 
happened here and I dont think its helpful or necessary to speculate about what 
might have happened in different circumstances. 
I dont think AXAs explanation to Ms A was entirely clear. In its final response to    
Ms A, AXA didnt quote the most relevant part of the policy. But it did explain that   
Ms As claim wasnt covered because she didnt have a return flight booked in the 
first place, which was right. So, I dont think AXAs response affects the outcome of 
the complaint. 
Ms A says its reasonable for AXA to deduct a sum equivalent to a budget flight  
which is what shed have had to pay in normal circumstances  but that it isnt fair to 
expect her to cover all the expenses incurred as a result of following government 
advice. Im afraid I dont agree. There are no grounds on which to direct AXA to go 
beyond the terms and conditions of the policy and pay Ms As claim, either in full or in 
part. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay the claim in the 
circumstances of this case. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman