DRN-3501589
The complaint
Miss K complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDF) imposed a charge for 
goods which she had returned and this affected her credit rating.
What happened
In 2016 Miss K sent an item back to SDF, but it wasnt received. Her account was credited, 
but this was later reversed. Miss K says she was told on numerous occasions this sum 
would be removed, but SDF passed the debt to a debt collections agency. Miss K was 
concerned that the account would be defaulted so she paid the sum due.
Several years later she became aware that her credit rating had been affected and she was 
told that she wouldnt qualify for a mortgage. She complained to SDF and it upheld the 
complaint. It said that even though she couldnt provide proof that the item had been 
returned the account should have been credited. It arranged for the overpayment to be 
returned to her and for any adverse entries relating to this debt to be removed from her 
credit file.
Miss K remained unhappy and she brought a complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. He initially upheld the complaint and suggested that 
SDF pay Miss K £200 compensation. Miss K didnt think this was sufficient and SDF 
reviewed the matter again. It said that the original complaint handler had made a mistake. It 
said there was no proof of the item being returned and it had issued statements to Miss K 
every 28 days so she was aware of the balance of her account.
It also supplied details of it returns policy which were available online. SDF said that it 
brought the account back from the debt collection agency, amended her credit file and £140 
had been reimbursed. It didnt believe any compensation was due. Miss K said she would 
send phone records to chow the calls she had made to SDF, but I have not seen these.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is regrettable that the original SDF complaint handler came to the wrong conclusion. I have 
noted the returns procedure and I am satisfied that while the goods may have been returned 
by Miss K they were not received back. That means that SDF needed some form of proof 
that they had been returned. I have seen no evidence that this proof was supplied by Miss K.
I appreciate she was young at this time and decided to pay the sum due rather than pursue it 
further. I can understand why she did that. However, I am satisfied that SDF took the correct 
action in re-debiting her account for money owed and when payment wasnt received the 
debt was passed to a debt collection agency.
That said, the outcome of her complaint is that SDF has repaid the money to Miss K and her 
credit file has been amended. Neither of these would have happened had the complaint 
handler not made a mistake and I think Miss K has benefited from SDFs actions. She had 
the money refunded and her credit file is no longer affected and so she should not have an 
issue obtaining credit unless there are other issues with her credit rating.
I do not consider SDF has done anything wrong other than uphold her complaint and I can 
only conclude that no further compensation is merited.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman