DRN-4074642
The complaint
Mr A has complained that a car he acquired, using finance from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr A entered into a finance agreement with Moneybarn, for a used car. It was just under 
eight years old, and had around 94,860 miles on the clock. 
Four months later, Mr A complained to Moneybarn. He said that a rear brake wouldnt 
release. After the car had been recovered to the dealership, repairs were carried out and he 
was told there were problems with the calliper and cylinder.
Shortly afterwards, there were further issues. Specifically, the brake lights were on 
continuously, cruise control wouldnt work, the windscreen wipers broke and the engine 
seized.
Mr A told Moneybarn he wants a refund or replacement, as the car is dangerous and not of 
satisfactory quality. Moneybarn acknowledged receipt of the complaint, but later wrote to Mr 
A to say it would need longer to look into things. It also said Mr A could complaint to our 
service, which he did. His complaint concerns both the quality of the car, and Moneybarns 
lack of response.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He said he was satisfied that there were faults with the car, based on 
repair estimates that have been provided, and an RAC report.
However, our investigator was also mindful of the cars age and mileage. Also, its price was 
lower than if it had been supplied new. So, it would be reasonable to expect it had suffered 
notable wear and tear. Accordingly, it would likely need repairs and maintenance sooner 
than a newer car.
Our investigator explained that he needed to be persuaded that the faults were present 
when the car was supplied to Mr A, and that there was an inherent defect with the car, as 
opposed to it having wear and tear. But he was satisfied that the problems had been caused 
by wear and tear. This was particularly so, given theres no evidence of any issues for the 
first four months.
Our investigator also looked at the customer service Mr A had received. He was satisfied 
that there had been reasonable communication between Mr A and Moneybarn in the lead up 
to the complaint. As regards the delay, he thought Moneybarn had behaved correctly in 
telling Mr A he could complain to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr As car was just under eight years old, with significant mileage. And, where Ive been 
provided with evidence of specific faults, Im satisfied that these are wear and tear items, 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the car.
As regards customer service, Im satisfied that it was reasonable overall. Although 
Moneybarn didnt respond to every message Mr A sent, it did address his queries. And while 
its not ideal that it was unable to conclude its investigation in the given timeframe, it acted 
correctly in explaining this to Mr A, and referring him to our service.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr A, but Im not persuaded the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman