DRN-4354074
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to treat him fairly 
when he reached the selected retirement date on his pension plan.  
What happened
Mr S held pension savings with Prudential. Those pension savings arose from plans that had 
originally been started in 1994 and 2000 with another firm that was subsequently acquired 
by Prudential. The pension plan had a selected retirement date of Mr Ss 65th birthday in 
April 2023.
Mr S says that he selected the original pension provider, and that he left his pension savings 
with Prudential after the change of ownership, as he intended to purchase an annuity from 
the firm when he reached the selected retirement age. He says that all the information hed 
received over the years had led him to believe that he would be able to purchase that 
annuity from Prudential on retirement in a seamless manner.
But Prudential had decided, a number of years earlier, to no longer offer annuities itself 
except in some specific circumstances such as when guaranteed benefits needed to be 
paid. So it had formed a partnership with another firm that would search the market to 
provide information on the available rates to its customers wanting to take an annuity.
In January 2023 Prudential wrote to Mr S to remind him that his selected retirement date 
was approaching, and to enquire how he wished to take his pension benefits. It also 
reminded Mr S that he didnt need to make any decision at that time and could defer his 
retirement to a date of his choosing, providing it was before his 75th birthday.
Mr S says that he initially faced some difficulties getting in touch with Prudential by 
telephone. So he sent an online message to Prudential advising that he intended to 
purchase an annuity when he reached the retirement date, and asking for details of how he 
could obtain quotations of the available rates.
Around a week later Prudential called Mr S. He says that on that call he was surprised to 
learn that Prudential no longer offered annuities itself and that he would need to be referred 
to the partner firm. He says he was asked at that time if he wished to move his pension 
savings into cash to protect its value from any market movements. Mr S declined that offer, 
as he says he expected his annuity to be put into payment by his selected retirement date 
the following April.
Mr S says he regularly monitored the value of his pension savings over the following weeks, 
and it remained relatively stable. But, around the date he had selected for his retirement, he 
says the value fell by around 3%. Mr S says that Prudential has failed to explain why that fall 
happened, and so concludes it is most likely due to a scheduled adjustment to the rates 
made by Prudential. 
The day following his 65th birthday Prudential wrote to Mr S to say that it had automatically 
extended his retirement date to his 75th birthday as he hadnt taken his pension benefits. But 
it reminded Mr S that he would still be able to take those benefits at any time. Prudential 
later said that letter had been sent in error, and Mr S could disregard it.
I can see that Mr S decided to purchase an annuity from another firm. Prudential received a 
request to transfer his pension savings to that firm around a week after Mr Ss 65th birthday. 
The funds were sent shortly afterwards (with their value backdated to the date the transfer 
request was received), and I understand that Mr Ss annuity is now in payment.
When it looked at Mr Ss complaint Prudential agreed that the level of service it had provided 
to him hadnt been as good as it would have hoped. So it paid him £175 as an apology for 
the inconvenience hed been caused. But Prudential didnt agree that it needed to provide 
Mr S with his annuity directly, or that it was responsible for any falls in the value of his 
pension investments. Unhappy with that response Mr S brought his complaint to us.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think Prudential 
had done anything wrong when it stopped offering annuities directly. And he didnt think 
Prudential had been responsible for the change in the value of Mr Ss pension investments. 
The investigator thought that the compensation Prudential had paid Mr S for his 
inconvenience was fair. So the investigator didnt think Prudential needed to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr S has been holding pension savings with Prudential, and the firm with which his plans 
were first started, for almost 30 years. So it isnt surprising that, when he reached the age at 
which he planned to make use of those pension savings, Mr S expected things to proceed 
smoothly. He says that he had kept his pension savings with Prudential, even after the 
original firm was taken over, since he found receiving an annuity from Prudential to be 
attractive.
But Prudential hasnt directly offered annuities to consumers (except in some limited 
circumstances) for a number of years. It doesnt seem that decision was something that Mr S 
had been made aware of. He says that if he had been told of Prudentials decision he might 
have decided to move his pension savings to another firm, or cashed them in entirely.I can understand Mr Ss frustration and disappointment when he learned he would be unable 
to take his annuity from Prudential. But what I need to consider here is whether Prudential 
has done something wrong, and most importantly whether that has caused Mr S to lose out.
I have no way of knowing whether Mr S would have decided to transfer his pension savings 
had he been told that he wouldnt be able to take an annuity from Prudential. But what I think 
is important for me to consider is whether a decision to transfer the pension savings would 
have ultimately resulted in Mr S receiving a higher pension income.
Mr Ss pension savings were invested in Prudentials with-profits fund. But Mr S was able to 
select alternative investments if he thought they might be more appropriate to his 
circumstances. That was something he was told on each of the annual statements that he 
was sent. And Prudential didnt make any charges for switching investments, although a 
market value reduction (MVR) might have applied at certain times. But a MVR would also 
similarly have applied had Mr S decided to move his pension savings to another firm, or 
cash them in.
Ive not seen anything to make me think that Mr S was attracted by other investment 
opportunities with another firm that werent available through his Prudential pension plan. So 
Im not persuaded that moving his pension investments to another firm would have resulted 
in them having a higher value at retirement than the savings with Prudential had. So I dont 
think not knowing earlier about Prudential not offering annuities has caused Mr S to lose out 
in terms of having less pension savings at retirement.
Prudential put Mr S in touch with its partner that looked across the annuity market to find the 
best rates that Mr S could receive. So Im satisfied that the annuities available to Mr S would 
have been at least as good as those he would have received had he moved to another 
provider. And on balance I think it most likely they would have been better. It would have 
been fortuitous had Mr S been able to select the provider offering the best annuity rates at 
his retirement date when he might have transferred his pension savings many years earlier. 
So I dont think needing to take an annuity from another provider using an open market 
search will have caused Mr S any financial loss either.
Mr Ss pension savings were transferred to the annuity provider just a week after his 
65th birthday. I appreciate that Mr S says they had fallen in value in the time shortly before 
his birthday. But I havent seen anything that makes me think those falls in value were as a 
result of any direct actions by Prudential  instead I think they simply reflected changes in 
the value of the underlying assets held in the with-profits funds.
When Mr S spoke with Prudential in February, it asked him whether he wanted to move his 
pension investments into cash in preparation for his forthcoming annuity purchase. Mr S 
says that he declined that offer, thinking that the markets were relatively stable and that it 
was thought unlikely that the final bonus rates declared by Prudential that month would be 
later reduced.
I think it is important to remember that Prudential was not Mr Ss financial advisor. So it 
couldnt advise him on the suitability of his investments or recommend any changes that it 
might be beneficial for him to make. Those were essentially decisions that Mr S needed to 
make for himself. And even if, as Mr S thinks might be the case, the reduction in the value of 
his pension investments was due to a correction applied by Prudential, that isnt something 
that its staff would have been aware of ahead of time. Warning customers of such a 
forthcoming change would defeat the object of any corrective actions taken by the fund 
managers.The annual statements that Mr S had been sent over the years provided him with estimates 
of the annuity that might be available from his pension savings at retirement. But I dont 
agree with Mr S that the wording of that information gave any assurance that hed be able to 
purchase the annuity from Prudential itself. And I dont think that the original terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss pension plan gave that assurance either. They simply told him that 
annuities will be purchased from Scottish Amicable [the original provider] or from any other 
insurer as provided for in the Rules
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr S but the evidence doesnt 
persuade me that Prudential has done anything wrong that has caused him to lose out. 
I dont think it unreasonable that Prudential stopped offering annuities to its customers. And 
although Mr S might have been unaware of that decision, I dont think he would have acted 
differently in such a way that his pension annuity would be higher.
But I think it is right that Prudential has recognised that the matters underpinning this 
complaint will have caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience.  Ive thought carefully 
about the amount of compensation that I think would be appropriate in the circumstances 
here. My conclusion is that the £175 that Prudential has already paid to Mr S is in line with 
what I would normally award in cases such as this. So I dont think Prudential needs to pay 
anything more to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman