DRN-2765358
The complaint
Miss R complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow was irresponsible in its lending 
to her. Miss R is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I will refer to Miss R 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Miss R was provided with four loans by cash4unow between November 2018 and August 
2020. The details are set out below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £300 6 07/11/2018 29/01/2019
2 £150 6 04/03/2019 14/06/2019
3 £170 6 14/06/2019 17/04/2020
4 £180 6 13/08/2020
Miss R says that cash4unow didnt carry out adequate affordability checks before the loans 
were provided to ensure that they were sustainably affordable.
Cash4unow says that before the loans were provided it carried out credit and affordability 
checks. It said that the loan amounts were relatively small compared to Miss Rs income and 
that the information it gathered didnt raise concerns about the lending. It noted that Miss R 
had made use of short term lending previously but said the information didnt suggest she 
was reliant on this. Although it didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint it offered as a gesture of 
goodwill to remove all interest applied to the final loan so that Miss R only paid the principal 
amount borrowed.
Miss R didnt accept cash4unows offer and referred her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He said that before the first loan was provided a credit 
check was undertaken and that this showed Miss R was struggling to manage her money. 
He noted Miss R had other short term loans outstanding at the time and thought cash4unow 
should have realised that lending to Miss R wasnt sustainably affordable. Because of this he 
upheld Miss Rs complaint in relation to all four loans and recommended that the interest and 
charges on these loans be refunded.
Cash4unow responded to our adjudicators view. It accepted that loan 1 should be upheld 
but didnt agree that loans 2 to 4 should be upheld. It said that loan 2 was for a lower amount 
than loan 1 and Miss R only had two active short term loans at the time which it said wasnt 
excessive. It said taking this into account the loan still appeared affordable. When loan 3 
was applied for it said Miss R had no outstanding short term loans and she hadnt accessed 
these within the previous six months. Again, it said this loan appeared affordable. It also 
noted the gap in Miss Rs borrowing.
Miss R didnt agree with cash4unows response of only upholding loan 1.
As a resolution hasnt been reached, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Miss R could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint.
Before the loans were provided credit and affordability checks were carried out. It is 
reasonable to expect that the information gathered through this process was assessed to 
establish whether lending to Miss R was sustainably affordable. Before loan 1 was provided, 
the credit check showed that Miss R had three outstanding short term loans with a total 
balance of £630. I think this should have raised concerns that Miss R was struggling to manage her money. Because of this I dont think this loan should have been considered 
sustainably affordable and therefore shouldnt have been provided. I note that cash4unow 
agreed to this loan being upheld. 
Miss R repaid loan 1 early and then took out another loan just over a month later. At this 
time the credit check carried out showed two other short term loans totalling £280. While this 
is a lower amount and I note cash4unows comments about this, I do not find that Miss Rs 
financial situation had changed significantly from when her previous loan was provided. She 
was still making use of short term lending and the total balances on loans had increased 
from just over £600 recorded before loan 1 to over £3,000 recorded before loan 2. I find that 
the information gathered before loan 2 should have raised concerns that Miss R was still 
struggling to manage her money raising concerns about whether lending to her at this time 
was sustainable.
Miss R repaid loan 2 and took out a loan for a slightly larger amount on the same day. I note 
the comments cash4unow has made about the size of the loans but having looked at the 
information it gathered I still find that it should have been concerned about the sustainability 
of the repayments. Taking out a loan on the day a previous loan is repaid should raise 
concerns that Miss R was needing to borrow more to afford the previous loan repayment. 
The credit check at this time showed Miss R had around £3,000 in other loans and while I 
accept the information gathered showed her use of short term loans had reduced, overall I 
do not find that the information suggested her financial situation had changed significantly 
from when the previous loans were provided. On balance I think that the information 
gathered combined with Miss R taking the loan out on the day the previous loan was 
provided should have raised concerns about the sustainability of the loan.
As I think the first three loans should be upheld, I would need to be satisfied that Miss Rs 
financial circumstances had improved significantly in order to say it was reasonable that loan 
4 be provided. I note the break in the lending, but I do not think this was long enough to be 
able to say that the situation present before the previous loans was no longer relevant. I 
appreciate the comment made about there being no short term loans recorded and I also 
note that Miss Rs total loan balance had reduced. However, I do not find that this 
information is sufficient to say that Miss Rs situation no longer raised concerns. This was 
her fourth loan and the amounts borrowed for loan 2 to 4 increased slightly each time. She 
was at the limit on her revolving credit and had over £900 of other debts. Therefore I do not 
find that I am satisfied that enough had changed before this loan was provided to be able to 
say this loan should have been considered sustainably affordable.
Overall, I think the information gathered before the loans were provided to Miss R raised 
concerns about Miss Rs ability to manage her money and should have raised concerns 
about the sustainability of the lending. Therefore, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow should:
Refund Miss R all interest and charges paid on the loans with no outstanding balance 
along with 8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If loan 4 is still outstanding then all interest and charges on this loan should be 
waived and any payments made towards the loan should be treated as though they 
were payments of capital. If this results in overpayments these should be refunded to 
Miss R along with 8% simple interest* from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. If, after applying the payments to loan 4 there is still an outstanding 
balance then the refund from the other loans can be offset and if there is still an 
amount outstanding cash4unow should work with Miss R to agree an affordable 
repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file relating to these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. Cash4unow 
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
cash4unow intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do 
so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman