DRN-3718256
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments she says she didnt make 
with her credit card.
What happened
Mrs R says she lost her credit card and so she didnt make two payments abroad on 4 
January 2022. The total she disputes with exchange fees is £2,112.47. 
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding this money. Mrs R had confirmed shed kept the PIN with 
the card. And so, shed not kept her details safe and had been grossly negligent.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the money refunded with 
any interest, fees and charges. HSBC didnt dispute that Mrs R had lost the card and not 
made these payments. So, she hadnt authorised them. As these involved the use of credit, 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applied, and meant that a consumer wouldnt be liable for any 
loss arising from the loss of a credit facility unless the consumer had consented to its use.
Mrs R accepted our investigators recommendations. HSBC said that it didnt. It agreed that 
Mrs R didnt use the facility but it referred to its terms and conditions and the requirement to 
take reasonable steps to stop the account being used for fraud and that this could be by 
not keeping your PIN or passwords with the card or making it easy for someone else to find 
them. It intended to provide further clarification of its position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.  
The position here is that these payments were made with the genuine card and PIN and so 
authenticated. I note that this was the second claim of fraud Mrs R had made within a month 
 the earlier one while she was on holiday in December 2021. Her card involved then and it 
seems PIN had been replaced after shed reported fraudulent payments and signed a 
declaration about those on 22 December 2021. Shed used the new card having stored the 
details for online payments and so said she didnt notice it missing until she received her 
statement dated 10 January 2022. These disputed payments had been made abroad in a 
different country to the previous claim. And Mrs R said neither she nor any close family 
member left the country at that time. HSBC hasnt investigated authorisation any further and 
seems to have relied in any event on her not taking sufficient care of her card details. 
Theres also no recording of her reporting the payments. So, taking all that into account and 
the position of HSBC I wont fairly go behind its conclusion that these payments werent 
authorised.
Through our investigator I asked HSBC to clarify its position on the complaint pointing out 
that the terms and conditions Id seen for its credit cards referred to the agreement being 
regulated under the CCA. And I also highlighted the following term with my emphasis added:
2.3 If you, or an additional cardholder, allow someone else to use a card or the card 
number, youll be responsible for any transactions they make. But youll only be responsible 
up until you tell us that the card may be misused. You should tell us using the contact 
details below. You wont be responsible for any other transactions you or an additional 
cardholder havent authorised. That includes transactions made with the card or card 
number remotely (for example over the Internet, phone or by mail order). Well refund those 
straight away.
HSBC didnt provide any further comments. While I understand why HSBC has concerns 
about the way Mrs R kept her PIN with her card I need to apply the regulations in thinking 
about her responsibility for what happened. Taking the relevant part of the CCA referred to 
by our investigator into account and the seemingly consistent term of the card agreement 
above I dont see a reasonable basis here on which HSBC can hold Mrs R responsible for 
these unauthorised payments. So, I agree they should be refunded in the way set out by our 
investigator.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1) Refund the disputed payments to Mrs Rs account.
2) Refund any interest, fees and charges relating to these payments to her account 
from the date the payments were debited to the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman