DRN-3044105
The complaint and background
Mr B complains Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt adjust the end date of his wedding 
insurance policy. The wedding was scheduled for June 2020. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, 
the venue was forced to close. He rearranged the wedding to February 2021 at no cost. 
In April 2020, Mr B asked the policy administrator whether the end date of his policy 
could be adjusted to cover the rearranged wedding. The administrator responded with an 
FAQ document which suggested Mr B was eligible for an adjustment. It provided a phone 
number which is associated with Great Lakes claims handling agent.
In July 2020, Mr B sent further emails to the administrator explaining hed made three 
attempts to arrange the adjustment with no success. When this email wasnt responded to, 
he sent the request to a different email address that was associated with Great Lakes 
underwriting agent. He was told it had been forwarded to the relevant team. Some while 
later, in September 2020, he received an email from the claims handling agent saying the 
request had been sent to them in error, and was referred back to the administrator.
Mr B referred a complaint to us towards the end of 2020. We notified Great Lakes that wed 
received the complaint in January 2021. From May 2021, our investigator shared information 
with Great Lakes about Mr B and his request including his policy number and policy wording, 
which gave the scheme number. Great Lakes said it couldnt locate Mr B as a customer. 
In June 2021, our investigator said she was satisfied Mr B was a customer of Great Lakes. 
She felt Great Lakes should have agreed to Mr Bs request, noting that she was aware of it 
agreeing to adjustments for other policyholders in similar circumstances, and said it should 
pay £250 compensation for not doing so earlier. By then the wedding had been rearranged 
twice more, first to June 2021 and then to February 2022, so she recommended Great Lakes 
adjust the end date of the policy to that date. 
Great Lakes replied saying it was still investigating and hadnt issued a final response letter. 
We said it had missed the opportunity to do so because more than eight weeks had passed 
since we notified it of the complaint. It stopped replying, so I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is Mr B a customer of Great Lakes? 
Mr B has sent us a policy schedule, bearing the administrators branding, which identifies 
him as the policyholder. It shows the start and end dates of the policy, the sum insured, the 
cover Mr B selected and the premium paid. Hes also sent us his policy number, which starts 
with the administrators initials, and policy wording, which contains the scheme number. 
The policy literature Mr B is in possession of says this insurance is underwritten by {agent} 
on behalf of Great Lakes Insurance SE. I note the administrators website includes links to 
various important documents, including an insurance product information document, policy 
summary and policy wording, which all say these policies are underwritten by Great Lakes. 
As such, in the absence of any evidence from Great Lakes to contradict what Mr B has sent 
us, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr B held a live wedding insurance policy that was 
underwritten by Great Lakes when he first requested the adjustment in April 2020. 
Would it have been reasonable for Great Lakes to adjust the end date of the policy?
Were aware through our involvement in other cases of examples where Great Lakes has 
agreed to adjust the end dates for policyholders who were able to rearrange their weddings 
at no cost. 
This is fair because, where the original wedding hasnt gone ahead due to an insured event, 
it allows the unused sum insured to be transferred to the rearranged wedding. Its helpful to 
policyholders because many insurers have stopped offering new wedding insurance policies 
since the pandemic began. Great Lakes approach to this appears to be set out in an FAQ 
document the administrator sent to Mr B in April 2020, which said:
 If I can rearrange my wedding date at no cost to us am I able to change the date of 
my wedding on my policy free of charge?
Yes  if the rearranged wedding date does not exceed 24 months from the date your 
original wedding was due to take place, is rearranged because of an insured peril, 
and has to be on the condition that you have not already claimed against your 
policy. 
Mr Bs wedding was, at first, rearranged at no cost because of an insured event. The original 
wedding couldnt go ahead due to the booked venue.. being unable to hold Your Wedding 
due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease or closure of the venue by the 
relevant authority. So, I see no reason why Great Lakes wouldnt have been prepared to 
adjust the end date of the policy to cover the first rearranged wedding date as per the above.
The first rearranged date fell in February 2021, when weddings were banned except for in 
exceptional circumstances. It was therefore rearranged to June 2021, with Mr B losing £382 
of a deposit to a florist. From May 2021, weddings could go ahead with 30 guests, but Mr B 
opted to rearrange the wedding to February 2022. He incurred no costs in doing so.
Had Great Lakes handled Mr Bs request as it should have done, Mr B could presumably 
have claimed on the policy for the cost of rearranging the wedding from February 2021 to 
June 2021. Thats because the venue was again unable to hold the wedding due to an 
outbreak of infectious disease. Im not sure Id then have expected Great Lakes to adjust the 
policy end date a second or third time. But Mr B says its unlikely theyd have made a claim.
In that scenario, I cant see that it really makes any difference to Great Lakes whether Mr B 
rearranged to February 2022 from the outset or in stages. Its still within its tolerance of two 
years from the original wedding date, and it hasnt been presented with any claims to pay in 
relation to any of the rearrangements. And due to its handling of the request, the policy end 
date was never actually adjusted to February 2021 or June 2021 anyway.
Overall, I think it would be fair for Great Lakes to agree to adjust the policy to February 2022, 
assuming Mr B doesnt wish to claim in relation to the lost deposit to the florist. Is it fair that Great Lakes should pay Mr B compensation and, if so, how much?
Throughout these events, which have spanned well over a year, Mr B has had no certainty 
as to what cover, if any, was in place for his rearranged wedding dates. This would have 
added to Mr Bs anxiety about the wedding at an already uncertain time. Im satisfied the 
amount our investigator suggested (£250) is a fair reflection of that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
adjust the end date of Mr Bs policy to cover his rearranged wedding date in February 2022. 
I also direct it to pay him £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman