DRN-3572239
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed the money she says shes lost to 
a scam.
Whats happened?
Ms W says she found a builder to carry out renovation work on her property through a 
popular trade directory. Between 5 and 20 November 2021, she transferred a total of 
£13,693.69 in deposit payments to the builders bank account. But the builder didnt carry out 
any work on her property, and they intentionally damaged her roof.
The builder refunded £2,000 on 25 November 2021 and agreed to refund the rest of Ms Ws 
money over time, but no further refunds have been received. 
Ms W contacted Santander for assistance, but the bank declined to reimburse her remaining 
£11,693.69 loss because it said that this matter is a civil dispute between Ms W and a 
legitimate builder who, unfortunately, turned out to be untrustworthy. Santander said its not 
a true scam because there is no social engineering element, the builder existed, and Ms W 
made legitimate payments for services.
Ms W asked this Service to investigate a complaint against Santander. She said that the 
conclusions its drawn are incorrect, and investigations carried out by Trading Standards and 
her legal representative after the scam have shown that the builder: 
has no trading history.
provided a fraudulent insurance certificate.
has used a fake address.
is not running a registered company as stated.
Ms W has told us that, because Santander wouldnt reimburse her financial loss, she has 
been unable to instruct essential renovations on her property to make it habitable, so she 
has been living in a caravan with her family.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator concluded that Ms W has fallen victim to a scam here, and that Santander 
shouldve reimbursed the money she lost under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). They recommended that Santander reimburse Ms Ws 
remaining loss and pay interest from the date it declined to reimburse her under the Code to 
the date of settlement. They also recommended that Santander pay Ms W £500 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused her by refusing to reimburse her when 
she first contacted it.
Santander didnt agree, it said:
when Ms W made the payments, she confirmed that they were for building work and 
Santander provided a relevant scam warning.
Ms W has been educated about this type of scam before when a builder shed 
instructed didnt carry out work of a satisfactory quality on her property.
Ms W says she wasnt comfortable paying the builder £10,000 upfront, but she paid 
over more money than this in smaller amounts.
the builder attended Ms Ws property with materials, so she wouldnt have suspected 
they were a rogue trader and Santander couldnt have prevented the scam.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has signed up to the CRM Code, and it was in force when Ms W paid the builder. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the CRM Code is 
quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Ive considered the evidence Ms W has provided, including the photos of her property shes 
sent us and the evidence weve received from Trading Standards and her legal 
representative. Having done so, Im not persuaded that the builder is a legitimate supplier of 
services. I acknowledge that the builder refunded Ms W with £2,000 on 25 November 2021, 
and this is undoubtedly unusual in cases of fraud. I also understand the builder did attend 
Ms Ws property to do some work, but they damaged the property without carrying out the 
work they were paid for and from what I know of fraud and scams, it isnt unusual for 
fraudsters operating this type of scam to pretend to carry out some building work in order to 
keep the scam alive and obtain more money from their victims. Everything else Ive seen 
supports what Ms W has said about how shes fallen victim to a scam  Ive seen that: 
the work Ms W paid for was not started and/or completed.
the builder caused damage to her property, which I wouldnt expect a legitimate 
builder to do.
the builder gave her an incorrect address and showed Ms W a fake insurance 
document. 
the builder has no trading history.
Overall, Im satisfied that the builder set out to defraud Ms W, having no intention of carrying 
out the work she paid for. So, I dont think DS2(2)(b) applies here.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams, like the one Ms W has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Santander has argued that two of the exceptions apply in this case. Its said that Ms W 
ignored an effective warning/s it gave during the payment journey/s and she made the 
payments to the builder without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the 
person or business she was transacting with was legitimate.
Effective warning
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have an impact 
on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer. 
Santander has said that its warned Ms W about this type of scam in the past, and Ive 
looked at the evidence the banks referred to. But I dont consider the information it gave to 
be timely or specific enough in relation to the payments Ms W made to the builder to be 
considered an effective warning under the CRM Code. Ive moved on to think about the 
warning Santander says it gave during the relevant payment journey/s. The warning is set 
out below:
Could this be a doorstep scam? Please double-check the bank details personally with your 
payee, as criminals intercept emails with false details. If someone is pressuring you, please 
stop now.
Overall, Im not satisfied it can reasonably be said that Santander met the requirements of 
the effective warning exception with the warning it gave Ms W. The information Santander 
gave wasnt specific  it wasnt relevant to the type of scam Ms W fell victim to, it talks about 
checking payee details are correct, email interception scams and coercion but it doesnt talk 
about scams by fraudulent traders. I dont think the information was impactful either  it 
doesnt set out the potential consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment and 
considering everything, Im not persuaded it would affect a customers decision making, in 
the situation Ms W was in, in a manner whereby the likelihood of a scam succeeding was 
reduced, or that a reasonable person would fully understand the scam risk from the warning 
Santander gave.
Reasonable basis for belief
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Ms W had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. 
She sourced the builder using a popular and trusted trade directory  a directory that claims 
to provide trader recommendations that can be relied upon because of vetting thats been 
carried out. And the builder met her in person, showing her an insurance certificate that 
doesnt look unprofessional or suspicious. The parties talked about the work that needed 
doing to Ms Ws property and she made deposit payments that were relevant and 
proportionate for each section of work after declining to pay over a non-specific £10,000 lump sum. It is not unusual for customers to make deposit payments for building work, to 
cover the cost of things like the materials required to commence work. Overall, I can 
understand why the fraud went undetected by Ms W and I dont think this is unreasonable in 
the circumstances  particularly as Santander failed to adequately explain the scam risk.
Conclusions
Im satisfied that Ms W has been defrauded here, and that Santander should have 
reimbursed her under the CRM Code because none of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply. So, it should now reimburse her remaining financial loss and pay 
interest at 8% per annum on that loss from the date it should have reimbursed her under the 
Code to the date of settlement.
Ms W has found herself in an unenviable situation as a result of this scam  shes been left 
without sufficient funds to make her property habitable and so, shes been living in a caravan 
for a significant period with her young family. Ms W has explained that the situation has left 
her desperate and has affected her mental health. I am mindful that her loss was ultimately 
caused by the callous acts of fraudsters. But, if Santander had reimbursed her under the 
provisions of the CRM Code when it ought to have done, then much of the trouble and upset 
Ms W has experienced could have been avoided. For this reason, I am satisfied that an 
award of £500 compensation is appropriate in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Santander UK Plc should:
reimburse Ms Ws remaining financial loss - £11,693.69  and pay interest at a rate 
of 8% per annum on this amount from the date the bank should have refunded Ms W 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement*; plus
pay Ms W £500 for the trouble and upset it has caused her.
*If Santander considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this, if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman