DRN-3396847
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) didnt reimburse her 
after she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Mrs T has lost out on almost £600, Ive reached the 
same overall conclusion as our investigator. I know Mrs T feels strongly about this complaint 
and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
- The first consideration here is whether Mrs T was scammed. Its clear that Mrs T 
didnt receive the goods she paid for  but it doesnt necessarily follow that this was a 
scam. It seems that the company was legitimate at least at some stage, with goods 
being received by others, and with positive reviews to support this. But it appears that 
the company then went into liquidation. I note that theres some reference online to 
continued sales once it became apparent the business couldnt continue. But, while I 
accept that, if true, this would feel unfair on Mrs T who has now lost her money, I 
dont think this means the company was operating a scam (i.e., set up with the 
intention of defrauding customers). 
- Mrs T feels strongly that now Virgin Money has signed up to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, she should be reimbursed for the payment she 
made. But the CRM code only applies where the consumer has been the victim of a 
scam and isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of goods or 
services. And it isnt retrospective. Virgin Money signed up to the code from 
28 February 2022. But as the payment Mrs T made was in April 2021, the CRM code 
doesnt apply  even if I had concluded that Mrs T was scammed. 
- While I find that the CRM code doesnt apply, this wouldnt be the end of the matter in 
the case of a scam payment. Its common ground that Mrs T authorised the payment 
of just under £600, albeit not realising she was potentially being scammed or, at 
least, not going to receive the item shed paid for. So, as she authorised the 
payment, the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  
is that shed be liable for the transactions.
- However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Virgin Money to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In 
some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional 
checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold Virgin Money liable.
- Ive considered whether Virgin Money would have been expected to have made 
additional checks on the disputed payments. And I dont think it would have. I say this 
because the payment was relatively low. I recognise a loss of this amount has 
impacted Mrs T, and Im sorry that shes been left out of pocket. But its not an 
amount that I would consider to be significantly unusual or out of character, 
especially when compared with Mrs Ts usual spending on her account for example, 
Ive seen payments of £2,700 and £1,730 in the months leading up to this payment. 
- Ive then thought about what actions Virgin Money took to recover the funds when 
Mrs T reported the matter. It did attempt to recover the funds, but theyd already been 
removed from the account. I cant reasonably expect Virgin Money to have done 
more.
- Mrs T believes that, despite what Ive explained above, Virgin Money should refund 
the money as a gesture of goodwill, as others in the same situation have had their 
money back. But I cant reasonably ask Virgin Money to reimburse Mrs T as a 
gesture of goodwill  this defeats the purpose of goodwill payment. I dont consider 
that its acted in error here, so I wont be asking it to take any further action.
While Im sorry that Mrs T has lost this money, and Im sorry about the circumstances 
surrounding this matter, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman