DRN-1536542
The complaint
Mr B has complained about BISL Limiteds administration of his home insurance policy when 
it was due for renewal.
What happened
Mr B held home insurance cover through BISL. On 2 August 2019, while he was on holiday, 
he received an email from BISL saying that because he hadnt renewed his policy by 
midnight on 1 August 2019, his cover had now expired.
Mr B immediately rang BISL. Its representative said that BISL had sent him a renewal offer 
in an email on 12 July 2019 and by post on 15 July 2019 but that because he hadnt 
confirmed acceptance, this offer was no longer available. Mr B said he had left for holiday on 
20 July and hadnt received anything by that time. He asked BISL for a new quote. However, 
upon checking, the representative advised Mr B that none of the insurers on its panel were 
prepared to offer cover due to a claim which he had made earlier that year.
The next day, Mr B spoke to someone else at BISL and asked for a copy of the renewal 
email which had been sent to him. The representative said that while the renewal offer had 
been placed on BISLs online portal where Mr B could access it, no email had been sent.
Mr B eventually took out a new policy with another insurer but at a higher cost than BISLs 
renewal offer. He complained to BISL about its handling of the renewal. 
BISL didnt accept that it had done anything wrong in respect of the renewal as it had sent 
the offer to Mr B by post in advance of the renewal date. It said the onus was on the 
customer to be aware of when the policy was due to renew. However, it acknowledged that 
Mr B had been wrongly informed that the renewal offer had also been sent by email. It 
offered £15 compensation for this plus £5 towards the cost of Mr Bs subsequent telephone 
call.
Mr B didnt accept BISLs offer. He referred his complaint to us. He thought BISL should 
compensate him the difference between its renewal offer and the price he was now paying 
for his insurance, and to continue doing so for the next five years while he built up his no-
claims discount.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that BISL had acted fairly.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that BISL had lied to him about its 
email communication of the renewal offer and that this lie had caused him financial 
disadvantage. He thought its offer of £15 compensation was inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had opted out of allowing his policy to renew automatically. BISL therefore wrote to him 
on 15 July 2019 outlining the renewal offer and inviting him to confirm acceptance before his 
existing cover expired. BISL has provided evidence from which Im satisfied that this letter 
was sent. Im satisfied that the letter was sent sufficiently in advance of the renewal date to 
allow Mr B reasonable time to consider the offer.
It is unfortunate that the letter apparently wasnt received by 20 July 2019 when Mr B went 
on holiday. However, I cant reasonably hold BISL responsible for any failures on the part of 
the postal service. This meant that Mr B didnt get to see the renewal offer before his existing 
cover expired. However, while this was again unfortunate, it wasnt BISLs fault. It wasnt to 
know that Mr B was going to be away from home and, given hed opted out of auto-renewal, 
I consider it was up to Mr B to be aware of when his policy was due for renewal.
When Mr B discovered that the existing policy had expired and the renewal offer was no 
longer available, he asked BISL to quote for a new policy. However, when BISL asked its 
panel of insurers to provide a quote, none was prepared to offer cover in light of Mr Bs 
recent claim. BISL isnt an insurance company itself and so I dont consider there is anything 
more it could reasonably do to help Mr B obtain cover once the deadline for accepting the 
renewal offer had passed.
Clearly, this situation may have been avoided if BISL had sent the renewal offer by email as 
well as by post. I can therefore appreciate Mr Bs frustration. However, I cant see anything 
to indicate BISL was obliged to do this or had promised to do so. I therefore consider the 
postal communication was sufficient.
When Mr B first spoke to BISL, it wrongly told him that the renewal offer had also been sent 
by post. When Mr B queried this, it acknowledged this information was wrong. However, 
I dont consider that the provision of the wrong information had any financial impact on Mr B, 
beyond perhaps causing him to incur the cost of a further phone call. By the time he was 
given the wrong information, the deadline for accepting the renewal offer had already 
passed. And as I have explained, I dont consider that BISL was obliged to have sent the 
renewal offer by email as well as by post. I therefore consider its offer of £15 compensation 
plus £5 towards the cost of Mr Bs further phone call was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman