DRN-3379749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) changed the 
password on their laptop when it had been sent to them for repair under their contents 
insurance policy. This led to them having problems signing back into their laptop. They also 
complain that RSA failed to respond to their complaint in a timely manner.
Mr and Mrs N have other complaints with RSA. I wont discuss those here.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N have contents insurance with RSA. They made a claim which included 
damage to their laptop. When their laptop was returned to them, they said they couldnt sign 
into it. They said RSA told them when theyd collected it to include the password with the 
laptop. And that they had taped the password inside the laptop when theyd sent it to RSA. 
But that when it was returned, their original password no longer worked. 
Mr and Mrs N said they contacted RSA to ask them to give their laptop access back. But 
they said that RSA claimed that Mr and Mrs N hadnt sent the password with the laptop. And 
that they didnt use Mr and Mrs Ns password to access their laptop. 
Mr and Mrs N said that later on, they discovered that the three profiles on their laptop had 
been deleted. And that the original password had been reset to password. From what I 
understand, Mr and Mrs N can now access their laptop.  
Mr and Mrs N said theyd asked RSA to look at the CCTV from the engineers area, as they 
felt it would show that the laptop had been sent in with the original password clearly taped to 
the laptop. They said there was no way RSAs engineers couldve accessed the laptop 
without the password. So they felt RSA mustve used an illegal method to do so. Mr and Mrs 
N felt that this is what deleted the information and removed the password. They complained 
to RSA in July 2021. 
In their final response letter, dated 12 November 2021, RSA upheld the complaint in part. 
They acknowledged that theyd taken too long to review the complaint. And offered £100 
compensation for the overall service theyd provided. They said theyd spoken to the two 
companies who carried out inspections on the laptop and confirmed the works they carried 
out. And both companies confirmed the works undertaken wouldnt have affected the 
password. Whilst they apologised for any inconvenience caused, they said they werent 
liable for the issue.
I understand that Mr and Mrs N rejected the £100 compensation RSA had offered. And 
asked this service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained why he couldnt 
comment on RSAs offer of compensation for delays in responding to the complaint. He 
didnt think hed seen any evidence to suggest that either RSA, or the two companies they 
used to assess the laptop, changed the password. 
Mr and Mrs N disagreed with our investigator. They didnt consider that any of the possible 
methods for resetting their laptop wouldve led to the position in which it was returned to 
them. They said it would be possible to check their position with the laptops manufacturer. 
They also told this service that they were very stressed by the issues theyd had with RSA. 
And that this was having a negative impact on their health. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs N. 
But I dont consider that Ive seen enough evidence that RSA changed the password. Ill 
explain why. 
It should be noted that my role here is to decide if RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably. My 
role isnt to find out exactly how the original laptop password stopped working. But it is to 
decide, on balance of probabilities, whether RSA did something wrong. 
I first considered whether there was evidence that RSA changed the password when the 
laptop was in their care. To do this, I also considered whether RSA received Mr and Mrs Ns 
original password with their laptop. 
Mr and Mrs N said that they sent the password in with the laptop. They questioned why RSA 
asked them to send the password if they didnt need it. They said it mustve been received 
because when theyd called RSA for help to access the returned laptop, the call handler 
repeated the password theyd sent in back to them and asked them to see if it still worked. 
Mr and Mrs N said that they sent the laptop in with a 4-digit password, but that it was 
returned with the password password. They said this was a common word used by 
engineers to access and reformat laptops.
Mr and Mrs N also said that the laptops manufacturer told them that if the original password 
hadnt been used, RSA mustve used illegal means to access it. And that this must have 
deleted the original password. They also provided information about what they considered 
were the only two methods of resetting a laptop. And the impact those methods wouldve 
had on the laptop. 
RSA acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ns request to review CCTV from the engineers area to 
confirm that the password had been sent in with the laptop. They felt that it was unlikely that 
the CCTV would pick up that level of detail. But they asked their engineers. They were told 
that there is no CCTV available, as they dont film the unpackaging of items sent to them. 
RSA said that their engineers didnt remember finding a piece of paper being in the laptop 
box. They said this would be unusual, as they generally advise against sending passwords 
this way. But that if a password had been sent in it wouldve been put in the confidential 
waste bin and destroyed.
RSA said that they inspected the laptop for cosmetic damage, internal damage and forensic 
examination of the hard drive. They said that generally with laptops data isnt wiped, unless 
the hard drive was found to be corrupt, or needed replacement due to the damage. They 
also noted that, as their call handler had advised when Mr and Mrs N first made their claim, 
that they cannot guarantee data, and that a laptop should be backed up before collection. 
They said that for Mr and Mrs Ns laptop, no repairs were carried out. RSA also said theyd 
asked the two engineers whod inspected the laptop to provide their comments and confirm the works they carried out. They said that both had confirmed the works they carried out 
wouldnt have affected the password.  
RSA also said that they dont change passwords or edit any customer data if it is present on 
a laptop. And that they had no notes or records from the work that had been carried out on 
their behalf that theyd had to change the password at any point. They also said theyd had 
to make multiple requests for the password before the they could get one that worked. So 
they didnt agree that theyd edited or changed either the password or the profile details on 
the laptop. 
RSA also explained how they considered the three user profiles on the laptop couldve been 
wiped. 
Ive listened to the initial claim call between Mrs N and RSA. And Ive also carefully 
considered all the information both parties have shared with this service.
When Mrs N first notified RSA of her laptop claim, the call agent asked her if any of the 
devices in the claim had passwords. Mrs N said all of them did. The call agent told her to do 
a backup. And to remove all passwords if possible. She also said that if RSA needed to carry 
out repairs they would have to do a factory reset.
Having carefully considered all the information presented, Im persuaded that RSA didnt 
change the password or actively delete the three profiles. I say this because I consider that if 
they had, they wouldve noted it had been required. So a record of the change would exist. 
But nothing has been recorded. This doesnt mean I dont believe that Mr and Mrs N sent in 
the password with their laptop. It simply means that, having looked at all the evidence, I 
consider its more likely than not that RSA didnt do anything to the laptop which caused the 
password to be changed or to delete the three profiles. 
I do acknowledge that Mr and Mrs N said they had to use a different password to eventually 
access their laptop after it was returned to them. But Ive seen no other evidence to suggest 
that RSA changed the password while the laptop was with them. 
Ill now consider RSAs offer of compensation for their delay in responding to Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. 
I agree with our investigator that this service can only look at complaints about regulated 
activities. And that a complaint about the complaints process is not one that we are 
authorized to consider. 
However, I understand that RSAs offer of £100 compensation is still open to Mr and Mrs N 
should they choose to accept it.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint. Im very sorry that this complaint has caused Mrs 
N so much stress and affected her health. But Ive not seen enough evidence that RSA 
changed the password or deleted the three user profiles to fairly uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman