DRN-3196375
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) following the return of his car.
What happened
On 24 May 2018, Mr I was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for £65,104 over 48 months, with 48 monthly payments of £928 
and a final optional payment of £20,550, if Mr I wanted to purchase the car. 
In June 2021 Mr I arranged to return the car when he took the option to voluntary terminate 
the agreement. Mr I said the car was collected on 29 June 2021 in good weather conditions. 
Mr I says the collection agent told him there would be no charges as hed found no damage 
outside of the vehicle return standards. Mr I said that hed inspected the car himself before it 
was collected and said there was no damage to the roof. He said he was familiar with the 
return process as hed returned vehicles this way on five previous occasions.
Mr I said he received an invoice a few weeks later for charges of £5,928: for damage to two 
wheels, a scratch inside the boot, and a cut in the convertible roof.
He said he complained to MBFS and they agreed to remove the charge for the damage to 
the two wheels.  He said he was certain there was no damage to the roof of the car when it 
was inspected. He said if there had been he wouldve had it repaired through his insurance.
He said MBFS had told him in an email I found these damages were not present at the time 
and believe the damage was not caused by yourself. He said this was an admission by 
MBFS that the car had been damaged after it left his property.
MBFS said that Mr I was liable for the damage to the right-hand load area (the boot) trim 
panel. And they confirmed the second inspection had shown a cut to the soft top roof, and a 
replacement was required. They said the damage was in line with their Vehicle Return 
Standards (VRS). 
Mr I was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr I for the damage in the boot, and to 
the roof. She said the photograph of the damage in the boot exceeded the allowance in the 
VRS.
She said she reviewed the photographs and videos of the roof. She said the damage to the 
roof wasnt clear in the video taken when the car was collected. She said this was because 
there was debris on the roof, and this was likely to be why the damage wasnt noted at the 
time. 
Mr I didnt agree with the investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr I was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement, which Mr I signed on 24 May 2018. Under 
the heading Vehicle Return Standards (VRS), the agreement explains what is, and isnt, 
considered acceptable damage under the VRS. It also explains that when the vehicle is 
returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre.
Mr I said hed been through this process on five previous occasions.  So, Im satisfied he 
shouldve been reasonably aware of what level of damage was and wasnt acceptable to 
MBFS when the car was returned. And he should also have been reasonably aware that a 
further inspection would take place once the car had been returned to MBFS, regardless of 
whether an inspection also took place at the point of collection as well.
Ive seen a copy of the initial report completed by the collection agent on 29 June 2021, and 
signed by Mr I. In the section headed Inspection results, the condition of the vehicle has 
been left blank, and the result is noted as second inspection required. So it was clear that 
this wasnt the final report. I appreciate that Mr I says the agent collecting the car told him 
there would be no charges. But both the VRS and the report make clear that a further 
inspection would take place.
The second report is dated 6 July 2021. It describes the damage to the roof as a cut 
between 10mm and 30mm. And says the roof needs to be replaced, at a cost of £5,673. It 
also describes the scuff in the boot area as being over 25 mm and requiring repair, costing 
£35.
Mr I hasnt complained about the damage in the boot area. Ive reviewed the photographs 
provided and Im satisfied the scuffs are greater than allowed in the VRS. So Im satisfied its 
reasonable for MBFS to charge for this damage.
Mr I is adamant that the cut to the soft top roof wasnt present when the car was collected 
from his property. Ive looked at the photographs taken at the second inspection. I can see a 
tear. This is visible next to the ruler used to measure the tear. Im satisfied the tear is present 
and is more than 10mm  it appears to me to be about 25mmm in length.
Ive looked at the video taken at the time of the first inspection at Mr Is property. Ive 
reviewed the video carefully, and the tear isnt visible. The roof is dirty, and covered in what 
looks like leaves, bird droppings, and other marks.  Whilst the video concentrates on the 
body work, the video of the roof is in small snatches, and is no clearer when paused. So I 
dont find the evidence conclusive. In other words, the video doesnt help me say whether or 
not the tear was present at the time.So I then have to consider if I think the tear couldve happened after the car was removed by 
MBFS. Whilst this is possible, Ive not seen any evidence to support this. MBFS said their 
agent confirmed the car wasnt damaged in transit or whilst in their possession. And Im 
aware its their policy to report all damage caused after a vehicle has been collected.
The tear is shown on the photographs taken at the second inspection. And because I cant 
rely on the video from the first inspection, Im persuaded that the tear was present, and was 
more likely to have happened before the car was taken by MBFS.
The VRS state the car should be free from any broken or damaged items. Ive also 
considered the guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). This guidance provides an industry-wide set of accepted standards that define fair 
wear and tear on vehicles when they are returned at the end of a lease or finance 
agreement. These state: Coverable roofs must be fully operative and free from damage, 
rips and tears. 
So Im satisfied that under both MBFSs VRS and the BVRLA guidance, its fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr I for the damage to the roof. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr I, but I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging for the damage to the car and I wont be asking them to amend their 
invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman