DRN-3739292
The complaint
Ms A complains Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac has unfairly declined a 
claim shes made on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
References I make to Allied World and Ms A include respective agents and representatives 
unless stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Ms A was gifted a property in June 2020 by a family member. The property was 
rented out to tenants that same month.
The property was insured under a Landlords buildings insurance policy underwritten 
by Allied World. The policy was incepted in October 2020.
The relationship with the tenants was difficult and they were evicted in summer 2021. 
Following this Ms A noticed damage and cracking to the property which she reported 
to Allied World in August 2021 to make a claim on the policy.
Allied World initially said online sales images showed the damage existed in 2013 but 
subsequently accepted these images were in fact from 2021. Its surveyor inspected 
the property and later CCTV drain inspections were also undertaken. The surveyor 
concluded the damage was historic and the claim was declined as Allied World said 
the damage pre-existed policy inception and was therefore excluded under the policy 
terms.
Ms A disagreed and said the damage had happened after policy inception. She 
pointed at comments in November 2021 from a building control surveyor from the 
local city council which said the property was unsafe and had deteriorated rapidly. 
But this didnt alter Allied Worlds decision.
Eventually Ms A appointed a structural engineer to consider the damage. In May 
2022 he reported on the damage and the remedial work required to restore the 
property. Towards the end of June 2022, he provided more comments and said it 
was difficult to say exactly when the structural movement started. But he said it was 
clear the movement had been going on for at least 12  18 months. He estimated the 
cracks at the property were also likely between 12 and 18 months old. 
But this still didnt change Allied Worlds decision so Ms A raised a complaint with this 
Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence and concluded Allied World had 
fairly declined the claim. 
She was persuaded by Allied Worlds expert opinion that the cracks had been 
ongoing for some time and had been previously filled and had then cracked again. 
Additionally, she thought comments on a planning application from June 2020 which 
said the property was experiencing structural damage supported Allied Worlds 
position.
Ms A asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a policyholder makes a claim on the policy, the onus is on them to show the 
claim is covered by the policy. When an insurer relies on an exclusion to decline a 
claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. The terms of an insurance 
policy define what the parties can expect from the cover and Im unlikely to tell an 
insurer to pay a claim if its not covered under the policy terms.
Ill be keeping this in mind when looking at this complaint together with what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
Allied World relied on the following exclusion within the policy terms to decline the 
claim: We will not cover you or be liable for4. Events Before the Policy Started. 
Loss, damage or legal liability arising out of an incident that happened before the 
policy started.
So I need to decide if its more likely than not the subsidence and consequent 
damage occurred before or after policy inception and therefore whether Allied World 
fairly declined the claim. 
Allied Worlds evidence 
Allied Worlds surveyor undertook a visit to the property in September 2021. Her 
professional opinion was the subsidence and damage seen was likely to have started 
several years previously, and before the date of policy inception in October 2020.
The report was accompanied by photographic evidence detailing the areas of 
damage and noting that a number of these had occurred some time ago, had been 
repaired and then had re-cracked. It also identified areas of damage which the author 
considered to be old due to the nature of the smoother edges around the gap and 
where there had been water ingress resulting in darker cracks which had also 
occurred sometime before.
Subsequent to this, as part of the further investigation into the damage, a drainage 
expert was appointed to undertake a CCTV survey of the drains. This identified that 
leaking, blocked and defective drains were the cause of the subsidence. The 
surveyor said, the severity and extent of the issues showed the damage was long 
standing and was pre policy inception. 
I also note a copy of the city council planning application documentation in June 2020 
contains the comment House has structural damage, work needs doing, plans look 
fair. 
While this supports Allied Worlds view, the comment appears to be that of a member 
of the public expressing their opinion about the planning application rather than the 
opinion of a qualified professional, so I dont find this particularly persuasive.Ms As evidence
Theres conflicting information about whether a building survey was undertaken when 
the property was purchased by the family member or when it was transferred to Ms 
A. But, in short, theres no contemporaneous evidence available detailing the 
condition of the property at the time.
Ms A has presented a number of opinions she says support her position. Of these, in 
my view, her engineer was best placed to provide his opinion due to his qualifications 
and the two visits he undertook to the property to inspect the damage and remedial 
work required. 
His initial report makes no comment about the likely start of the subsidence and 
damage. But he was subsequently asked by Ms A to provide his opinion on this in 
June 2022. He acknowledged it was very difficult to be certain when the structural 
movement first started but, in his view, it had been ongoing for at least 12 to 18 
months. 
In my view, this doesnt contradict the findings from Allied Worlds engineer as it 
seems to me the engineer thinks the damage could have been going on longer than 
12 to 18 months. And while he estimates the cracking to be between 12 and 18 
months too theres no reasoning or explanation of why hes of this opinion on either 
of these issues. I also have to keep in mind here, these comments are from some 12 
months after Ms A first identified the damage.
I note the comments from the local city council building control surveyor in November 
2021 that the subsidence had deteriorated in a short time. But theres no further 
detail which provides any insight into when the subsidence and damage first 
occurred which, of course, is the crux of this complaint.
The city council planning department undertook a visit in connection with the 
planning application in 2020 and some years later provided a comment to say that 
structural damage hadnt been noted at the time of the visit. 
But Ive not been given anything that persuades me that an assessment of the 
structural integrity of the property would have formed part of this inspection rather 
than an assessment of the impact of the planned work to the property on the local 
area, neighbouring occupants and environment, for example.
Ms A obtained a quote for the property to be demolished and the contractor said he 
thought the cracks were recent and not historic. But theres no explanation why hes 
of this opinion and in the absence of any supporting arguments or reasoning, I dont 
find this comment particularly persuasive.
Overall
Ive kept in mind the policy was incepted in October 2020 and the damage was 
identified by Ms A just nine months later in July 2021. Ive considered this case with 
this in mind and weighed up the evidence presented by the parties very carefully.
And having done so, on balance, Im more persuaded by the evidence presented by 
Allied World and the professional opinion of its surveyor. 
This report is the most detailed and provides the most comprehensive explanation of 
the likely timescales. The photographic evidence supports the view that the cracking occurred, was patched up and then re-cracked and this would have happened over a 
longer time period. 
Its also backed up by a comprehensive assessment of the drains which were found 
to be the underlying cause of the subsidence.  The surveyors professional opinion 
was that the level of damage identified in the drain survey could have only happened 
over an extended period of time, likely over several years. and not within the nine 
months from policy inception to the discovery of the damage.
On balance, Im persuaded its more likely the subsidence and damage to the 
property started before the policy was incepted. 
It follows Im satisfied Allied World fairly declined the claim under the exclusion 
detailed above. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman