DRN-1824326
 
The complaint
Mrs A disputes the end of term refurbishment charge she has been asked to pay, to replace 
a damaged door, by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs A acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs A responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in that condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photograph of the damage that is provided in the inspection 
report. I think the damage is clearly in excess of what would be considered fair wear 
and tear under the guidance, which says that dents in excess of 15mm are 
unacceptable, and that dents on the swage line are also not acceptable.
I can see that the repair centre that completed the repair referred to the dent as a 
minor dent. I think that would suggest they thought it readily repairable and that 
they didnt consider it a borderline decision whether to replace the door or repair the 
dent. 
The subsequent collection inspection didnt identify any damage to either door but did 
identify some other damage. I think that would suggest there wasnt any damage to 
the door when the car was collected from Mrs A and I dont therefore think MBFS 
have been fair to subsequently levy a further charge for a replacement door.
MBFS have provided evidence that a door was replaced on the car but given the 
previous inspection results I think it wasnt fair to replace the door and charge Mrs A 
for it, because: 
oIt would surely have been reasonable to have contacted Mrs A to discuss 
their new findings as they knew shed repaired the door and that their initial 
findings revealed no damage. It cant be fair to suddenly raise a new, 
unexpected, charge without further consultation.
oIm not persuaded by the evidence provided that it would have been likely a 
replacement was required. I think, if that was the case, it would have been 
evident to the inspector who collected the car and to the repairers who noted 
it was a minor dent.  
Putting things right
I think MBFS should therefore waive the charge they have made to replace the door.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to waive the charge for the replacement door.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman