DRN-4471329
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that BUPA Insurance Limited failed to let it know that its 
group private medical insurance policy had lapsed.
F is represented by Mr C.
What happened
F held a group private medical insurance policy with BUPA. The policy year was due to end 
on 27 April 2022. The contract was not set-up to auto-renew.
In February 2022, BUPA sent F a renewal quote which was addressed to Mr C. In early April 
2022, BUPA called Fs group secretary to check whether F intended to renew the policy and 
followed-up the call with an email. However, as BUPA didnt receive any contact from F, the 
policy was lapsed. BUPA sent F a no-contact communication but didnt send it a lapse 
letter.
The following year, F received marketing material from BUPA. Mr C says it was at this point 
that he realised the policy hadnt been renewed and so a complaint was made to BUPA.
BUPA acknowledged that it should have sent F a lapse letter. So it agreed to reinstate the 
group policy on the same underwriting terms with effect from 28 April 2022. But it told F that 
it would need to pay the backdated premiums in order for it to do so.
Mr C was unhappy with BUPAs position. He felt that as BUPA had failed to send a lapse 
letter, F shouldnt need to repay the full backdated premiums. He asked us to look into Fs 
complaint.
Our investigator thought that BUPA was entitled to require F to repay the full 2022-23 
premium in order for the policy to be reinstated. However, he thought its failure to send F a 
lapse letter had caused Mr C some trouble and upset. So he recommended that BUPA 
should pay Mr C £200 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 October 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
thought BUPA had already settled Fs complaint fairly. I said:
Its common ground that BUPA lapsed Fs policy on 28 April 2022 after it didnt receive an 
instruction to renew it. Its also accepted that BUPA failed to send F a letter to confirm that 
the policy had been lapsed, although it acknowledges that it should have done so. To 
recognise its error, BUPA offered to reinstate the policy on the same underwriting terms, with 
effect from 28 April 2022, if F paid the premiums it would have been charged for that policy 
year. So Ive gone to explore whether I think this was enough to put right its error.
Ive seen a copy of the renewal quote BUPA sent to F on 25 February 2022, along with a 
covering letter. This was addressed to Mr C, at what appears to have been the correct 
address. The quote set out the renewal terms BUPA was offering F for the 2022-23 policy. 
And the cover letter clearly stated: Its important that you call us before 28/4/2022 to confirm 
you want to renew your cover. If you dont, your cover will end and your employees will no 
longer be able to claim. The letter included a number for F to call if it wished to proceed with 
renewal. While I appreciate Mr C has said he didnt receive any renewal information, on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that this letter was sent, even if it wasnt received.
On 4 April 2022, BUPA called Fs group secretary. Ive listened to the call. In brief, BUPAs 
account manager explained that the renewal quote had been sent and that they were calling 
to check whether F wished to renew the policy. The group secretary explained that Mr C was 
away from the office, but that they would check the post and with Mr C and call BUPAs 
account manager back.
BUPAs account manager provided their contact number and also followed-up the call with 
an email which was sent to the group secretary on 4 April 2022. This email included the 
following:
I am contacting you regarding your renewal which is dueAs the scheme is not renewed 
automatically I will require confirmation on the following points
In my view, BUPAs paperwork made it sufficiently clear that the policy wouldnt auto-renew 
and that it would lapse if F didnt get in touch to confirm it wanted to renew the policy. I also 
think BUPA took reasonable steps to contact F to check whether or not it wanted to go 
ahead with renewal. There is no record that F contacted BUPA regarding the renewal prior 
to 28 April 2022 or to advise BUPA that it hadnt received the renewal quote. On that basis, 
the policy wasnt renewed. It seems that BUPAs account manager emailed Fs group 
secretary again in May 2022 to explain that theyd tried to contact F to discuss the renewal 
which had been due on 28 April 2022. Again, no contact was received from F until March 
2023, after it had received marketing material.
Generally, in my experience, most, if not all private medical insurers provide only a short 
window for lapsed policies to be reinstated on the same terms. After that point, most insurers 
will require an entirely new policy to be set-up, potentially on different underwriting terms. In 
this case, BUPA stepped outside of its usual process and offered to reinstate Fs policy on 
the same terms as if thered been no break in cover, around 11 months after the policy had 
lapsed. In my view, this was a fair and reasonable response from BUPA.
And in my view, BUPA was entitled to require F to pay premiums for that backdated cover. I 
dont think it would be fair for me to direct BUPA to write-off premiums it would otherwise be 
entitled to for providing cover for a backdated risk. Im mindful too that, as Ive explained, I 
think BUPA took reasonable and appropriate steps to check whether F wished to proceed 
with renewal. I dont think it would be proportionate for me to direct BUPA to reduce the 
backdated premiums when I think that Fs failure to get in touch with it was broadly 
responsible for the lapsing of the policy.
I do appreciate that it wouldve come as a shock to Mr C when he learned that the policy had 
been lapsed. But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to make an award for Fs 
inconvenience or wasted management time in this case. Thats because, as Ive said, I think 
BUPA made very reasonable steps to put things right and it offered to reinstate the policy 
very soon after F got in touch with it in March 2023. It seems Fs employees suffered little 
inconvenience during the period the policy had been lapsed and theres no evidence that F 
suffered any financial or consequential losses as a result of the failure to send a lapse letter. 
On that basis, Im not intending to direct BUPA to do anything more or to pay F any award 
for inconvenience.
I asked both parties to provide any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.BUPA didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr C indicated that F had received my provisional decision; that F didnt accept it and that he 
intended to write to me in response. However, he hasnt sent in any further information or 
comments by either of the deadlines we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators principles say that a firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence. And that it must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
I explained in my provisional decision that Id noted BUPA accepted it had made an error 
when it failed to send F a lapse letter following its cancellation of the policy. And I set out 
why I thought its offer to reinstate the policy - around 11 months after the lapse date, on the 
same terms and without any break in cover - was a fair and reasonable response to put right 
that mistake.
As neither party has provided me with any substantive additional comments or evidence by 
the deadline I gave, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. And so my final 
decision is the same as my provisional decision  I find that BUPA has already settled Fs 
complaint fairly. So Im not directing BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think BUPA has already settled this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman