DRN-1591442
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank unfairly charged him 
£15 for an unpaid direct debit.
What happened
Mr P says Yorkshire Bank tried to take an unauthorised direct debit payment of £34.45 from 
his account on 6 March 2019 which was unpaid due to there not being enough money in his 
account. He disputes that Yorkshire Bank sent him any warning text messages, and says it 
told him it would need to close his account to avoid this problem. Mr P says he was told to 
go back to the company that tried to claim the money and says the text messages only say a 
charge may be made. He says Yorkshire Bank's final response letter told him he would be 
charged the £15 for the direct debit return on 25 April 2019 but was charged on 24 April 
2019. Mr P would like the £15 charge refunded.
Yorkshire Bank  says it sent three text messages to Mr P telling him that the direct debit may 
be rejected due to insufficient money in the account. It says it made the £15 charge correctly 
and in line with account terms and conditions and that it's Mr P's responsibility to manage his 
account. Yorkshire Bank says it has cancelled the direct debit and applied the charge on 25 
April 2019. It also says its technical department has confirmed the text messages were sent 
to Mr P, and disputes it told Mr P he needed to close his account.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought that Yorkshire Bank's records provided evidence that the text messages 
were sent and that the account management was Mr P's responsibility in any event. The 
investigator listened to the call between the parties and didn't think Yorkshire Bank told Mr P 
he would need to close his account and thought the charge was made on 25 April 2019 in 
line with account terms and conditions.
Mr P doesn't accept that view and says if he received the text he could have taken action but 
in any event the text messages are not clear. He also says he had enough money in other 
accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr P would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see those terms and conditions say a £15 charge 
will be made for a returned direct debit. I'm satisfied that is what took place here, that a 
direct debit was rejected due to insufficient money in Mr P's account. So in those 
circumstances I don't think Yorkshire Bank made a mistake or acted unfairly be making that charge.
I appreciate Mr P questions if the direct debit was authorised. But I think it likely it was, as I 
have looked at Yorkshire Bank's records and can see that a previous direct debit was paid 
the previous year to the same company. And I'm satisfied Mr P knew to whom that payment 
was made and ought to have known if he had made previous payments to it or entered into 
an agreement in which he gave it his bank details for a direct debit payment to be set up.
I'm satisfied that having looked at Yorkshire Bank's records that it sent text messages to Mr 
P warning him about the direct debit and the lack of money in the account. I appreciate Mr P 
says he didn't receive those messages but I'm satisfied they were sent. In any event I think 
Mr P ought to take some responsibility for the management of his account and be aware of 
direct debit's linked to it. I appreciate Mr P says the text messages are misleading. But as he 
also says he didn't receive them, I don't think that point requires any finding by me and in 
any event such matters would be for the regulator of banks and building societies to look at.
I have listened to the call between the parties and I'm satisfied it was Mr P that said he 
would close his account and that at no stage did Yorkshire Bank say that was what needed 
to happen. And during that call he also accepted knowing the company that had claimed the 
direct debit.
Overall I'm satisfied that Yorkshire Bank hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly, and so I 
can't ask it to refund the charge. I also think the charge was made to Mr P's account on 25 
April 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman