DRN-2174355
The complaint
Mrs J says Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance & Leicester A&L) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2008. Mrs J applied for the loan 
and the PPI online and she paid monthly for the policy.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. A&L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint because I dont think that A&L gave her clear 
enough information about the policy. And I think that if Mrs J had been given better 
information its unlikely she wouldve taken out the policy. Heres why I say this.
From information Ive been provided with, I cant see that that the cost of the PPI wouldve 
been provided to Mrs J at any time before she agreed to buy the policy. It looks as if she 
needed to use an online loan calculator to get a price for the PPI. But this wasnt an 
essential step in the online application so I dont know if Mrs J did this. And even if Mrs J had 
used it, A&L says the calculator wouldve only provided an idea of the cost. 
A&L says that the cost of PPI was set out in a welcome pack sent with the credit agreement 
when the loan was approved. But by then, Mrs J had already been asked if she wanted to 
take out PPI, so she had already committed to buying it. 
I think that if Mrs J had been given information about the cost of the policy, it wouldve made 
a difference to her decision to take out the PPI. 
I dont think shes likely to have thought the policy wouldve been good value for money 
taking into account the monthly cost of the policy in relation to the cost of the monthly 
repayments. 
So I think its unlikely she wouldve taken the policy out had she been given better 
information about the cost. 
And for this reason, I think shes lost out because of what A&L did wrong. 
Putting things right
Mrs J should be put back in the position she wouldve been in now if shed taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. So A&L should:
Repay Mrs J the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, A&L can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
A&L has previously offered to repay a commission amount to Mrs J for the PPI sale. If that 
has already been paid, then A&L can deduct the sum already paid from the redress now 
due.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires A&L to take off tax from this interest. A&L must give 
Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance & Leicester) to pay Mrs J as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman