DRN-1436217
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK)Plc (TFS) isnt fit for purpose. She would either like a reduction in the 
price she paid. Or a refund of all her monthly payments.
What happened
Mrs R says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with TFS in February 2017 for a brand-
new car. She says in December 2017 she told the dealership of a problem with the 
windscreen frosting up inside. She says the dealership told her there was no problem. And 
advised her on how to use the car properly to avoid the problem recurring.
Mrs R then says she raised the problem when the car had its first service in March 2018. 
And says she was advised to bring the car back in when the weather turned colder if she still 
had the same problem.
In October 2018 Mrs R says she took the car back into the dealership as the car continued 
to have the same problem. At that point it was discovered there was  a problem with the air 
conditioning causing water to leak back into the car. She says the car was repaired but she 
has continued to have the same problem.
TFS said Mrs R s car was fully repaired in October 2018. Further testing was carried out 
when Mrs R said she continued to experience problems. But after a thorough review no 
dampness was found. It believed any ongoing issues could be as a result of several factors 
such as Mrs Rs use of the car, damp items being brought into the car, the weather or the 
location of the car. It didnt feel it was reasonable to allow Mrs R to reject the car given no 
fault could be found and she had now had the car for over two years.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She found although the problem first came to light 
more than six months after Mrs R had the car the fault would only have been apparent in the 
colder months. And as the problem was that the air conditioning pipe hadnt been correctly 
fitted it was more than likely this issue was present at the point of sale. She found the photo 
and video evidence Mrs R gave showed evidence of an ongoing problem.
She didnt think it was reasonable for Mrs R to have a refund of all her monthly payments 
since she had been able to use the car. But she recommended that TFS :-
-End the finance agreement with Mrs R
-Collect the car at no further cost to Mrs R
-Refund Mrs Rs deposit, with 8% simple interest, from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
-Pay £250 compensation for the inconvenience of garage visits 
-Remove any adverse information relating to the finance agreement from Mrs Rs 
credit file
Mrs R accepted this view but TFS didnt. It said the car had been fully water tested and no 
leakage had been found so there was no defect requiring repair. So, it felt any moisture 
trapped in the car was due to other issues such as   damp floor mats and clothes, incorrect 
demisting or incorrect use of the air conditioning/heater whilst driving.
It considered a video our investigator sent .But commented it showed snow conditions 
outside at the time which was an extreme weather condition. It said the manufacturer stated 
If the heating is on high, and the circulation not set for the vehicle or if a window if left open 
before a car is locked for the night then warm air will meet cold air causing moisture to cling 
to the windows. And in that in sub zero temperatures moisture will freeze.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She found the issue 
had been present from the point of sale. And she found the video evidence showed a level of 
frosting that was unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I dont think there is any dispute that Mrs R had a problem with  moisture in her car due to a 
problem with the air conditioning pipe causing water to leak into the dashboard and then into 
the car. This was identified in October 2018 some 18 months after she had the car.
We expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. And we usually say if problems arise 
within the first six months its the business responsibility to see if there were any issues 
present or developing at the point of sale. And if there are, we usually expect the business to 
resolve these.
I am mindful that Mrs R took out an agreement for a new car. As such I think she could 
reasonably have expected it to be fault free for some considerable time  more so than if for 
example her agreement had been for a used car. 
From the information I have I can see that Mrs R first raised this problem in  December 2017 
more than six months after she had the car. However, I agree with our investigators view 
here that the frosting up problem would only have been apparent in the colder months.  So, 
its likely the problem was there from the point of sale but just didnt show up due to the 
milder weather conditions of the time of year.
I appreciate TFS says the fault was rectified in October 2018.  But  as Mrs R continued to 
have the same problem of the car frosting up it arranged for the car to be inspected. From 
the inspection TFS concludes that the  likely on-going cause isnt related to the problem Mrs 
R had with the air conditioning pipe. But is more likely to be down to Mrs Rs use of the 
controls in the car, moisture being brought into the car or weather conditions rather than any 
ongoing fault.
I havent seen the actual report TFS commissioned although we did ask for this. However, I 
have considered very carefully the information TFS has given us. But I have to balance that 
with information Mrs R has provided. And I do find the video evidence she has supplied 
persuasive. The video shows a significant amount of frosting inside the car.
I am not persuaded that this can be put down to Mrs Rs sue of the car .From the information 
I have seen when Mrs R initially the problem had, she was shown how to use the cars 
controls in case this was the problem. So, she would have been aware of how to use the 
controls properly.Neither am I persuaded that the problem might be down to Mrs R bringing moisture into the 
car. Given the level of frosting evident in the video I think any moisture that Mrs R brought 
into the car would have to have been of such  volume I cant see how she would have been 
unaware of this.
And finally, although I accept weather conditions would have an impact it still seems to me 
the level of frosting, she has evidenced in her car is unacceptable.
On balance I think there was an issue present or developing at the point of sale. The video 
evidence persuades me there is still a problem with frosting that I think most consumers 
would find unacceptable particularly in a new car. 
Mrs R originally asked for a refund of all her monthly payments. I dont think this is 
reasonable as she has had use of the car. Mrs R accepted our investigators 
recommendation of rejecting the car and I think that is the best solution here . 
I also think our investigators recommendation of £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is reasonable for the ongoing problem with the car and associated garage 
visits. And to reflect the fact Mrs Rs enjoyment of a new car must have been affected by this 
ongoing issue.
My final decision
Y My final decision is that I uphold this complaint . In full and final settlement Toyota 
Financial Services should :-
-End the finance agreement with Mrs R
-Collect the car at no further cost to Mrs R
-Refund Mrs Rs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
-Pay £250 compensation for distress and  inconvenience 
-Remove any adverse information relating to the finance agreement from Mrs Rs 
credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman