DRN-4119215
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account.
What happened
Mr J had four accounts with Barclays. In August 2022, Barclays applied blocks to his 
accounts. While this happened, Barclays removed the funds and made it appear that the 
account was overdrawn by over £500,000. Dissatisfied, Mr J complained to Barclays, and 
referred the complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked at what happened. He didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly when 
it initially reviewed the account. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
Barclays subsequently closed Mr Js accounts. I see Mr J has raised this separately with 
Barclays, which has issued a separate final response. So in this decision Ill just be looking 
at Barclayss initial restriction of Mr Js account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses, like Barclays, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements. These 
mean that they may need to carry out reviews of customers accounts at any time. And while 
thats happening Barclays may need to block the account  and doesnt need to give 
reasons.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it restricted Mr Js account. 
Id expect Barclays to complete any review in a timely manner. Here, the account was 
blocked on 25 August 2022 and the review was completed on 6 September. Given 
everything Ive seen, I cant say there was undue delay.
I appreciate that Mr J would like to know more about why Barclays did what it did. But 
Barclays isnt required to provide this information, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell 
Barclays to share its reasons.
Finally, I note Barclays has explained that the reason the account appeared to be overdrawn 
by over £500,000 was because of the measures it put in place to prevent Mr J from using the 
account. Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr J. Mr J says that at first he thought 
hed might have been the victim of fraud  but after doing some research online realised this 
meant he was subject to some sort of review. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded to 
award further compensation for this.
In all the circumstances, I cant say that Barclays should have completed its review any 
faster. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint and Im not going to tell Barclays to do 
anything further to put things right.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman