DRN-3253918
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way Bamboo Limited handled his account with it.
What happened
Mr N was provided a loan by Bamboo in September 2018. Mr N began to fall into arrears 
with the loan almost immediately after taking it out. He entered into a debt management plan 
in October 2018 and began making reduced repayments at this point. This led to arrears 
developing on the account and resulted in Bamboo registering a default on this account 
dated August 2019.
Mr N is unhappy with the date the default has been applied. He says Bamboo should amend 
the date of the default to be earlier  he says in October 2018  as the delay in registering 
the default will have a longer impact on his credit file and finances.
Our investigator agreed with Mr N, in that he agreed Bamboo shouldve applied the default 
sooner. Bamboo disagreed and maintained that it had acted fairly in applying the default 
when it did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. This is broadly for the same 
reasons as our investigator highlighted. All parties agree the account should have defaulted; 
however Mr N believes Bamboo shouldve been more proactive in its corrective action.
Bamboo says it acted fairly in applying the default marker when it did. It says by that point in 
time Mr Ns account was 180 days in arrears. Bamboo says it followed the relevant rules and 
guidance when coming to this decision. It says had it applied the default earlier it wouldve 
been unfair to Mr N and Bamboo wouldnt have followed the appropriate process.
Ive considered Bamboos argument, but I disagree with it in this instance. Whilst I 
understand the point it is making; Im satisfied there is sufficient information on this complaint 
that demonstrates it shouldve started corrective action sooner. 
All parties accept that Mr N entered into the debt management plan very shortly after taking 
out the loan. Bamboo states it was aware of the debt management plan in October 2018 (the 
loan had been taken out in September 2018). At this point Mr N began making reduced 
payments on the account. It was clear that this was not going to change or that this was a 
temporary situation in relation to Mr Ns finances and it appears that later in the accounts 
term these repayments reduced further still. This means that Mr Ns account was effectively 
in arrears from the point he entered into the debt management plan in October 2018 and he 
was never going to be in a position whereby he would meet the terms of his agreement with 
Bamboo.
Bamboo has referred to the relevant rules and guidance when defending its position. And 
whilst I acknowledge these points, it is also aware of the guidance set out by Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). This talks about the same time frames that Bamboo has 
referred to, but also discusses the need to consider the time when the relationship between 
the two parties has broken down as a relevant factor in taking corrective action.
From reviewing the file Im satisfied this breakdown in relationship occurred in October 2018. 
This is the point that Mr N entered into the debt management plan and began making 
reduced repayments. As set out above, this was a month after the loan was taken out. 
Bamboo says that there was insufficient information to suggest the reduced repayments 
being offered were an ongoing status for Mr N. But I disagree with it on that point. Im 
satisfied that Mr N had entered into the debt management plan, and was already requesting 
reduced repayments on a loan which had in effect just begun, demonstrates the level of 
financial difficulties that he was in. And importantly that the relationship at this point had 
effectively broken down. 
So Im satisfied Bamboo shouldve acted sooner in taking corrective action then it eventually 
did in August 2019, and by not doing so, it acted unfairly.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint for Bamboo Limited to put things right by recording any 
appropriate negative information on Mr Ns credit file as if it had started the process of taking 
corrective action on the account from October 2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman