DRN-3713901
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) misled them with 
the wording of their Guaranteed Income Bond maturity letter.   
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P held a Guaranteed Income Bond (GIB) with NS&I which fell due for 
maturity on 19 December 2020. 
In November 2020, Mrs P and Mr P received a letter from NS&I reminding them that their 
GIB was about to mature. The letter explained the options available to them. Option one 
allowed them to rollover their maturing GIB into a new GIB for a term of three years. The 
letter said the new GIB would attract an interest rate of 0.36%. It also said that if the rate on 
offer fell, they would still receive this rate. If the rate increased before the maturity date, they 
would receive the higher rate.
The letter also explained changes to NS&Is GIBs meaning that Mrs P and Mr P wouldnt be 
able to cash any new bond in until its maturity. They were given the right to cancel any new 
bond within 30 days.
Mrs P and Mr P decided to accept option one in the letter and reinvest their maturing funds, 
in the new GIB offered. They said their decision was based upon NS&Is assurance that they 
may receive a higher rate.
During the early part of 2022, Mrs P and Mr P noticed that the rate on another of their 
deposits with NS&I had increased. But the interest rate on their new GIB remained 
unchanged. They didnt think this seemed right. So, they spoke with NS&I on 11 February 
2022. But they werent happy with how they were treated and spoken to and the explanation 
they were given. Mrs P and Mr P complained to NS&I in a letter highlighting their experience 
and asking when their GIB rate would be increased. 
NS&I replied to Mrs P and Mr P on 17 February 2022. They said their GIB is set at a fixed 
interest rate throughout the term. They apologised for their experience when they called 
NS&I and paid compensation of £25.
Mrs P and Mr P wrote back to NS&I on 25 February 2022. They didnt think NS&I had 
answered their question about when the interest rate would be increased on their GIB. They 
said that changes to NS&Is GIB meant they could no longer withdraw their investment early, 
even with a loss of 90 days interest. They said that removal of this option without provision 
for the rate to be increased through the term was an unfair contract.
NS&I responded to Mrs P and Mr P in a letter dated 4 March 2022. They said there were no 
plans to change the interest rate for GIBs. NS&I explained that reference in their maturity 
letter to the GIB rate increasing referred to any increase in the offered rate prior to their 
existing GIBs maturity. They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong.
Mrs P and Mr P were unhappy with NS&Is response to their complaint. So, they decided to 
refer matters to this service. Having considered all the information available, our investigator 
didnt think NS&I had done anything wrong. Our investigator acknowledged that Mrs P and 
Mr P had interpreted NS&Is maturity letter to mean the GIB rates would increase. But didnt 
agree that the wording was unclear or misleading, so didnt agree that NS&I should do 
anything more.
Mrs P and Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said theyd based their 
decision to reinvest in a new GIB entirely upon the description of option (1) in NS&Is 
maturity letter. They said their interpretation was that any change in the rate referred to the 
new bond rather than the existing maturing bond. They said the wording was misleading 
albeit unintentionally. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me 
to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Key to Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint is NS&Is GIB maturity letter dated 13 November 2020. In 
particular, the explanation of Option 1. The letter is headed Your Bond is about to mature. 
It goes on to provide full details of Mrs P and Mr Ps existing maturing bond showing a 
maturity date of 19 December 2020. The key details of the maturing bond are included in 
bold typeface.
Option 1 allows Mrs P and Mr P to renew for another 3-year term. It says:
On its maturity date your Guaranteed Income Bond will automatically start a new 3-year term 
at the new rate of 0.36% gross/0.36% AEREven if the rates on offer for Guaranteed 
Income Bonds fall between now and the maturity date, youll still earn the rate quoted above 
if you renew your investment for a further term of the same length. If the rates go up 
between now and the maturity date, you will receive the higher rate.
Having read this, I interpreted this as an assurance that if the offered rate for a new GIB 
changed before Mrs P and Mr Ps existing GIB matured, they would be assured of achieving 
at least 0.36% on their new bond, and potentially more if new rates were to increase in that 
period. Mrs P and Mr P interpreted the reference to the maturity date as relating to the new 
GIB. Unfortunately, that wasnt the case here. The paragraph starts by referencing the 
maturity date of your maturing GIB and what would happen to that bond. So, I believe any 
continued reference to maturity date in that paragraph also refers to the maturing bond, not 
any new bond.
A guaranteed income bond is generally defined as an investment or savings product that will 
pay a fixed amount each month or year for a particular period. In the case of NS&I, the entire 
capital amount deposited is also guaranteed by HM Treasury, part of the UK Government.
I understand NS&Is maturity letter is accompanied by a Key Features document specific to 
GIBs. On page two under What is NS&Is Guaranteed Income Bond, it states, Our GIB is 
an investment that pays interest monthly at a set rate over a fixed period of time. Page 
five has a heading No withdrawals until maturity. It says, A Guaranteed Income Bond is a 
fixed-term investment and has to be held for the full term. This means you wont be able to 
reinvest or withdraw your money until it matures. Page six has a heading, Interest under 
which it says Your Bond earns interest at the fixed rate every day. 
Mrs P and Mr P told our investigator, we understood if any other NS&I investment product 
interest rates overtook the GIB, then the GIB would also go up to match it. I accept this is 
what influenced Mrs P and Mr Ps decision to renew their GIB as they did. And I understand 
why they might choose to interpret the paragraph they refer to as they did. But equally, it 
appears both I and our investigator interpreted it differently. And where there is potential for 
misunderstanding, I dont think Mrs P and Mr P could safely rely upon the one sentence in 
that paragraph alone in reaching their decision.
The Key Features document Ive referred to above is, I believe, clear and easy to 
understand. And when considered together with NS&Is maturity letter, I think it was clear 
that the interest paid on a GIB was fixed for the agreed term. Where any doubt exists, I would expect that to be raised with NS&I before committing. Indeed, NS&I provide a 30-day 
cancellation period to accommodate such situations.
NS&I did apologise for the service Mr P received when he called them. They paid 
compensation of £25 to reflect this. NS&Is response here feels fair and appropriate in these 
circumstances. 
Mrs P and Mr P feel the changes made to NS&Is GIB product create an unfair contract. 
Product structure and pricing are business decisions for NS&I. And this service isnt able to 
influence or change those. So, Im unable to comment further on this point.
I want to acknowledged Mrs P and Mr Ps strength of feeling here. Theyve been very clear 
about how and why they interpreted NS&Is maturity options the way they did. For that 
reason, I want to reassure them that Ive carefully considered all their points and arguments 
thoroughly. I appreciate they will be disappointed; but I cant reasonably say that NS&I did 
anything wrong or treated Mrs P and Mr P unfairly or unreasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman