DRN-2785967
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about the decision of Ageas Insurance Limited to decline her claim 
made under her home insurance policy following a flood.
Mrs J is being represented by her grandson, Mr J.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In August 2020, the area where Mrs Js home is located experienced very heavy rain. The 
property sits at the confluence of two rivers. Mr J saw that the riverbank at the end of the 
garden was falling into the river, taking with it parts of the garden. A few days later, a 
drainage engineer from the county council visited and confirmed that the erosion was the 
result of a flooding event. The engineer recommended contacting Ageas as the home 
insurer.
Ageas initially considered the claim under the cover provided for landslip, and declined it on 
the basis that erosion of riverbanks was excluded under the policy. Mr J explained to Ageas 
that the damage was the result of flood, and that the claim was made on that basis. Mr J 
arranged for a structural engineer to visit, and his inspection also concluded that the damage 
was caused by flood.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. He agreed that the damage was 
caused by flood. However, he stated that land forming the riverbank and garden was not 
included within the policy definition of buildings, and also noted that there was a specific 
exclusion in the policy for garden items. As a result, Ageas maintained its decision to 
decline the claim.
Mr J sought further advice from another engineer, and an insurance risk manager. The risk 
manager commented that the engineers who had inspected the damage had found that the 
riverbank was not made of earth alone, but that there had been a dry stone wall on stone 
foundations. He suggested the claim should be covered under flood, on the basis that it had 
caused damage to a retaining wall.
On Mrs Js behalf, Mr J brought a complaint about Ageas decision to decline the claim to 
this service.
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint. Noting that the policy definition of buildings 
included garden walls, her view was that photos after the flood indicated there had been a 
structure built of stone within the riverbank before the floods caused damage to it. The 
investigator suggested that this structure was a garden wall.
Ageas disagreed with these findings. It stated that when the damage was first reported, it 
was told that the flood had not caused any damage to buildings, including walls. Ageas 
opinion was that the damage experienced had been to the riverbank and garden, and that 
these were not covered by the policy.
Our investigator reassessed the evidence and concluded that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Her revised view was that there was insufficient evidence to show that a wall, or any 
other structure covered by the insurance policy, had been damaged by the flood.
Mr J asked that this case be passed to an ombudsman for review. He has highlighted that 
Ageas initially treated the claim as one for landslip rather than flood. He has asked that 
Ageas confirm who made this initial decision, and what their qualifications were to do so. Mr 
J also says that Ageas did not immediately send out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. 
And he does not consider that the loss adjuster carried out a thorough investigation, stating 
that he did not enter the river to view the extent of the damage.
Mr J says that there was a wall on the riverbank prior to the flood, and that the wall and 
riverbank have been maintained in recent years by him and other family members. Mr J 
reports that much of the upper level of the wall was covered in vegetation, and the lower 
level and foundations werent visible.
In relation to the policy cover, Mr J has mentioned the Flood Re scheme that helps make 
premiums more affordable for policyholders in areas at greater risk of flooding. He says that 
he has recently found out that Ageas works with Flood Re, and he has questioned why 
Ageas has never explained this to Mrs J or offered to cover her property within the scheme 
due to her proximity to the river.
Mr J has suggested that if Ageas cannot deal with the entirety of the claim, it would be fair 
for it to at least pay for a part of it. He has provided further photos of the riverbank taken 
after the flood, and he says that these show evidence of a wall being in place.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I should comment on what Mr J has said about Ageas working within the Flood Re 
scheme. The complaint made by Mrs J to Ageas was about its decision to decline her claim 
for damage caused by the August 2020 flood. Ageas involvement with the Flood Re scheme 
did not form part of the complaint raised with Ageas, and consequently I will not be 
considering that matter in this decision. If Mrs J wishes to raise further concerns with Ageas 
that relate to the Flood Re scheme, in the first instance she will need to address this directly 
with Ageas.
Within this decision I have considered whether, taking into account the policy terms, Ageas 
acted fairly when declining this claim.
As Mr J has highlighted, when Ageas was first approached about the claim, it treated the 
insured event that had taken place as landslip. The expert evidence which was subsequently 
provided determined that the damage had in fact been caused by flood. Mr J is unhappy that 
Ageas initially considered the event as landslip, and he has pressed for Ageas to confirm 
who reached this conclusion and what qualifications they had to do so.
Although I understand Mr Js concerns in this regard, overall my view is that I do not need to 
determine this in order to reach an outcome on this complaint. Both Mr J and Ageas now 
agree that this claim should be considered as one for flood damage. The key issue for me to assess is whether Ageas acted reasonably when stating that the terms of the policy do not 
cover this damage.
The policy provides cover for flood damage to buildings. The word buildings is defined in 
the policy as (t)he home and fixtures and fittings, garden walls, gates, fences, paths, drives 
and patios, carports, permanent swimming poolsbut not garden items.
Garden items are defined as (f)lower beds, hedges, lawns, potted plants, shrubs or trees 
outside the buildings.
Ageas has declined the claim on the basis that the damage caused by the flood was 
restricted to the garden, rather than damaging anything that falls under the policy definition 
for buildings.
Mr J has said that there was a garden wall by the riverbank which was washed away by the 
flood. The building definition clearly includes garden walls, and so in my view damage to 
garden walls caused by a flood would be covered by the policy. But Ageas view is that there 
was not a garden wall at Mrs Js property that was damaged by the flood.
In order to assess this matter, I have weighed up the evidence that both parties have 
provided. Mr J has given this service a description of the structure which was in place by the 
riverbank prior to the flood:
 The wall was permanent and constructed of stone laid on bedrock (a few inches into the 
riverbed) which provided the foundations which was layered with stone and earth (to the 
garden level).
Mr J has also told us that much of the upper level of the wall was covered in vegetation, and 
the lower levels plus the foundations werent visible.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr J has questioned whether Ageas loss adjuster conducted a 
sufficiently detailed inspection of the flood damage, I consider it reasonable to take into 
account the content of his report. The loss adjuster does not mention a wall being in place by 
the riverbank. In addition, within the detailed description of events that Mr J provided in his 
initial submissions to this service, neither the council drainage engineer nor the structural 
engineer appointed by Mrs J mentioned a wall.
Mr J has forwarded the comments of the insurance risk manager. The risk manager refers to 
looking at documentation and photos, so its not clear to me that he actually visited Mrs Js 
property. He says that you have been able to ascertain the remains of a stone wall with 
large rocks as the foundations. To me, this wording indicates a degree of uncertainty about 
what exact structure was in place by the riverbank.
I have listened to a recording of the phone call that Mrs J made to Ageas when first reporting 
the claim. Mrs J makes several references to the riverbank collapsing as a result of the flood. 
However, she makes no mention of a wall being in place by the riverbank. Ageas internal 
records for the claim also include a summary of a conversation it had with Mrs Js daughter. 
The record says that Mrs Js daughter advised that there were gabions and boulders in place 
by the riverbank, but doesnt refer to there being a wall.
On my behalf, our investigator asked Mr J if he could provide any reports from individuals 
who inspected the damage in which they said that a garden wall had been in place. In 
response Mr J has forwarded the comments of the engineer who carried out the repair work.The engineer stated that in the course of the repairs the remains of an existing & damaged 
block stone foundation & stone wall which supported the main stone retaining wall were 
removed. Whilst I note these comments, I am mindful that the repairing engineer would 
have seen the damaged riverbank some time after the flood event, in my opinion making it 
more difficult to provide a detailed description of what structure had been in place prior to the 
flood.
As already explained, in providing cover for flood, the policy covers damage to items 
including garden walls. I have carefully considered the evidence provided, including the 
comments of the experts provided by both parties. Overall, my view is that whilst there may 
have been a structure or barrier of some sort in place by the riverbank before the flood, it 
has not been shown that this structure could reasonably be described as a garden wall. 
From Mr Js description, the structure at the riverbank was only partially visible before the 
flood, and its difficult to determine exactly what that structure was. On balance I do not 
consider that its been shown that buildings in the form of a garden wall suffered damage 
due to the flood.
I am sorry to learn about the damage that Mrs J experienced in her garden as a result of the 
flooding event that occurred, and I appreciate that my findings are likely to come as a 
disappointment to her. However, my current view is that Ageas acted fairly when it declined 
the claim made.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas did not provide any substantive response to my provisional decision.
Mr J explained that he was disappointed with the outcome reached. He has said that when 
they first reported the incident to Ageas, they were asked if the house itself had been 
damaged by the flood. They confirmed it had not been.
Mr J has highlighted that garden walls are covered by the policy under the buildings 
definition. He has said that a garden retaining wall was in place before the flood, and that the 
structural engineer who first visited the site had also stated this. Mr J has referred to the 
photographs he has provided following the flood, and has stated that these show a retaining 
wall of sort was in place before the flood. He has also referred to the statement previously 
provided by the contractors who have carried out repairs at the site. Mr J considers that 
Ageas has failed to provide evidence that a wall or structure was not present before the 
flood.
Mr J has said that Ageas is classing a retaining wall as a garden item. He has emphasised 
that he appreciates the policy does not provide cover for garden items, and no claim is being 
made for such items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr J has stated, it is the case that the policy provides cover for garden walls damaged by 
certain events, including flood. The issue I have to determine is whether Ageas acted fairly 
when declining the claim made on the basis that the flood had not damaged any element of 
the buildings, including any garden walls.
I appreciate that it is Mr Js firm contention that there was a garden wall by the riverbank that 
the flood washed away. But based on the evidence provided, my view remains that there is uncertainty about what exact structure was in place by the riverbank before the flood. In his 
response to my provisional decision, Mr J has described the structure as a retaining wall of 
sorts. Mr J has stated that Ageas has not provided evidence that a wall wasnt in place prior 
to the flood. But in my view, its for the policyholder to show on balance that something which 
is covered by the policy has been damaged by an insured event.
I dont consider that Ageas is classing a retaining wall as a garden item. Instead, it has 
stated that the flood did not damage any part of the buildings, including any garden walls. 
Based on the evidence provided, I consider that Ageas has acted fairly when reaching this 
conclusion, on the basis that it has not been shown that the flood damaged a structure that 
could reasonably be described as a garden wall. Consequently my view is that it should not 
be required to cover the damage sustained as a result of the flood.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman