DRN-2904178
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd wouldnt refund a payment he didnt make from his card 
account.
What happened
Mr Ds card account was in credit and a payment of £750 out was made to a bank account. 
Mr D said he didnt authorise this and that he had been the victim of fraud. He contacted our 
service when he didnt receive a refund.
NewDay decided to refund the credit to his account when it submitted its business file to this 
service. It said that this was because it had identified errors in the handling of its 
investigation and there were delays in reviewing the case properly. It said that this applied to 
a similar complaint Mr D had made with a differently branded card account. And that it would 
pay him total compensation of £150 to cover both of the issues.
Our investigator recommended that NewDay pay Mr D £150 in relation to this card account 
alone. He said that hed be considering the other card account in a separate complaint. And 
that a complaint Mr D had raised about other unauthorised payments that had come to light 
on this card account would also be one wed investigate separately.
The credit balance refund he was looking at here had been made on 18 February 2019.     
Mr D called NewDay on 20 February 2019 and was told that his account had been blocked 
due to fraud concerns. This had been because NewDay had concerns about someone trying 
to access his account on a number of occasions. A new card was ordered for him and this 
was unblocked on 28 February 2019. Mr D had asked for statements on the account and 
contacted NewDay about this again on 8 May 2019. He also then notified it that he didnt 
recognise the credit balance refund. On 26 May 2019 he contacted it again as he had still 
not received the statements and he raised a complaint. NewDay issued a final response on 
3 June 2019 but this only dealt with the issue with his statements and paid him 
compensation of £25 for poor service.
Mr D continued to contact NewDay about the payment. And there are multiple records of him 
calling but not making any progress. Although it had told him in October 2019 that it would 
be looking into things further it hadnt done so. And Mr D contacted this service in January 
2020. Our investigator thought that given NewDays earlier concerns about a third party 
trying to access Mr Ds account it should have come to the conclusion that thered been 
fraud earlier. So, he recommended compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. He noted that NewDay said it had applied a protective marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database to alert other businesses that Mr D had been the victim of fraud.
NewDay disagreed on the basis that it thought the compensation should still cover both 
complaints. Mr D didnt agree that the amount for this complaint was sufficient. He said that 
he was subject to the most harrowing or ordeals. It took over a year before he got his money 
back and this has a significant financial effect on him. He also described the emotional 
impact and how he never got an apology and he felt despair about things. He called multiple 
times and the compensation wasnt enough to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr D has been the victim of fraud. I dont doubt that this was very 
distressing for him and Ive listened to a call he had with our investigator in which he 
described in a very poignant way how NewDays actions have compounded those of the 
fraudster in the first place.
Im looking at this complaint and a separate one about his other account. And there were 
very similar issues and so I still need to think about what is fair overall. And my reasoning 
will also be similar even though the complaints are set up separately.
It isnt now in dispute that a refund should have been applied much earlier to Mr Ds account. 
And as far as this account is concerned NewDay never addressed the issue until this service 
had become involved. Mr D continued to persevere and make multiple calls and as he says 
at times felt like he was being treated as a fraudster and not taken seriously.
Putting things right
NewDay has refunded the money to him and recalculated interest on that payment on the 
basis that it would have reduced any debit balance. I noticed that it hadnt refunded the 
insurance element on the disputed balance charged at 1.5 per cent per month. It told me that 
this amounted to £138. It agreed to refund this amount and through our investigator I told it 
that this should include any interest on those payments and the account be reworked to 
adjust for this.
This is a further refund for Mr D but the issue I also need to decide on is the appropriate 
amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and the length of time 
Mr D was without this money. We dont make punitive awards and we think about the overall 
impact of what happened. There were clearly parallel issues in these complaints. Having 
taken into account our published guidance about trouble and upset and applied my own 
judgement I think that the additional amount recommended for this complaint  of £150  is 
reasonable. I know Mr D will be very disappointed by my conclusion about that. But I think 
that the overall amount across the two complaints fairly reflects what happened.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require NewDay Ltd to:
1) Pay Mr D a further £150.2) Rework his account to remove the insurance premiums on the disputed balance 
including interest to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman