DRN-3747177
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Granite Finance Ltd (Granite) handled the payments for his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F had a motor insurance policy arranged through an insurance broker. The premiums 
were paid through Granite which is a premium funding company. 
In February 2022 Mr F was trying to pay his monthly instalments and entered into an 
agreement with Granite to pay weekly. The weekly payments meant that he continued to pay 
his February payments into March. 
The March monthly payment wasnt collected by Granite. It should have sent a letter to him 
letting him know, but this wasnt sent due to a system error. 
Granite then didnt collect his April instalment, and Granite told Mr F his policy was no longer 
in force. 
Mr F had to take out a second policy at short notice because he needed to use his car to get 
to work.
Mr F wasnt happy about this, and he complained to Granite. He asked for a copy of the 
letter telling him his payment hadnt been taken. Granite then realised the system error and 
the payment hadnt been collected and reminder letter sent.
Granite paid Mr F £25 for his distress and inconvenience. It also said it arranged for his 
original policy to continue, and it arranged for the cancellation of his new one.
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into his complaint and upheld it. She said she thought Granite had caused Mr F distress by 
its errors, and inconvenience to sort out Granites mistakes. She said Granite should 
increase its compensation to £150.
Mr F agreed with the view, but Granite didnt respond. So Mr Fs complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and Ill explain why. 
Granite has failed to respond to this services approaches since the view was issued so Ive 
made my decision based on the information it sent this service in 2022 and further 
information from Mr F.
When Granite failed to collect the March direct debit, and then didnt send Mr F the letter 
telling him about this, it fell to him to ask Granite for a copy of the letter. 
Granite werent able to supply Mr F with a copy of it, which seems to be when it realised that 
it had made errors with Mr Fs account.
I can see from the file that Mr Fs payments had varied quite a lot during the period of time in 
question, but it seems to me that Granites systems should have been able to cope with what 
had happened because it is an insurance premium finance provider.
Mr F had said about how inconvenient hes found the whole process, with multiple calls and 
emails to try and resolve the problem. Hes had to arrange an alternative policy because he 
needed to get to work in his car. Its clear that its caused him a lot of worry and stress. I 
dont think Granites offer of £25 compensation is enough. Ive looked at what this service 
would recommend in similar circumstances, and I think £150 is a more appropriate level for 
his distress and inconvenience.
In later correspondence with this service, Mr F has said theres been a further problem with 
Granites system meaning it has again asked the broker to cancel his policy. Im not able to 
consider this further problem here because Mr F needs to make his complaint to Granite in 
the first instance. But if hes unhappy with its response, then he can make another approach 
to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Granite Finance Ltd to pay Mr F £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Granite Finance Ltd must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman