DRN-3673438
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) declined to refund £511 which he lost 
as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
of what happened here. But, in summary, Mr B came across a seller on a well-known online 
marketplace when looking for an item he wished to buy  a camera lens. He contacted the 
seller, by way of messages, and asked if the item was still available and if delivery was 
possible. At first the seller replied to confirm the item was available and delivery was 
possible locally. Mr B enquired if his location would be possible, but the seller came back to 
say it wasnt due to their location. He asked if the seller was willing to post the item and it 
was agreed that this was fine, and hed cover the postage costs. 
Mr B says he checked the sellers profile and that he could see they had friends on the 
account. Alongside this, hes said the account looked legitimate and that he checked the 
sellers location, which matched with where the item was being sent from. He commented 
that the market value, brand new, for the item he was looking to buy was in the range of 
£900. He was looking for a second-hand item and so he didnt think the price of £500 was 
too good to be true. 
Believing everything to be genuine, Mr B proceeded to make a faster payment of £511 on 
2 October 2021 to the bank details provided to him. 
Mr B says after making the payment, the seller stopped responding to his messages and on 
checking the online platform he could see the account had been deleted, along with the 
advert for the camera lens on the marketplace. He says it was at this point he realised he 
might have been the victim of a scam. Mr B says he later discovered that the seller had 
copied a genuine listing for the same item from another well-known online shopping website.   
On 3 October 2021, Mr B contacted Monzo to raise the matter. It has committed to follow the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM) Code (although it 
isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Monzo issued its final response to Mr B on 21 October 2021, not upholding his complaint. In 
summary, it said the decision-making process is an internal process that it cannot share with 
its customers and that it doesnt refer to specific terms and conditions when making these 
decisions. It considered Mr B didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying and 
what for and so, it wouldnt be changing its decision not to credit Mr B for the money he lost. 
But as a gesture of apology, for the longer delays Mr B experienced when waiting for a 
response, it credited his account with £20.  
Unhappy with its response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and she recommended that the complaint should be upheld, 
and that Monzo should refund the money Mr B had lost, along with interest and to pay an 
additional £80 for the trouble and upset caused. In summary, she thought Mr B did have a 
reasonable basis for believing the sale was genuine.
Monzo didnt agree with the Investigators opinion on Mr Bs complaint. In brief, it maintained 
that Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was for genuine goods, 
or that the person with whom he transacted with was legitimate. Therefore, it shouldnt be 
held liable for his loss under the provisions of the CRM Code. However, it did respond to say 
it agreed to pay an additional £80 compensation in recognition of service issues.  
As an agreement could not be reached, it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that: 
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Mr B the money he 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr B lost.
- The money was taken from Mr Bs business account. It is not clear how Mr B would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year, 
from the date Monzo decided not to refund Mr B under the CRM Code to the date of 
payment. 
- It should pay a further £80 (in addition to the £20 already credited to Mr Bs account), 
in recognition of the level of service received.  
Ive thought carefully about Monzos representations regarding whether Mr B had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine and whether he ignored an 
effective warning. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In reaching my 
conclusions, Ive thought about what it is realistic to have expected Mr B to do when he was 
making a payment of £511.
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
In particular I am not persuaded that Monzo has demonstrated that it can choose not to 
reimburse Mr B under the terms of the CRM Code because he lacked a reasonable basis for 
belief. Ill explain why;
- Mr B saw the item he was interested in on a well-known online marketplace. He 
engaged with the seller through messages. From reviewing these messages, whilst I 
accept there was not a lengthy dialogue, I dont consider the seller was applying any 
pressure (which can often be the indicator of a scam). In fact, in this case, the seller 
initially didnt agree to sell the item to Mr B due to the delivery location not being 
local. 
- Monzo in its initial response to the Investigators opinion commented that it hadnt 
denied reimbursement on the basis that the price was too good to be true. It said it 
accepts that the price may have been realistic for the item being advertised if it was a legitimate item. It later said the price of the item was too good to be true when 
looking at the price of a new camera lens of the same specification and the price for 
pre-owned ones. It added that itd found the price for a pre-owned lens ranged 
between £630 to £850, with most being sold around £700. So, it considers this 
should have been a cause for concern. Ive thought carefully about this point, but 
Monzo itself has said it found the camera lens of the same specification at £630. 
While I accept the price Mr B agreed was lower in amount to those found by Monzo, I 
dont consider the price to be so unrealistic in comparison to the lowest amount 
Monzo has stated that it ought to have been a red flag to Mr B  whereby he should 
reasonably have had doubts about the legitimacy of the item or the seller.
- Monzo commented that this was not a sophisticated scam  that an item was paid for 
without having seen it in person. That Mr B sent the money by an unsecure payment 
method that didnt offer any buyer protection to a person he didnt know and, who 
wasnt guaranteed to send the item. As Ive explained above, in carefully considering 
what has happened here, Ive kept in mind what it is realistic to have expected Mr B 
to do when he was making the payment. Due to the location of Mr B and the seller, I 
dont think it unreasonable that he hadnt seen the item in person. I also dont think it 
is so uncommon for people buying items across a marketplace such as this, to not 
always see an item in person before doing so. And I also dont think it follows that 
just because Mr B asked for the item to be posted, it makes him more liable for this 
loss. 
- Monzo didnt agree that there was a reasonable basis for belief, just on the basis the 
sellers profile looked legitimate. It added that genuine profiles can be set up quickly 
and does not indicate that a person or transaction is genuine. Further, it pointed out 
that a person wouldnt show signs on their profile that they were a scammer. While I 
accept the point Monzo is making here, I think its important to set out that this factor 
is not solely being relied upon. Mr B has told us that he looked at the sellers profile 
and that he could see this appeared to be established and that they had friends on 
the account. Whilst Ive not seen the sellers profile, I think it can be agreed that a 
profile/account in and of itself doesnt mean a person or transaction is genuine. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that shows there were any obvious red flags with the 
profile and overall, I dont think it unreasonable that a genuine looking profile would 
have been a factor in re-assuring Mr B about the seller and item.
- I also note Monzo in its appeal commented on the guidance of the marketplace that 
Mr B found the seller. In particular, it highlights the guidance on how to buy and sell 
safely  not to transfer money directly into a sellers bank account. This further links 
into Monzos view that Mr B made a payment by an unsecure payment method. Im 
afraid I dont agree with Monzos position on this point. This is because, the 
information about payment is contained amongst other information and required 
several clicks to see the section in question that Monzo refers to. In light of the 
specific circumstances of this case, I dont think its practical or proportionate to have 
expected Mr B to have read the help guide in its entirety before proceeding to make 
the payment.   
All things considered, I think it reasonable that a purchaser should take steps proportionate 
to the purchase being made. When thinking about the circumstances of the payment Mr B 
made here, Im satisfied in light of the above, that on balance he did enough. I dont think he 
missed any red flags that ought to have been readily apparent at the time he was making the 
payment that indicated there was a possibility he wouldnt get the item or that the seller was 
not genuine. For completeness, I also dont think the low friction warning Monzo presented Mr B with 
would be considered as effective under the CRM Code as it wasnt specific to the particular 
scam Mr B fell victim to. However having said that, considering the relatively low value of the 
payment Mr B was making (and therefore a lesser indication that Mr B may be a risk of 
fraud), I dont consider there was a requirement on Monzos part for an effective warning to 
be provided.
Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Mr B lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the payment, or that he ignored an effective warning. 
Monzo has replied to say it agrees to pay an additional £80 redress (in addition to the £20 
already credited) for the service issues Mr B experienced. I find this recommendation to be 
fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this case and so I make no further award 
in respect of this aspect.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. So, I think it is fair that Monzo 
should: 
- Refund the £511 lost as the result of the scam. 
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date 
Monzo Bank Ltd originally declined Mr Bs claim under the CRM Code until the date 
of settlement.
- Pay Mr B a further £80 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman