DRN-3031348
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mrs and Mr B say Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought NBSs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs and Mr B paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs and Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding            
Mrs and Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided NBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received  but that NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs and Mr B told us the PPI was included as part of the mortgage package, but I think 
NBS made it clear that Mrs and Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to 
take it out. 
I say this because of the information NBS has been able to give us from the time of the 
sale and which includes Mrs and Mr Bs mortgage application. This is a pre-printed 
document that I think most likely came about as a result of a conversation Mrs and Mr B 
had with a representative of NBS. It includes details about Mrs and Mr Bs circumstances 
at the time including their employment, salary the property being purchased etc. There is 
a section on the form entitled UNEMPLOYMENT, ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS 
PROTECTION and there is a tick in the box in response to the question 1. Do you want 
Mortgage Payment Cover? There was equally prominent box that could have been 
ticked if the PPI wasnt wanted. Mrs and Mr B then had to answer some questions about 
their eligibility for the policy. Mr and Mrs B have gone on to sign the document so I think 
if what it recorded wasnt a fair reflection of their discussion, I they would have 
questioned it at the time. 
And NBS has also given us a copy of a letter Mrs and Mr B sent to NBS around a month 
after the application which said I am interested in the Mortgage Payment Cover Policy 
So, I think Mrs and Mr B were aware they had a choice about taking the PPI and decided 
to protect their mortgage upon application.
NBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr B  so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mrs and Mr B enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mrs and Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs and Mr B  for example 
they werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt 
too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information 
they were given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or 
back problems. Mrs and Mr B say they were financially stretched at the time, but I 
havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for them  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think         
Mrs and Mr B would have declined the cover had NBS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs and Mr B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting, and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs and Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means NBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
NBS didnt tell Mrs and Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
NBS and Mrs and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because NBS didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case.
I dont think NBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs and Mr B because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs and Mr Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs and Mr B should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: NBS failed to tell Mrs and Mr B about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs and Mr B wouldnt have 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshiptaken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for   
Mrs and Mr B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by NBS not disclosing the high level 
of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs and Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for NBSs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for NBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs and Mr B paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves          
Mrs and Mr B with the policy which Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if 
NBS had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share 
levels.
So, I consider that NBSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs and Mr Bs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs and Mr B an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman