DRN-1583983
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
engineers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions.
For many years Mr P had a British Gas policy that included an annual service visit (ASV) 
and certain repairs.
British Gas did an ASV in March 2018. In January 2019, Mr P cancelled his policy. On 1 
April 2019 he got an independent gas engineer to do a service. He reported corrosion to the 
boiler casing and damage to the burner gasket.
Mr P complained that British Gas hadnt serviced the boiler correctly in particular when it did 
the 2018 ASV. He had to pay £2,325.60 for a new boiler. He says British Gas should 
reimburse him.
By a final response dated 5 June 2019 British Gas did not uphold that complaint. So Mr P 
brought his complaint to us later in 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
corrosion had been present during any of the British Gas ASVs. So he thought that it would 
be unfair to ask British Gas to pay for the cost of Mr Ps new boiler. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The March 2018 ASV was not carried out thoroughly. It did not include a CO2 
(carbon dioxide) test.
Two independent, qualified gas engineers, from different companies, verbally told 
him that the severe corrosion damage would never have happened over just one 
year. 
This was put in writing by the engineer who replaced the boiler.
British Gas refused to answer any of his questions. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The British Gas records from January and February 2016 show replacement of a leaking 
auto air vent. I havent seen any evidence that this would cause corrosion.
The British Gas records for the ASV in January 2017 show replacement of a burner seal.
When Mr Ps policy renewed in January 2018, the British Gas policy terms included the 
following:
            Annual service
One of our engineers will visit your home once a year to check that your appliance, boiler or 
central heating and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant laws and 
regulations. Well also test the gases your appliance or boiler produces.
If these tests show that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean 
it, well do so.
The British Gas records show that it did the last ASV on 19 March 2018. Mr P has shown us 
the customer checklist. I see that it includes some notes which I find are the results of tests 
of the gases the boiler was producing. 
Unlike previous checklists, the one in March 2018 says that British Gas did not manually 
operate a carbon monoxide (CO) alarm. I dont think such an alarm is part of the boiler. 
There may be a number of reasons why British Gas did not find or operate such an alarm. I 
dont share Mr Ps view that this is indicative of corner-cutting in servicing the boiler. 
In April 2019 Mr Ps independent engineer said a faulty burner gasket had caused 
condensate water to leak causing severe corrosion damage to the main boiler chassis. That 
is supported by photographic evidence.
Mr P says his independent engineer told him that British Gas shouldve found and repaired a 
fault with a gasket in March 2018. And Mr P has shown us an email dated 11 December 
2019 as follows:
I feel that the level of corrosion in the boiler is more than I would expect to see in twelve 
months even allowing for the corrosive nature of the acidic condense water.
But I havent seen enough evidence that there was already a leak when British Gas did the 
ASV in March 2018. So Im not persuaded that the British Gas ASVs fell below the required 
standard or caused damage.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay for Mr Ps new boiler 
or to do anything more in response to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman