DRN-1212612
The complaint
Mr C, on behalf fo E, a limited company, complains that when a payment was made to 
WorldPay (UK) Limited the description of the transaction on the credit card statement was 
inaccurate and inappropriate.
What happened
On 17 May 2019, Mr C made a payment using E's credit card to WorldPay in respect of a 
merchant card acquiring agreement. But when the payment appeared on the credit card 
statement it said "COUNSELING (sic) SERVICE - DEBT, MARRIAGE, PERSONAL".
Mr C says this has caused a great deal of upset and embarrassment to staff at E and his 
family. 
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the evidence he 
had didn't support that WorldPay was responsible for the information on the statement. 
While the wording isn't clear, it sets out three groups and E's payment did fall into one 
category - debt.  In any case the complainant in this case was E - not Mr C or his family. 
So we can't award compensation for the impact on them.
Mr C, on behalf of E, didn't accept what the investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how the description of the payment could be interpreted in the way that Mr 
C claims it was. And I don't doubt what Mr C has told us about how it affected him, his staff 
and his family. But after looking at what happened, I'm not going to uphold this complaint.
The evidence we have doesn't support that WorldPay was responsible for the exact wording 
that appeared on the statement. And although I can see how the wording could be 
interpreted in the way it was, it can also be read in a different way - it wouldn't necessarily be 
for marriage counselling.
The eligible complainant here is E. While Mr C, his family and his staff might have been 
stressed, embarrassed and upset by what happened, I don't have the power to make any 
award for any of those things. I can only look on the impact on E as a limited company. And 
nothing Mr C has told us suggests that it suffered any financial loss or inconvenience. So 
even if I were to uphold this complaint - I wouldn't make any award.  Again, that is not to 
lessen the very real upset caused to Mr C and others - but merely to explain that under our 
rules I don't have the power to make any award for that.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Ken Rose
Ombudsman