DRN-3994495
The complaint
Miss M complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd trading as Lantern are incorrectly 
reporting the date her loan defaulted.
What happened
In April 2017 Miss M took out a loan with a company Ill refer to as Q. Shes said she made 
two payments and then from June 2017 missed payments for two years. After Lantern took 
over the debt, which I understand was July 2021, she began paying £10 a month towards it. 
On checking her credit file, Miss M found a default was applied in September 2019 but 
understood defaults should be applied no later than six months after the first missed 
payment. Miss M wants the date of the default for the loan to be changed to December 2017 
 due to not making payments from June 2017.
Lantern said the information they got when buying the loan from Q was that she started it in 
April 2017, extended it four times, with the final extension being June 2017. They said the 
next action shown is November 2018 when she began making payments of £50.43 which 
continued until July 2019. The account then defaulted on 1 September 2019 once payment 
had been missed. Lantern said theyd usually expect a default to be applied within three to 
six months of a missed payment as Miss M had said  but there can be reasons why that 
doesnt happen. Lantern added as Q are no longer trading, they cant check why. They said 
theyre sorry shes unhappy, but they cant amend the default date without something to 
suggest the default has been recorded incorrectly  and theyve got nothing to suggest that.
Unhappy with this, Miss M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
found Lantern were acting fairly, as there was nothing to suggest Q had incorrectly recorded 
the default date.
Miss M didnt agree with this. She felt there was clear evidence to show the default had been 
recorded incorrect. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is solely about Lanterns actions. But, as Q were the party responsible for 
defaulting Miss Ms account, I do need to look at how the default was applied.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) suggests lenders should default an account no 
earlier than three months after the customer first started missing payments, and no later than 
six months after the first missed payment. A lender has to tell their customer theyre 
intending to default them  to give their customer a chance to bring the account up to date, 
or to make an arrangement to pay. If an arrangement to pay is agreed between the lender 
and their customer, but the customer misses a payment, the lender can default the account 
immediately. Once the account is defaulted, that marker will remain on the customers credit 
file for six years.
This is relevant in Miss Ms case due to the payment history. Her statements show her last 
payment was 31 May 2017, before payments started up again in November 2018. Given the 
significant timeframe between the last payment, and the next, it suggests something was 
agreed by Q for Miss M to not have to make payments. Otherwise, it seems likely theyd 
have defaulted her account as she thinks they should have. I think this is further supported 
by Miss M making payments of £50.43 from November 2018 until July 2019  but no 
payment in August 2019. Each payment made during this time was made at the end of the 
month. So, the August payment was expected by 31 August 2019. There is no evidence it 
was paid, but there is evidence the account was then defaulted 1 September 2019. 
As Ive outlined above, if someone is in an arrangement to pay, and then that arrangement 
isnt kept to, a lender can default an account immediately. The pattern of Miss Ms account 
suggests thats what happened. And, as Q did seemingly default Miss Ms account 
immediately after a missed payment in August 2019, that makes me think theyd have done 
so earlier if there wasnt an arrangement to pay in place.
Ive noted Miss M asked if her credit file would show in an arrangement to pay during the 
period of May 2017  November 2018 when no payments were made. The ICO says the 
length of time an arrangement to pay shows on someones credit file would depend on the 
terms of the arrangement with the lender. Because of that, even if her credit file didnt show 
any arrangement to pay, I wouldnt be able to rely on this given the time passed and that the 
way this information is displayed can vary.
Finally, the information Lantern were given at the time of taking over Miss Ms account was 
that the default was applied on 1 September 2019. If there was clear evidence that this 
default hadnt been applied correctly, then I could fairly require Lantern to update it. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I cant see that Lantern are reporting the default 
incorrectly. Because of that, I wont be asking them to backdate the default as Miss M has 
asked.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman