DRN-4311909
The complaint
Mr K complains about delays by Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) in 
dealing with his claim on his car insurance policy.
Advantage is the underwriter of Mr Ks policy; that is, it is his insurer. Part of this
complaint concerns the actions of Advantages agents. As Advantage has accepted its
accountable for the actions of its agents, any reference in my decision to Advantage
includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr K was involved in a car accident and notified Advantage of his claim the day afterwards.
Mr K first complained to Advantage about its delays in dealing with his claim around six
weeks after the accident. Advantage upheld Mr Ks complaint. It said its case handler hadnt
been chasing the release and collection of his car. Advantage apologised to Mr K and paid
him £195 for the inconvenience it had caused him.
Mr K continued to experience delays, so he made another complaint. Advantage again
upheld Mr Ks complaint. It apologised for the continuing delays and paid Mr K £120 in
compensation for the inconvenience and distress it had caused him.
Advantage then told Mr K his car was a total loss. And for around a month after this, 
Advantage gave Mr K the use of a hire car.
Unhappy with his claims experience, Mr K brought his complaint to us. The investigator who
looked at Mr Ks complaint didnt uphold it. She said there were avoidable delays by
Advantage in dealing with Mr Ks claim. And she noted Mr K had given us receipts showing
hed paid travel costs of just under £190 for the time when he didnt have the use of his car.
But she said the payment of £315 Advantage had made to Mr K, along with the use of the
hire car it gave him, compensated him for these delays.
Mr K disagreed and so his complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional decision of 19 
July 2023, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K has accepted my 
provisional decision. Advantage hasnt commented on it. So Mr Ks complaint has now come 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. In my provisional decision, I 
explained my reasons as follows:
When a policyholder makes a claim on a car insurance policy, we expect the insurer to deal
with it within a reasonable time. And when an insurer fails to do this, we look at whether this
has caused the policyholder distress and inconvenience, including whether the loss of use of
the car has added to any inconvenience.
In Mr Ks case, Advantage accepts there was a two-month delay in dealing with Mr Ks
claim. I agree Advantage hasnt dealt with the claim within a reasonable time.
Ive looked at the impact this has had on Mr K. He didnt have the use of his car for more
than two months. Mr K says his usual routine was to drive to his gym most nights as an
outlet for his mental health. He says not being able to do this for many weeks made him feel
very down, depressed and stressed. He says on occasion hes had to travel by train, which
has been made more difficult and stressful by strike action on the trains. As Ive mentioned,
Mr K has given us receipts for travel costs of just under £190 for the time when he didnt
have the use of his car. Mr K also says he spent more than eight hours on the phone
chasing Advantage and its agents for updates  and hes sent us screenshots from his
phone showing the length of some of these calls.
Advantage has paid Mr K £315 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its
caused him. And it also gave him the use of a hire car after it said his car was a total loss 
something it wasnt required to do under the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy.
Im in no doubt from what Mr K says that Advantages failings have significantly
inconvenienced and disrupted his life and caused him considerable distress, upset and
worry over a number of weeks. For this, I think the compensation Advantage has paid Mr K
of £315 is fair and reasonable.
But I also need to look at whether Advantage should compensate Mr K for the loss of use of
his car. Based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied Mr K was unable to use his car because
of Advantages delays. So I think its fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to make a
compensation payment for loss of use. Until the car was written off, which wasnt until
around nine weeks after the accident, Mr K wasnt sure how Advantage would settle his
claim. So, (as Ive already mentioned) Mr K had to make alternative arrangements when he
wanted to travel  and had to miss out on some of his normal routine activities. Mr Ks policy
allowed him the use of a courtesy car once his car was at Advantages nominated repairer.
But because of the time it took for Advantage to get the car to the repairer (where it was then
written off), Advantage didnt give Mr K a courtesy car.
In these circumstances, I intend to award Mr K £10 a day for the loss of use of his car from
10 November 2022 (the day after the accident) until 19 January 2023 (the day when I
believe the car was written off). But Im also conscious that, from 3 February 2023, 
Advantage arranged for Mr K to have the use of a hire car, something his policy didnt entitle 
him to because his car had been written off. I dont know for how long Mr K had the use of 
the hire car and Id be grateful if he or Advantage could let me know. But I think its fair and 
reasonable for Advantage to deduct £10 for each day Mr K had the use of the hire car from 
the loss of use compensation payment Ive said I intend to award Mr K.
As Ive mentioned, Mr K has accepted my provisional decision. Advantage hasnt 
commented on it (but it has told us Mr Ks hire car agreement ended on 3 March 2023  
which is the date Mr K also gave us). And Ive seen nothing to make me think I should alter 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, which now form part of this final 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay him £10 a day for the loss of use of his car 
from 10 November 2022 until 19 January 2023. Advantage Insurance Company Limited can deduct from this compensation payment £10 for each day after 3 February 2023 that Mr K 
had the use of a hire car (which Advantage and Mr K says was until 3 March 2023).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman