DRN-2875751
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy how TSB Bank Plc dealt with a transfer from his account.
What happened
Mr A logged into his internet banking with TSB on 18 March 2021, to make a transfer of 
£2,000 from his account, to a third-party bank account. But the internet banking platform 
wasnt working correctly, and Mr A couldnt complete the transfer.
Mr A contacted TSB about this. And they advised him to download their mobile app, so hed 
be able to complete the transfer that way. Mr A did this, but the transaction was flagged by 
TSBs systems and it needed to be verified. The verification took place and the transfer was 
completed the same day. But it took longer than Mr A had expected. 
Mr A complained to TSB and they offered him £75 compensation for the inconvenience hed 
been put to. Mr A was unhappy with TSBs offer, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said TSB knew that an error with their internet banking platform was 
affecting some customers. And he said that TSB had acted reasonably by giving Mr A an 
alternative option  the mobile banking app  so he could complete the transfer.
The investigator said the terms of Mr As account with TSB allowed them to check a 
transaction was genuine if they had concerns, so he didnt think theyd done anything wrong 
by doing so. The terms also said that transfers were normally done within two hours but may 
not be complete until the end of the next day. And, because Mr As transaction had been 
completed the same day, the investigator didnt think that TSB had acted outside their terms.
But the investigator recognised that Mr A had been frustrated and inconvenienced by whatd 
happened. And he thought TSB should compensate him for this. But he also thought the £75 
already offered was a fair reflection on the impact on Mr A. So he didnt think TSB needed to 
increase this offer.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator and he thinks the compensation offer should be 
increased. Because Mr A didnt agree, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
The basic facts of this case arent disputed, so I wont repeat them here. And Mr A is 
unhappy with the offer of compensation from TSB.
Ive seen the terms of Mr As account and, in Section 3  Taking money out of your 
account, under the heading When might we refuse to make a payment, TSB say we may 
refuse to make a payment from your account if  we believe  someone else has used 
your account. So, Im satisfied these terms imply that if TSB suspect this may be the case, 
theyre able to attempt to verify a transaction before processing it.
While I accept this was on the advice of TSB, because of the issue with their online banking 
portal, Mr A had just downloaded the mobile banking app. And he was making an immediate 
request to transfer a large amount of money to an account with a third-party bank. A series 
of events like this could be an indication that someone else had managed to obtain Mr As 
account details. So I think TSB acted reasonably, and were looking to protect Mr As money 
from a potentially fraudulent withdrawal, by verifying the transfer before releasing the funds.
The terms of Mr As account, under Section 4  Making a payment to a UK account in 
pounds, under the heading When will it reach the bank of the person youve sent it to after 
weve received it?, say at the latest, by the end of the next day. But normally within two 
hours. And the money was received by the receiving bank on the same day Mr A asked for 
the transfer. So Im satisfied that the transfer didnt take longer than TSB said it could.
I appreciate Mr A had an expectation the transfer would take no longer than two hours  the 
normal timescale for such a transaction, and he was frustrated it took longer. I appreciate 
he was also inconvenienced by not being able to complete the transfer on TSBs online 
banking portal; having to phone TSB; having to use the mobile banking app to request the 
transfer; and having to verify the transaction before the money was released. 
But, because TSB acted within their terms, and the transfer was completed well within the 
timescale given, Im satisfied the impact on Mr A was both short and limited. For this reason, 
Im satisfied the £75 TSB have offered was reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be 
asking them to pay anything more. Its now for Mr A to decide whether to accept this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint about TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman