DRN-1224539
 
The complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card in a branch of Halifax in 2004. The PPI was added to his credit 
card at the same time and it was designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt work 
due to disability or unemployment. It also included ancillary life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant be sure, after all this time, what was said during the sale. But Ive looked at the credit 
card application form Mr R signed at the time. The form included a box to be filled in if Mr R 
wanted PPI. The box was filled in with a printed X. 
From experience of how Halifax sold PPI, I think its likely that happened following 
discussions between the adviser and Mr R about the cover. 
So, I think Halifax probably made it clear to Mr R that the PPI was optional and that he 
actively chose to go ahead with it knowing he didnt have to. I can understand if he doesnt 
remember that now, so many years later.
I think Halifax recommended the policy to Mr R. That meant it had to look into whether the 
PPI was right for Mr R in his circumstances. From what Halifax and Mr R have said, I think 
the policy was right for him because:
Mr R was eligible for the cover. And I dont think he was affected by the policys main 
restrictions or exclusions. 
Mr R says he was entitled to generous sick pay from his employer. But he didnt have 
any savings or other insurance to help him make his repayments if he wasnt 
working. Hes mentioned he had life cover and private medical insurance but they 
covered different things to the core elements of the PPI. The PPI benefits would have 
paid out on top of his employers pay and for up to 12 months per claim. It covered him for unemployment too. So, overall, I think the PPI provided him with useful extra 
security.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr R couldnt afford the PPI. And, as the PPI was paid for 
with a monthly premium, if he no longer wanted it he could have cancelled it at any 
time at no extra cost.
 
Halifax also had to make sure it told Mr R enough about the PPI so he could decide for 
himself if it was right for him. And it had to do this in a clear, fair and not misleading way. I 
dont know for sure how much information Halifax gave Mr R or how well it was explained. 
But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for him, I dont think better information 
would have made a difference to his decision to take it out.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr R back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mr R now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman