DRN-2258511
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled him into investing money that he didnt 
have. He wants HSBC to refund what hes spent, reimburse him for overdraft charges, and 
compensate him for the mis-information.
What happened
Mr W opened an InvestDirect account in 2012. In March 2020 he checked his account and 
understood he had £10,200 available to invest. He purchased shares on 10 March and 12 
March which cost £5,772.22 in total. A few days later, he logged into online banking and saw 
that the cost of the shares had been debited from his bank account. This resulted in an 
overdraft on his account.
HSBC said no cash is held in the InvestDirect account. The £10,200 figure refers to Mr Ws 
trading limit  all purchases yet to settle cant exceed the trading limit. As a gesture of 
goodwill, HSBC credited Mr Ws account with £21 to cover his trading costs if he decided he 
wanted to sell the shares hed bought.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree. He set out again what had happened and why he thought the wording 
was misleading. He said nowhere does it say the money is a credit  if that had been made 
clear, he wouldnt have purchased the shares. He also said, in summary, that:
It wasnt fair to clarify the trading limit in the terms and conditions and key features, 
rather than making it clear on the website.
His account is now showing a trading limit of £20,000, so the terms and conditions which 
refer to £10,200 must be void.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W did not hold cash in his InvestDirect account.
The InvestDirect account is linked to Mr Ws nominated bank account. Any share 
purchases in the InvestDirect account are debited from Mr Ws nominated bank account. 
This is set out in the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr W had used the account before, albeit with help from his father. Although he hadnt 
used it recently, I think he should reasonably have understood that any purchases 
needed to be funded from his bank account.
Ive considered carefully the My Portfolio page of Mr Ws InvestDirect account. Mr W 
has highlighted that the wording says:
This summary is a snapshot of all of the cash and investments you hold in your HSBC 
InvestDirect Portfolio. It includes executed trades and cash account balances.
But it goes onto say that:
The available to invest column displays your dealing limit plus or minus any trades or 
corporate actions.
I think this makes it reasonably clear that the £10,200 is a dealing limit, rather than cash 
held in the InvestDirect account. This is further clarified underneath the totals where it 
gives a figure for: Your Total Wealth held within HSBC InvestDirect  which does not 
include the £10,200.
Im sorry to hear that Mr W is in financial difficulties as a result of the purchases he 
made. But HSBC told us that, after hed purchased them, the price of the shares Mr W 
had bought increased. So he could have chosen to sell them. HSBC credited Mr Ws 
account with £21 to cover the cost of selling the shares, if hed chosen to do this. I can 
also see that HSBC referred Mr W to its Financial Guidance Team if he needed some 
help. So, overall I think it acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr W has provided us with a recent copy of his My Portfolio page which shows he has 
a dealing limit of £20,000, rather than the £10,200 referred to in the terms and 
conditions. HSBC has explained that its dealing limit for all customers increased earlier 
this year to £20,000 to reflect the increased annual ISA allowance. I dont find this 
increase makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman