DRN-4110824
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited in relation 
to a claim he made when his car was damaged in an accident.
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. During the claim Mr S was also 
dealing with other companies who act as Admirals agents. Admiral is responsible for the 
actions of its agents. 
What happened
Mr S had an accident in April 2022 and made a claim. Admiral took the car to one of its 
approved garages for repair. Mr S had a courtesy car to use whilst his was being repaired. In 
June Mr Ss car still hadnt been returned to him and he began feeling frustrated. He wasnt 
happy with conflicting information the garage gave him or with how it handled his car. 
Around 20 June 2022 Mr Ss car was returned to him  he didnt think it had been properly 
repaired and that further damage had likely been done. Admiral agreed to have the car 
inspected  Mr S wasnt then happy with the outcome of the inspection and he believed the 
engineer wasnt independent. He accused Admiral, its garage and/or the engineer of acting 
fraudulently.
Between 25 August 2022 and 15 December 2022, Admiral issued several final response 
letters to Mr S. Admiral accepted it had caused some delays and provided some poor 
service. Overall it paid Mr S £350 compensation for trouble and upset. It agreed to consider 
Mr Ss estimates for repair of the car. When asked by Mr S about the cost of obtaining an 
estimate, Admiral said it would consider reimbursing him. But it said it couldnt progress this 
aspect until it had received estimates from him. It added that there had been no attempt to 
defraud Mr S. Further, in a letter dated 2 December 2022, Admiral confirmed it hadnt, at that 
point, paid for claim repairs to Mr Ss car.
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he wanted an apology and 
financial redress as he didnt want Admiral to repair his car again. He said Admiral had 
incurred no cost for this claim so it should remove it from his record. Mr S later, in 
March 2023, explained that the car was on a lease due to end in June 2023 and rather than 
going to the trouble of obtaining repair estimates, hed like to let the lease company set the 
cost for rectification. He also said hed lost £200 when he couldnt fit equipment into the 
courtesy car Admiral had provided, which would have fitted in his normal car used for 
business purposes (being repaired by Admirals garage at that time), and had to send an 
employee to do a job on his behalf instead. 
Our Investigator noted Admiral had agreed to consider estimates for repair of the car and 
that it had offered £350 for trouble and upset caused. She felt that was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. She explained that were an informal service, that its not our role to 
get involved with how an insurer generally conducts its business, or to punish it. Rather wed 
look at whether Admiral had treated Mr S fairly and reasonably, and if it hadnt what was 
required to put things right.
Mr S wasnt happy with our Investigators findings. He said Admiral hadnt tried to put things 
right  it had acted criminally to defraud him of thousands of pounds. He said it hadnt 
apologised and he felt the most basic of the Financial Ombudsman Services responsibilities 
was to make it act professionally; requiring a wholehearted apology be made and revocation 
of its allegation that he had damaged the car (after the garage returned it). And we should 
make sure Admiral follows regulations  which it hadnt here. Mr S said he felt hed have little 
choice but to pursue this legally  but hed still like an Ombudsmans review. His complaint 
was passed to be considered by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S is upset with and frustrated by Admiral. I can see that his car was not 
repaired as hed have expected. Either in terms of timeliness or quality of repair. But Ive 
seen nothing to make me think that was down to any ill intent by Admiral or those it 
instructed. Unfortunately repairs sometimes do not go to plan, they might be delayed or not 
completed to a satisfactory standard. Sometimes communication is poor. I can see that Mr S 
experienced all three of those things here. I accept that caused him distress and 
inconvenience (sometimes referred to as trouble and upset). And that completing the 
rectification work on the car would come at a cost too. 
In terms of trouble and upset  Admiral has offered £350 compensation. I note Mr S was 
without his car for longer than he should have been  but he was only without it for a total of 
about two months. Also, the poor communication about the progress of the repairs and when 
the car would be returned to him would have added to his frustration. Further, seeing his car, 
when he did get it back, in a less than satisfactory condition was upsetting and a cause for 
worry for Mr S. Im satisfied that £350 compensation is fair and reasonable in this respect.
Admiral isnt liable for expenses incurred during the reasonable period of repair but it might 
be for any losses that flowed directly from any avoidable delay it may have caused. I havent 
seen that Mr S told Admiral that he had suffered a financial loss due to the return of his car 
being delayed. Admiral might reasonably need to look at compensating for that financial 
loss. It needs a chance to consider this first though. If Mr S wants to pursue this, he should 
send it evidence of this loss, including when it occurred.
In respect of the repairs Admiral did agree to consider an estimate from Mr S for resolving 
the outstanding issues. It had noted and accepted he wasnt prepared to return the car to its 
garage. It did tell him the engineer had felt there was evidence to show Mr S had damaged 
the car. The engineer is suitably independent and experienced  Admiral, in my view, was 
reasonably entitled to take note of his findings. But Admiral was also clearly prepared to 
consider an estimate for rectification work from Mr S anyway. I think that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and I wouldnt be minded to make it do anything more  
such as remove the findings and apologise for the suggestion. 
Im aware that Mr S may now have returned the car to the lease company without having 
gained a garages estimate for repair. I can only take into account what happened and what 
the situation was up until the final responses issued by Admiral. As of December 2022, 
Admiral was offering to consider estimates from Mr S for repair  I think that was fair and 
reasonable. If Mr S would now like Admiral to cover any costs set out by the lease company, 
he should provide any evidence in this respect to it for consideration. 
This claim will show on Mr Ss record; both with Admiral and on the industry database. As at 
December 2022 Admiral hadnt then added any costs for repairing Mr Ss car to the claim record  but it explained there was a cost to it for the damage. Its not unreasonable for 
Admiral to record that. Its not something I could reasonably make it remove. 
I note that Mr S feels very strongly that criminal activity has occurred here. But it is not this 
services role to consider criminal allegations. Nor do we act as the regulator  that is the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  to punish businesses or make them generally change 
the way they practice. Rather the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute 
resolution service. It is our role to informally consider complaints about financial businesses 
and decide whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of each 
complaint. And if we feel they have not, to set out what is fairly and reasonably required to 
put things right. Im satisfied that here, Admiral did fail Mr S at times during his claim. But Im 
also satisfied that its proposed redress, including a total payment of £350 compensation for 
upset, by cheque, was fair and reasonable. Im not going to require it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman