The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) didn't notify him when he was 
about to be charged interest on his credit card.
What happened
In 2016 Mr S arranged for a balance transfer to the existing credit card he held through 
BOI. The card offered a promotional rate of 0% interest on balance transfers for 22 months.
In 2018 Mr S realised that the interest rate on the card had increased when he received a 
letter from BOI warning him that his current payments weren't enough. Mr S complained to 
BOI who didn't uphold his complaint. They said they notified Mr S in his June 2018 
statement that the promotional rate of interest was due to expire in August 2018. 
Mr S didn't accept their response. He thought BOI should have sent him a specific letter 
highlighting the change as his other credit card provider had. He brought his complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He thought BOI had done enough to let Mr S 
know the promotional rate of interest was coming to an end. He said, in summary:
The credit card agreement confirmed the introductory rate of interest and how long it
would last. As it lasted for around two years, it would be reasonable for BOI to give
Mr S notice towards the end. This would make sure Mr S knew the rate was about to
change, and could take steps to avoid paying the higher rate.
The statement dated 9 June 2018, advised the promotional rate would expire on 9
August 2018. The statement was correctly addressed, so he was satisfied BOI sent
this out correctly.
BOI also said they emailed Mr S advising the promotional offer would end soon. They
provided system records that showed this was sent, and confirmed they had the
correct email address for Mr S.
Mr S didn't agree with the investigator. In summary, he said he didn't have the June 2018 
statement. And he didn't receive the other email in June 2018. He was also unhappy with 
our investigator and felt there was more emphasis on BOI's position than his.
As there's been no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to uphold the complaint. I will now explain why.
DRN-1133900First of all, I think its important to be clear that our service is impartial. A decision not to 
uphold a complaint doesn't mean that we are biased. I can assure Mr S that I have 
considered his complaint impartially, independently and taken into account his comments 
and submissions.
I've considered what Mr S has said about how he should have been told that the interest rate 
was changing. And why it shouldn't be sent in the format of a regular monthly statement. I 
appreciate the point he's making, but for me conclude BOI have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, Id need to be satisfied they didn't meet their obligations under the terms and 
conditions of the account.
I've reviewed the terms and conditions of the account and the credit agreement Mr S signed. 
They say:
"We will tell you about any changes (including any changes in interest rates and/or your 
Credit Limit) by:
 advising you in your monthly statements; or
 sending you a separate written notice by post or electronically (including by e-mail, online
servicing, SMS messages, or similar)."
So I can't see that there is any requirement for BOI to send a separate letter to Mr S advising 
of the change to his interest rate. The credit agreement said the promotional rate would only 
apply for 22 months. The statement Mr S was sent in June 2018 set out the expiry dates of 
the promotional rates. So I'm satisfied BOI notified Mr S of the relevant expiry date as they 
should have done under the terms and conditions of the account.
The question for me then to consider is if BOI correctly sent the statement to Mr S. The copy 
statement I've seen has been correctly addressed to Mr S, so I'm satisfied it was correctly 
sent.
Mr S has said that he doesn't have the statement in his records. I don't disbelieve Mr S, but 
because the statement was correctly addressed to him, I cant fairly hold BOI at fault for him 
not receiving it or any issues he may have had with his post.
Mr S has also said that during the promotional period, the estimated interest figure for the 
next month is still given even though it isn't applicable. I've reviewed the statements for June 
and July 2018. Both of these statements give the estimated interest as £0. When interest 
started to be charged, it was shown on every statement. So, I think it's reasonable to 
suggest that Mr S should have been aware of interest being charged when he received his 
September 2018 statement.
I've also taken into account the email that BOI have said they sent to Mr S regarding the 
change of interest rate. Their records show the email was sent, but Mr S is adamant he 
hasn't received it. Again, I've no reason to disbelieve Mr S, but I'm from the evidence I've 
seen the email was sent. And I can't fairly hold BOI at fault because Mr S didn't receive 
it. Even if the email wasn't sent, the only requirement was for BOI to advise him of the 
changes in his monthly statement or by a separate notice.
It therefore follows that the subsequent email advising of the change was in addition to BOI's 
requirement under the terms of the account. Because BOI advised Mr S of the change in his 
monthly statement, I'm satisfied they've met their requirements.
Based on everything I've seen, I can't fairly say BOI have done anything wrong. And I won't 
be asking them to do anything else in relation to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman