DRN-3379218
The complaint
Mr F has complained MotoNovo Finance Limited has continued to ask him to pay a hire 
purchase agreement after he told them hed not taken possession of the car.
What happened
Mr F contacted MotoNovo in November 2019 three months after taking out a hire purchase 
agreement with them. He told them hed never taken possession of the car in August 2019 
when hed signed a hire purchase agreement. Whilst hed been expecting some work to be 
done, hed now realised the car had never had a valid MOT so believed the dealer was in 
breach of consumer legislation.
MotoNovo confirmed Mr F had signed the agreement and had made initial payments. In 
discussion with the dealer they understood Mr F had always known the car didnt have a 
valid MOT. If Mr F was unaware of the location of the car they advised him to contact the 
police. They were unwilling to offer Mr F any further assistance.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He explained hed been in further contact with the 
dealership (who Ill call M) and they confirmed the agreement would be cancelled. However 
this didnt happen. M stopped operations. As Mr F realised MotoNovo still expected him to 
make payments, he wanted our service to confirm hed never taken possession of the car.
We ensured that MotoNovo received an email from M confirming that the hire purchase 
agreement should be unwound and Mr F had never had the car. 
After lengthy delays from MotoNovo, our investigator reviewed the evidence. He found there 
was no evidence to suggest Mr F had ever taken possession of the car. He also noted that 
the actual owner of the car disputed Mr Fs testimony that he was able to view the car. As 
there was a breach of contract with Mr F taking out a hire purchase agreement without ever 
possessing the car, our investigator asked MotoNovo to cancel the hire purchase 
agreement, remove any reference to this from Mr Fs credit record, repay all payments Mr F 
had made along with 8% simple interest.
MotoNovo didnt believe they should do this. They also made allegations about M and the 
potential for Mr F being involved in a fraud.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman as no agreement could be reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I confirm that prior to completing this final decision I asked Mr F to provide us with more 
information about the circumstances of his supposed purchase at M. Hes been adamant 
that he viewed the car but noticed it was faulty immediately and exercised his right to get it 
repaired.
I also asked MotoNovo to share evidence of what they believed was a wider fraud ring with 
Ms involvement. Theyve had ample opportunity to provide us with this in confidence but 
nothing has been forthcoming. However I am aware from Ms liquidators annual report that 
police have progressed to charging Ms director. This service also has other cases where its 
been suggested M did show cars that resembled cars the customer thought they were 
buying. These cars were never at Ms premises nor were they available for M to sell.
Theres no dispute that Mr F took out the agreement. Initially Mr F wasnt concerned as he 
was expecting repairs to be carried out to the car he was purchasing. He was also not 
intending to use the car immediately as he was buying it as an investment. It was a few 
months later when he found out that M was unable to confirm where the car was. Hed also 
discovered that there was no valid MOT and there were some discrepancies with the record 
of the cars mileage.
In the end the resolution to this complaint is quite simple. As Mr F was never supplied with 
the car, even though he signed a related hire purchase agreement, I dont believe MotoNovo 
can expect him to pay the agreement. M was acting as their agent and its clear they didnt 
provide Mr F with his car. It also appears from Motonovos own evidence that this car was 
never available for purchase as it always remained in someone elses ownership.
I understand MotoNovo has suggested Mr F has been collusive in the fraud that M seems to 
have been involved in. But I have no evidence this is the case. 
I note there are some discrepancies in the evidence. Mr F has confirmed he took the car out 
for a test drive. However I can see nothing which would suggest this car  owned throughout 
by a third party  would have been available for M to allow customers to test drive. But I do 
know M, as noted above, showed cars to customers that resembled cars supposedly 
available for purchase.
Mr F did initially make payments under the hire purchase agreement but found himself 
unable to continue to do so when the pandemic hit. MotoNovo agreed he could pause 
repayments. Mr F then resumed payments in early 2021 with an agreement being sought 
that the cost of the missed payments would be spread out over the last year of the 
agreement.
Mr F has been upset that MotoNovo continued to mark his credit record that payments were 
due as opposed to being paused as agreed.
Putting things right
As I believe Mr F never purchased the car relating to this agreement, I am asking MotoNovo 
to put things right.
Mr F has also confirmed that no part-exchange ever proceeded as he kept his previous car 
but this hire purchase agreement did settle the outstanding costs of another hire purchase 
agreement. This was for £8,654 but the payments Mr F made towards this disputed 
agreement now more than exceed that amount.
MotoNovo will need to cancel the credit agreement, remove this from Mr Fs credit record 
and refund all payments hed made (minus £8,654) along with adding 8% simple interest a 
year.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Motonovo Finance Limited to:
Cancel the hire purchase agreement in Mr Fs name;
Remove this agreement from Mr Fs credit record;
Refund all payments Mr F has made under this agreement, except £8,654; and
Add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payments until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman