DRN-2234652
The complaint
Mr S complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Premier Financial 
Planning (Premier) to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
plan. He says he should have been advised to consider the in-house options instead. 
What happened
In September 1999, at the age of 35, Mr S became a teacher and joined the Teachers 
Pension Scheme (TPS). One month later he met with Premier and discussed the benefits he 
would receive from the TPS. Because of the likely significant shortfall in his service he was 
advised to take out a FSAVC. The initial premium was £52 per month and was invested into 
an ethical fund. The plan was set up to run to a normal retirement age of 60. The suitability 
report he was provided with did confirm the three options with which he could increase his 
pension provision - including 'past added years and in-house Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (AVC). 
In April 2019, using a claims management company, Mr S complained about suitability of the 
advice he'd been given. He said he'd been looking at his retirement options and began to 
realise how little income his FSAVC would provide. He thought he might have been better off 
using alternative in-house options. Premier said it was satisfied with the advice it gave in 
1999. It said it had sent Mr S regular invitations to subsequently review his plan, and hed 
also received annual statements from the provider. As a result, it felt that Mr S should have 
complained previously and had now been brought outside of the time limits allowed.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and we looked into whether it could be considered. My 
decision was that it could be considered, as I didnt think Ms S ought reasonably to have 
become aware of a cause to complain more than three years before he did complain, based 
on the reasons Premier gave. So our investigator looked at whether the advice to take out a 
FSVC had been suitable.
She said she thought Premier had made Mr S aware of all his options and hed signed the 
recommendation letter to confirm his understanding. But he was keen to invest ethical funds, 
which werent available through the in-house alternatives  so she didnt think the advice to 
take out an FSAVC was unsuitable.
Mr Ss representative didnt agree and made the following points in asking for the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman:
Mr S entered the teaching profession late and had only been employed for one 
month when he met Premier. Therefore, the suggestion that he needed flexibility and 
the ability to be able switch plans due to a career change wasnt applicable here.
The point of sale documents didnt show that Premier had discussed the greater tax 
efficiency of the in-house options.
The FSAVC charges were inaccurate because of the issues surrounding with-profit 
funds and their hidden, complex charges.
Mr S had said that investing in ethical funds wasnt the most important factor in 
providing greater retirement provision. Had he been made aware of the significant 
difference in charges its likely Mr S would have chosen the cheaper in-house option.
It isnt normally considered best advice to recommend an FSAVC over an in-house 
AVC.
The investigator set out the regulatory procedures that advisers were expected to follow 
around FSAVC sales and concluded that Premier had followed them. She said specifically 
that Premier had made Mr S aware of the differences between the FSVAC and in-house 
options in 1999.
So as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know 
this outcome will disappoint Mr S, but I dont think Premiers advice was unsuitable  so Ill 
explain my reasons.
In order to decide whether this complaint should be upheld I need to look at the 
responsibilities of an independent financial adviser (IFA) when making an FSAVC 
recommendation in 1999. At that time an IFA needed to know its client, which meant it 
shouldnt make a recommendation unless it was sure no other investment would be more 
advantageous, and that it had taken care to ensure a consumer had enough information to 
decide whether to accept a recommendation. In other words, an IFA needed to look into all 
the relevant issues of FSAVCs and in-house AVCs, specific to Mr S, and compare the 
options before making a recommendation.
A regulatory update in May 1996 reiterated what IFAs should discuss when comparing the 
specific differences between FSAVCs and AVCs. It said the discussion should include:
The difference in charges and expenses between the FSAVC and AVC.
The choice of investments.
The availability of added years and the number of years that could be purchased.
The degree of personal control and privacy.
The age at which benefits could be taken.
The degree of portability on changing jobs or becoming self-employed.
So, Ive looked at Premiers reasons why letter which set out its recommendation and 
summarised the discussions that it had with Mr S.  The letter confirmed Mr Ss main options 
which were:
Added years
In-house AVCs 
FSAVCS
A summary of the options was then set out with reference to each of the above discussion 
points. 
With regards to the AVCs the letter confirmed there was a 1% charge, a choice of three 
investment options, that benefits could be taken between 50 and 75  regardless of whether Mr S continued to work  and that Mr S could transfer the AVC to another pension scheme 
should he leave his job.
These same features and benefits were set out for FSAVCs and an explanation of added 
years and how it worked was also provided. It was up to Premier to find out how all the 
issues mentioned applied to Mr S and the options available and it needed to compare the 
FSAVC and in-house options before making its recommendations.
Based on the regulators requirements of what it needed to do, Im satisfied that Premier did 
make Mr S aware of his options and explicitly explained the differences. I note particularly 
with regards to charges, Premier, having confirmed the AVCs had a 1% overall charge, also 
confirmed the FSAVC had a 5% bid offer spread on contributions, an annual management 
charge of 0.625% and a monthly policy fee of £2.95  which itself was nearly 6% of each 
monthly contribution. Premier summarised the FSAVC charges by explaining that it would 
have the same effect as bringing down investment growth by 2%, based on the mid-range 
assumption used in its illustration.  So I think Premier did make Mr S fully aware of the 
difference in charges especially and I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr S would have 
chosen the cheaper option if hed been aware of the significant difference in costs.
Ive said that Premier ought to have set out the difference in charges between the FSAVC 
and in-house AVC as well as covered the other factors for both options. And Mr Ss 
representative has said that it isnt usually best advice to recommend an FSAVC over an 
AVC.  But this isnt always necessarily the case and another one of the reasons for deciding 
that a recommendation for FSAVCs might be suitable is where a consumer preferred a 
particular type of investment that wasnt available within the in-house AVC. 
In this case both the fact find and the reasons why letter that Premier completed referred to 
Mr Ss desire to invest in ethical funds  which wasnt one of the three in-house investment 
offerings. Mr S has said that this wasnt the most important factor in deciding what option to 
take and that he would have preferred lower charges if hed been made aware of that 
opportunity within the AVC. But Ive already explained that I think Mr S was made aware of 
the significant difference in charges between the two options and I think there was some 
relevance to the discussion around ethical funds.
I dont think Premier, on its own, would have brought up the question of ethical funds for 
discussion. I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr S would have spoken about his 
interest in such funds as indicated by the specific types of things Mr S didnt want to invest in 
 such as arms and tobacco. So, I think this was important to Mr S and I think its reasonable 
that Premier took this into account as another factor when making its recommendation. Such 
ethical funds werent available within the AVC and as Im satisfied Mr S had been made 
aware of the significant difference in charges between the FSAVC and the AVC, I think the 
recommendation was therefore not unsuitable and allowed Mr S to make an informed 
decision. I think Mr S was in possession of the information the regulator said needed to be 
provided and discussed.
I have also considered the other in-house option of past added years and whether Mr S 
might have considered this as an alternative. I should start by saying thats its unlikely Mr S 
would have wanted to spend a potentially greater monthly amount to get the same projected 
benefits from added years as he could have done from an AVC or FSAVC. In this case I 
dont think Mr S would have chosen the added years option because I think this would have 
appeared more expensive to him and it was likely the benefits from an in-house AVC 
scheme would have been higher. 
I also think that an added years facility would have required contributions to rise in line with 
salary increases, but I note that Mr Ss FSAVC premium remained at the same level until at least the 2005 statement which was 6 years after he started. So I dont think Mr S would 
have been comfortable with the ongoing affordability of added years. 
Ive also seen that it was agreed that Mr S had a balanced attitude to risk  which was 
especially important when considering the type of ethical investments he preferred. And with 
25 years or so to his retirement age Mr S had a reasonably long investment horizon over 
which to invest for the potential growth he wanted. So its difficult to conclude the advice was 
unsuitable against the added years option when the requirement for some form of 
investment is taken into account. Added years would have contained no investment and I 
dont think that was consistent with what was agreed as Mr Ss risk profile.
Ultimately here I think Premier did make Mr S aware of all the options available to him when 
they engaged in a discussion about increasing his retirement provision. I think the 
advantages and disadvantages of all three options were discussed and then set out in the 
reasons why letter. But most importantly I think the required topics of discussion and 
comparison, as confirmed by the regulator in its update of May 1996 were covered, and Mr S 
was made aware of those reference points, particularly the cost difference which showed the 
AVC to be a considerably cheaper alternative.
But Mr S was, in my view, made fully aware of that position  and with his preference for 
ethical investments another important deciding factor, meant that the advice to take out an 
FSVAC wasnt unsuitable in my opinion.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman