DRN-2906789
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage payment protection policy (PPI) in 1994 to help cover a 
joint mortgage they had at the time. Im aware they have complained to us about several 
things, so to be clear, Im addressing only the PPI aspect of their complaint in this decision. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were mis-sold the PPI policy with their mortgage. 
Santander UK PLC is now responsible for answering the complaint, so to keep things 
consistent, Ill mainly refer to Santander throughout this decision.
What happened
I can see that one of our adjudicators has comprehensively assessed this complaint. They 
told Mr and Mrs S that it is unlikely to be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicator and asked for their complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in carefully deciding this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. This is my final decision.
I wont be covering everything Mr and Mrs S have said in here as their complaint runs to 
many pages. Nevertheless, Ive read everything they have sent in and Id like to assure 
them that I understand what they are complaining about, and I also take note of the 
opinions they have put forward in support of their complaint. I can also see Mr and Mrs S 
appear to feel very strongly they were mis-sold this type of cover. Again, I note these 
concerns.
I also certainly dont doubt that they now genuinely feel the PPI was mis-sold to them. 
However, these events are from a long time ago and I therefore factor into my decision how 
the passage of time might have affected their recollections of events. 
Unfortunately, Santander hasnt been able to supply much information about the sale and I 
see it initially couldnt find any details of the policy Mr and Mrs S alleged was mis-sold to 
them. Whilst Im sure this will have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs S, it does seem the 
policy was taken out back in 1994 and probably cancelled as far back as 1999. This was a 
long time ago and businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely; being unable to 
find sale documentation from so long ago isnt something Im going to hold against the 
business.
Theres no evidence at all that Mr and Mrs S were sold this policy without their consent. 
They themselves recall discussions about mortgage protection and their contention here is 
that they both wanted this type of cover  but that only Mr S was subsequently found to be 
named on the policy. They say they both earned similar amounts and had specifically asked 
for both names to be on the policy.
As Ive said, we have very little from Santander to refer to although Im obliged to Mr and 
Mrs S who themselves retained some mortgage related documents. These, together with 
what Santander has gleaned from the insurers, tends to support the fact that this was 
indeed a single policy on which only Mr S was named.
This was an advised sale, so Santander had a responsibility to ensure the cover was set 
up in a suitable way. Clearly, Mr and Mrs S say it was not - but Im afraid I disagree.
Other than Mr and Mrs Ss assertion that they wanted joint cover, there is no evidence to 
support this. Indeed, we see many similar cases, where PPI was set up to cover one party, 
rather than both. In this case, whilst they appear to have similar salaries, its clear to me 
that Mr and Mrs S enjoyed quite different benefits with their jobs. In all likelihood, Mrs S 
would have had much better sickness protection than her husband and this is corroborated 
in the papers Ive seen.
This was a mortgage  with a high loan-to-value ratio  secured on their home. So having 
mortgage protection wasnt unusual. And such a policy being recommended to them wasnt 
wrong, in my view. Mr S appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we tend to see in these policies. And as the mortgage was secured 
against Mr and Mrs Ss home, the consequences of them not being able to keep up 
payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, for example, the 
cover would have paid out for up to 36 months in certain cases. This would have been in 
addition to  and much longer than - any other means Mr S already had in place at the time. 
I cant say why Mr and Mrs S decided to buy this policy in this way, but Ive suggested 
above one possible reason  that Mr Ss need for cover was greater than Mrs Ss, who was 
a public sector employee. However, I dont think it being recommended it to them in the way 
it was, was unreasonable or wrong. 
I think the policy was suitable.
 
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm after several decades if Mr and Mrs S were told everything they 
ought to have been. But I can see the costs of the cover were set out on the forms they 
would have been given, as were some brief details about what was covered. I think its 
highly likely in the circumstances that they had enough information on which to make an 
informed decision. All the evidence points to them having a discussion with a mortgage 
adviser.
As Ive said, Mr and Mrs S now allege that they were sold a policy that fell short of what 
they had asked for. However, Ive seen a great many similar sales to this. My overwhelming 
experience is that they would have been given a policy schedule which would have set out 
who and what was covered. As this was their mortgage, I would have expected Mr and Mrs 
S to have wanted to read those types of policy-related documents with care and to point out 
any anomalies that they thought existed. There is no evidence Ive seen that they did this.
In summary, I think theres evidence that Mr and Mrs S engaged in the discussions about 
this sale and they probably went through a number of steps to get the policy. I find no 
evidence to support their allegation that they were paying for a double policy with only one 
person being insured. I think the policy being set up in the way it was would have been 
driven by Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances. My final decision is that there is insufficient evidence to say the PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
I do not direct Santander UK PLC to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman