DRN-3493543
The complaint
Ms T complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms T was given a guarantor loan by Bamboo in February 2020. She borrowed £5000 and 
agreed to repay this over 60 months. Ms T has a balance to repay with this loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Bamboo gathered some information from Ms T before it agreed to lend. It asked Ms T about 
her income and expenditure. It says it verified her income by using an online tool. It says it 
used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess Ms Ts living expenses. It also 
carried out a credit check and used this to work out her credit commitments. 
Ms T was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. She was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 5 years. So, I think it is right that Bamboo wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Ts financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think Bamboos checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Bamboo gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that Bamboo conducted. The search showed that Ms T 
had 2 credit cards, a bank account, a mail order account and 2 loans. The credit Ms T had 
taken out seemed to be well managed. She was not in arrears with any of her accounts and I 
couldnt see any other signs that she was having problems managing her finances or that 
the loan wasnt affordable for her. I think when I consider how much Ms Ts verified monthly 
income was, and how much assessed disposable income she had, on balance, the loan was 
affordable for her. The repayments on her credit and the repayment for this loan did 
represent a fairly sizable proportion of Ms Ts monthly income. But in the circumstances, I 
have already described, on balance, I think the loan was sustainably affordable for her.
I think that the checks Bamboo performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that Ms T 
was facing any current problems in managing her finances. I think Bamboo was entitled to 
rely on what Ms T said about her finances, and what she intended to use the loan for. And 
that information suggested that she would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on 
the loan. So, I dont currently think Bamboo was wrong to give the loan to Ms T.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Bamboo responded and no further comments to make. Ms Ts 
representatives responded and asked if I had considered Ms Ts bank statements as I 
had not mentioned them within my provisional decision. It then sent a further message to 
say that it had nothing further than that to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ts representatives asked in response to my provisional decision if I had considered the 
bank statements it submitted on behalf of Ms T, as I did not mention them. 
I concluded in my provisional decision, that there was nothing that Bamboo would have 
had it front of it that would have shown Ms T was struggling to manage her finances. Or 
anything that would have given it concerns that she couldnt repay the loan in a sustainable 
way. This means I didnt think it needed to carry out further checks, and in turn I didnt need 
to see what it would have most likely seen if it had. So, this is why I didnt mention Ms Ts 
bank statements within the provisional decision.
Bamboo was required to ensure that it made proportionate checks when it agreed to lend 
to Ms T and then make a fair lending decision. I think on balance, in the circumstances of 
Ms Ts complaint, it did this.
With that being the case, I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman