DRN-3342270
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Christian Paul Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.tv
(ELBL) was irresponsible to have agreed credit for her.
What happened
ELBL provided Miss R with a loan of £1,000 in May 2017. The total amount of £2,050, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 18 instalments of £114 (figures 
rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss R 
provided ELBL with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss R didnt make her 
loan repayments ELBL could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the 
vehicle.
It seems Miss R made two payments for the loan and then fell into sustained arrears. By 
mid-November 2017, about six months after taking out the loan, ELBL recovered Miss Rs 
car. I understand she then made three payments totalling almost £1,800 that month to 
repay the loan in full and retrieve her car.
Miss R says that the loan was completely unaffordable for her because she was a 
compulsive gambler and spent virtually every penny she earned. She says this would 
have been obvious from her bank statements. Miss R also says that she had no prior 
knowledge that her car was to be recovered because ELBL had been sending letters to 
the wrong address. She says this caused her a great deal of stress to the extent it 
seriously impacted on her health.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Rs complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld because they concluded that ELBL had lent irresponsibly. They recommended 
that ELBL refund all interest and charges paid on the loan to Miss R, along with 
compensatory interest, and that all adverse information relating to it be removed from 
Miss Rs credit file.
Miss R accepted the recommendation, but ELBL didnt agree with it. The case came to me, 
as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional decision on  28  January 
explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Rs complaint.  Miss R agreed with  my provisional 
decision but ELBL didnt response. This is my final decision on the matter and will be legally 
binding on both parties if Miss R accepts it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having had no comment or new information from either party to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions and so I am 
upholding Miss Rs complaint. Ill set out again my reasons for doing so. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, ELBL will be familiar with the regulations that were 
in place at the time so I will summarise these. ELBL needed to check that Miss R could 
afford to meet her repayments sustainably before agreeing credit for her. In other words 
it needed to check that Miss R could meet her repayments out of her usual means 
without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other 
adverse consequences. The necessary checks needed to be proportionate to the nature 
of the credit and to Miss Rs circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that ELBL needed to pay due regard to Miss Rs 
interests and treat her fairly. The regulations (see CONC 2.2.2G) gave an example of 
contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements 
which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, 
health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did ELBL complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Rs application to satisfy itself that she 
would be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, 
did ELBL make a fair lending decision? Ive also considered whether ELBL acted 
unfairly in any other way.
ELBL provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending 
decision. This included a record of its income and expenditure analysis, copies of 
Miss Rs payslips from several weeks prior to the lending and a recent credit card bill of 
hers. ELBL accepted the figures Miss R gave about her monthly net income and 
expenditure, £2,500 and £1,198 respectively, and calculated that this left her with a 
monthly surplus of £1,302.
As set out in the regulations at the time (see CONC 5.3.1G(4)) if a business takes income 
or expenditure into account in its assessment it is generally not sufficient for it to rely solely 
on a statement of those matters made by the customer. Although ELBL verified Miss Rs 
income, I cant see that it took steps to independently verify what shed said about her 
outgoings. Miss R would need to meet her repayments for 18 months and the 
consequences of not doing so were potentially serious in that she might lose her car. 
Furthermore, it seems odd  to me that Miss R would have had such a relatively high 
surplus each month, considering she was prepared to take out an expensive loan for less 
than this amount. Altogether, I dont think ELBL took sufficient steps here to check that 
this loan would be sustainable for Miss R over the term.
In addition, Ive noted that the credit card statement Miss R provided to ELBL showed that 
she had taken cash advances and exceeded her credit limit of £200. The statement said 
that she needed to pay £46 immediately to bring her account under its limit. I think this 
information ought to have raised concerns about how Miss R was managing her money 
and prompted further checks by ELBL. CONC 5.3.7R stated that a lender must not accept 
an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where it knows or ought 
reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in relation to information 
supplied. I think ELBL ought to have investigated the apparent inconsistency between 
Miss Rs declared monthly surplus and her management of credit.
Miss R has provided some information about her financial circumstances at the time by 
way of bank statements. I am not suggesting this is the information ELBL ought to have 
gathered but I think its a reasonably proxy for what it was likely to have found out through 
proportionate checks. The statements show that Miss R was spending significantly large 
amounts on gambling. For example, Miss R spent over £3,000 in February 2017 and over £2,000 in March; there were gambling-related withdrawals shown on her bank statements 
for 15 days in March, and the numbers of transactions per day often reached double 
figures. I think this pattern of spending would have raised serious concerns for ELBL 
about the suitability of a loan for Miss R and the risk to her of not managing to meet her 
repayments sustainably over the term of the loan.
ELBL says that it isnt fair to include gambling expenditure but to exclude gambling 
winnings when considering these transactions in relation to affordability. It says if 
gambling winnings are not guaranteed then neither is gambling expenditure. Even if I 
were to agree with this viewpoint, I can see that Miss Rs monthly gambling spend in the 
three months prior to the loan always exceeded the gambling-related deposits, for 
example by over £1,000 in March 2017. So I dont think that consideration of Miss Rs 
winnings alongside her gambling spend would have offered any reassurance to ELBL that 
the loan would be sustainable for her.
Ive noted that Miss R spent ELBLs loan on gambling within a few days, returning her 
bank balance to about £20. As mentioned, Miss R struggled to meet her repayments and 
her car was recovered by ELBL with the intent to sell it to recoup its money. Altogether, 
Ive concluded that ELBL was irresponsible to have agreed this loan for Miss R and so it 
needs to put this right.
I have also considered what Miss R said about the recovery of her car. ELBL said that it 
sent Miss R a notice of sums in arrears on the 25 September 2017 followed by a default 
notice on the 2 October. Miss R got in touch a few days later on the 5 October to discuss a 
repayment plan. When no payments were subsequently made, ELBL sent Miss R a final 
demand notice.
Ive seen copies of these letters, all headed with the same address for Miss R. I think its 
reasonable to accept that Miss R saw the default notice as she made contact a few days 
later. It then also seems reasonable to accept that Miss R saw all of these letters and 
understood that her car would be recovered to repay the debt. So I havent concluded that 
ELBL got something wrong regarding its communications to Miss R about the 
consequences of not paying her debt.
I understand that Miss Rs car was taken on the 13 November 2017. Miss R agreed to pay
£200 on the 17th, £800 on the 24th and £798 on the 1 December and did so, and the 
car was returned to her.
Miss R says that she borrowed money from her family to repay the loan as she needed 
her car to get to work and that she was able to use a family members car during the 
time she was without hers. Miss R also says that she had difficulty with her mental 
health at the time and the recovery of her car and her subsequent reliance on her family 
to support her contributed to a serious deterioration in her health and a breakdown in 
these relationships.
Let me say again that I dont doubt what Miss R has told us about this matter and Im 
sorry to hear things have been so difficult for her. I understand she struggled with her 
finances and her health before taking out this loan, and so I cant reasonably attribute all 
of her difficulties to this particular lending decision.
That said, I have borne in mind CONC 7.3.10R which states that a business must not 
pressurise a customer to pay a debt in one single or very few repayments or in 
unreasonably large amounts when to do so would have an adverse impact on the 
customers financial circumstances. I think Miss R suffered distress and inconvenience 
when ELBL recovered her car and she had to make alternative arrangements. And, while I understand from the customer records that Miss R had previously made an offer of a 
regular payment and didnt manage to put this in place, it seems to me that she felt 
pressured to repay the loan in a short space of time and, having no other recourse, 
needed to rely on borrowed money to meet this debt.
Therefore Ive concluded that ELBL should pay Miss R some compensation for the 
adverse impact this action had on her. As set out on our website, an award of £300 or 
over might be fair where the impact of an action has caused considerable upset and worry 
and significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to sort out, typically over weeks or 
months. Ive concluded that an award in this bracket would be appropriate here.
Putting things right
I understand that the loan has been repaid. As Miss R had the use of the money she 
borrowed I think its right that she has repaid that. However, I dont think she should have 
paid any interest or fees and shouldnt have her credit file impacted. In order to put things 
right for Miss R, ELBL needs to:
a) Refund to Miss R payments she made above the amount of £1,000 she 
borrowed. To be clear this includes any interest or charges associated with the 
credit or its collection; and
b) Add 8% simple interest* per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Pay Miss R an amount of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience she 
suffered when ELBL recovered her car; and
d) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Rs credit file; and
e) Revoke any interest it has in Miss Rs car if any is still in place and return the 
relevant documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELBL to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint about Christian Paul 
Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.tv and direct it to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman