DRN-4130613
The complaint
A company which Ill call P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc treated them unfairly when 
it didnt remove a charge over their property as expected or make them aware this was 
outstanding. 
The complaint is brought on Ps behalf by one of their directors, Mr M.
What happened
P held a mortgage and Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with Barclays, who in turn held a charge 
over their commercial property.
P told us:
Barclays had delayed removing the charge which they thought had been removed in 
September 2021 when theyd repaid their mortgage. 
They werent aware the charge was outstanding until they sold the property, and the 
sale was looking to complete. Barclays then said the charge wouldnt be removed 
until P had also repaid the BBL. 
It was unfair of Barclays to request repayment of the BBL which was a government 
backed loan, however even if it had been the case, the bank could have requested 
this be repaid from the sale of the property which was significantly more than the 
BBL.
The overall service theyd received from Barclays including throughout their 
complaint had been poor. Theyd incurred additional legal and business fees due to 
the sale completion being delayed for a month and the directors had been caused 
distress. 
Barclays told us:
It agreed there had been a delay in removing the charge from Ps property as a result 
of them not being told the BBL would have to be repaid for this to be removed.
Once the charge had been investigated, the bank took the decision to request the 
BBL be repaid before the charge was released as it looked like P was no longer 
trading.
It had apologised for not telling P quickly enough that the BBL needed to be repaid 
and for the poor service they had received and offered £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and towards the additional fees P had incurred. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that it was 
reasonable that Barclays hadnt removed the original charge as it was an all monies charge 
and would remain in place whilst P owed any money to the bank. However, she thought that 
Barclays should have made it clearer sooner that P needed to repay their BBL to remove the 
charge. But she thought that Barclays offer of £500 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused was enough to put things right. 
P didnt agree. They said that Barclays had been aware from the outset that they were 
selling the building and wouldnt require any borrowing facilities going forward. They also 
said it wasnt reasonable that the bank took so long to make them aware of the issue and 
that they could have repaid the BBL as a condition of the sale. P said the compensation 
wasnt enough and provided evidence of the expenses they said theyd incurred as a result 
of the banks error and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says thats its unfair Barclays didnt release the charge over Ps property in September 
2021 when the mortgage was repaid  given that the BBL was a government backed loan. 
But I dont agree. I say this because, Ive seen evidence from Barclays which shows that it 
isnt part of the banks process to automatically release charges held over security  
regardless of the type of charge held. The request is usually submitted by the customer and 
removal of the charge will depend on if the security is still required  as it was in this case  
as a guarantee against any other lending held by the bank.  
I recognise Mr M feels it was unfair that Barclays requested that P repay the BBL before it 
would release the charge over the property, but I dont agree. I say this because Ive listened 
to the call between the bank and Ps legal team in April 2022, Im satisfied that the bank 
made it clear that the release of charges held by the bank was on a case by case basis and 
subject to a review of the individual circumstances, which is why on the call it requested an 
email from P to review this. Its a commercial decision the bank is able to take in deciding 
whether or not to release a security charge whilst lending of any kind is still outstanding, and 
also when it chooses to do so i.e. before the sale rather than as a condition of the sale. So I 
cant reasonably say Barclays acted unfairly here.  
Mr M also says that Barclays didnt contact him after hed sent an email on 13 April 2022 
requesting that the charge be removed from Ps property and didnt reply until after 12 May 
when he chased again. However, Ive seen a copy of the email that was sent to the bank 
and the email address for Barclays was spelt incorrectly, which means the bank wouldnt 
have received the email. Mr M says that this error was due to the bank giving incorrect 
details, however on the call between Barclays and Ps legal team, I heard that the 
information was correctly provided on several occasions. I also havent seen any evidence 
that any other correspondence was sent to Barclays during that month period, so I cant 
reasonably hold it responsible for not replying in a timely manner to correspondence it didnt 
receive or for an initial error with the email address which it didnt cause.
Mr M told us that the directors had been caused distress and inconvenience due to Barclays 
actions. But this complaint has been brought on Ps behalf, so P is the eligible complainant. 
This means that I cant look at any distress or inconvenience caused to the directors in a 
personal capacity. Limited companies like P, as corporate bodies rather than individuals, are 
not capable of suffering distress, which means I can only look at the inconvenience caused 
to P by Barclays actions. 
I dont dispute there has been an impact here, but I do have to consider that the delay P 
says they suffered wasnt fully a result of errors caused by Barclays. I agree that Barclays 
could have told P more quickly that it wanted the BBL repaid before completion, but Im not 
persuaded this led to the additional costs which P says they have incurred. Therefore given 
all the circumstances of Ps complaint, I think £500 is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
I think its clear that Barclays handling of Ps charge removal request caused them 
inconvenience. To put things right I think Barclays should pay P the £500 compensation it 
has already offered.My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay P £500 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman