DRN-3046168
The complaint
Miss J said that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Creation provided the following loan to Miss J:
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountApproximate  
monthly  
repayment*
March 2018 Outstanding 48 £10,000 £286.38
Miss J told us that when she applied for this loan, she also had a number of other loans in 
place and she had only recently been released from an IVA (an individual voluntary 
arrangement  this is a formal debt solution to repay money owed to creditors). She said she 
was still struggling financially and doesnt feel Creation checked if she could afford the loan 
or review her spending habits at the time which included gambling. Shes unhappy that 
Creation registered a default when she ran into payment problems and sold the loan to a 
third party - and that it has now sold the loan again after it was returned to the lender. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Miss J disagreed with our investigators view. She mainly said that whilst she understands 
that on the surface it appeared she could afford the repayments, if Creation had checked her 
bank statements (like responsible lenders tend to) it wouldve seen the issues she had, 
especially after having completed an IVA not long before. She told us that if Creation had 
asked a question about gambling she would have answered honestly but it failed to do that 
in her opinion.
Miss J has sent us bank statements and an up to date credit report in support of her 
complaint.
Miss J asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Miss Js complaint. Id like to reassure Miss J that 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
When Miss J applied for this loan, Creation asked her for information about her finances and 
carried out some credit checks. It has sent me a summary of the results it obtained.
Creation recorded Miss Js salary was around £2,025 per month and I think that was broadly 
about right. I can see from the bank statements Miss J has provided that there was some 
variation in her pay from month to month but her salary in the three months running up to her 
taking out this loan was never less than £1,981. After making allowance for her normal 
monthly spending, including what it saw she owed her other existing creditors, Creation felt 
that the amount of disposable income she had available was ample to cover the monthly 
repayments on its loan. 
The credit checks Creation carried out showed that Miss J had no active county court 
judgements registered within the previous six years and no defaults on her record within the 
last four years. 
It noted that, at worst, she had been three payments in arrears over the course of the 
previous four years but she wasnt currently in arrears or default  and that had been the 
position for at least the last twelve months.Miss J says Creation shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
her. But I think its fair to say that all the information Creation had gathered tended to 
suggest that Miss J seemed to be managing her credit without any signs that she had 
ongoing money problems or a serious debt problem. It wouldnt be unusual for someone 
applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit 
history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. I dont think the amount 
of debt shown on Miss Js credit checks was excessive having regard to her income or that 
anything else revealed in the credit checks Creation carried out was enough for me to say 
that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out more before lending or that 
it should have refused the loan application. 
Id expect Creation to decide Miss Js lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This means that some information Miss J might expect 
to see reflected on a credit check may not have been identified by a credit check done by 
Creation when she applied for this loan. 
To sum up, I dont think it was unreasonable for Creation to lend here  especially as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss J wouldnt be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 
Creation to probe any more deeply into Miss Js finances or ask Miss J to prove what she 
was declaring (by requiring her to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other 
information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial 
circumstances. 
I have no reason to doubt Miss J when she says she would have responded honestly to a 
direct question about gambling, but this wasnt something I would necessarily expect a 
responsible lender to enquire into if there was nothing to suggest this might be a particular 
concern. I dont think anything Creation saw in the information it had in front of it would have 
alerted a responsible lender to think that Miss Js spending on gambling (or anything else) 
was out of control or that her use of credit showed hallmarks of someone struggling to gain 
control of her debt. And I think its fair to say that Miss J was fully engaged in the application 
process and there would have been an opportunity for Miss J to mention this to the lender 
had she wished to alert it to her gambling spending.
I have also kept in mind that Miss J told Creation that she intended to use this loan for debt 
consolidation  in other words, to pay off other debt. I think in these circumstances Creation 
was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested Miss J was borrowing specifically 
to help her manage her finances more responsibly  and it looked like she ought to be able 
to afford to do that on the figures it worked out. 
I cant fairly say in this situation that Creation is responsible for adding to Miss Js debt 
problems if she didnt use the loan for its stated purpose. I think she could have used the 
loan to help her improve her financial situation. 
In particular, she couldve saved on credit card interest as it looks like she might have been 
making only minimum monthly repayments to her cards which adds very significantly to the 
long term cost of that credit  repayments at that level are insufficient to make any 
meaningful inroads into card balances. Im sorry that Miss J has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has 
proved difficult for her. I accept that Miss Js actual circumstances possibly werent fully 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information Creation obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that Creation did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Miss J. And I havent seen enough to make me think that Creation acted towards Miss J in 
any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. Creation seems to me to have responded 
fairly and reasonably when Miss J had problems keeping up with the loan monthly 
repayments. And I cant fairly say it wasnt entitled to sell her debt or that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it chose to do this.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss J and Im sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
I expect Creation to continue to work constructively with Miss J and to treat her positively 
and sympathetically as long as she is continuing to experience financial difficulty. I would 
encourage Miss J to provide full details of her financial situation to the new debt owner if she 
still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. And if Miss J would like help to 
manage her finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
support on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman