DRN-2253215
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander).
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr O. The car here was about 
three and a half years old and had completed about 59,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have some wear and tear. But I dont think a reasonable person 
would accept a car of this age and mileage was of satisfactory quality if it needed a new 
catalytic converter when supplied.
The relevant legislation explains that if theres a fault with the car when supplied and if the 
consumer returns it within thirty days, the business should allow the consumer to reject the 
vehicle.
Here Mr O says the dealership didnt give him the option to reject the car and he therefore 
had no option but to accept the repair. 
The relevant legislation explains that if a repair is accepted by a consumer they no longer 
have the right to reject the car. Im not sure that Mr O did accept the repair. It appears he 
was given no other option.
But even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation also says the repair should be 
completed in a reasonable time and here I dont think that was the case. Mr O returned the 
car to the dealership on 23 October 2019 and didnt get it back until about 11 December 
2019. Ive considered the nature of the work that was completed, and I dont think about 50 
days is a reasonable time to fix a catalytic converter and replace a piece of trim that had 
fallen off. I think its reasonable to suggest that sort of work would usually be completed in a 
day or two.
So, when Mr O asked to reject the car again on 26 November 2019, in an email to the 
dealership, I think that request should have been granted.  
Putting things right
Santander should collect the car at no cost to Mr O and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr O has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr O hasnt had the car, or a courtesy car, since 6 January 2020. So, Santander should 
refund any payments Mr O has made towards his agreement since that time and waive any 
payments that were due that havent been paid. They should add interest to any refund as 
Mr O has been deprived of that money.
Im not asking Santander to refund any payments for loss of use before that as Mr O had use 
of a courtesy car of a reasonably equivalent standard.
Mr O has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on at least a couple of occasions and has had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Santander 
should pay him £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr O has been paying his road tax and car insurance whilst the car has been at the 
dealership. I dont think it was fair to expect him to collect it as I think his rejection request 
should have been accepted. In those circumstances Santander should refund the parts of 
those payments Mr O hasnt benefited from whilst the car hasnt been in his possession. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
allow Mr O to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr O;
refund, or waive, any finance instalments paid, or due, from the 6 January 2020 to 
the date of settlement. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr O £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
provide a pro-rata refund of his road tax and car insurance for the period from 6 
January 2020 until settlement; on provision of receipts from Mr O;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in relation to 
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman