DRN-4450965
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Argentis Wealth Management Ltd, referred to as Argentis or 
the business.
Amongst several other complaint points, in summary, they say theyre concerned about the 
lack of service from the adviser since he took over in 2020, and the charges that have been 
applied. 
They say they were led to believe that the charges would be 1% but this wasnt the case. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes not persuaded that theres been lack of contact or service from Argentis since 
the adviser took over in 2020. If Mr and Mrs M needed further advice or guidance, 
they couldve got in touch with Argentis. 
A brief contact history from Argentis shows the following:
oIn May 2020, the adviser wrote to Mr and Mrs M and confirmed that the 
transfer  from their previous business  had been completed. 
oThe adviser confirmed that he phoned Mr and Mrs M in July 2020 and 
arranged a meeting in October 2020. 
oOn 6 October 2020, a meeting took place to discuss the ongoing suitability of 
their investments. On 5 November 2020, a letter was issued confirming the 
discussion that took place. 
oIn November 2021, there was a telephone conversation with the adviser after 
which the adviser sent the valuations. 
oIn March 2022 there was a meeting after which the adviser issued a report on 
24 March 2022 to confirm his recommendation with regards to investing 
£20,000 each. 
oIn March 2023, they decided to close their accounts. 
Hes not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M were told or led to believe that the total 
charges would be 1%. The 2020 correspondence between them and the adviser 
show that they were made aware of the charges.  
In a letter dated 5 November 2020, the adviser confirmed the following:
oWe want you to understand the various costs and charges that are 
associated with our services and recommended solutions, along with the 
effect that these may have on your investment return. These charges were 
detailed to you in your previous suitability report and can be broken down into 
the following categories: 
oAdvice fees: This is the fee paid to us and reflects your ongoing service 
agreement of Aspire. This may also include an initial charge if it has been 
paid during the period. The ongoing fee establishes the level of service that 
you can expect to receive from us. Please refer to the Value and Service 
Proposition that has previously been provided to you. 
oPlatform charge: This is the charge for setting up and administering your 
investment with the provider. 
oFund charges: These are taken by the fund managers and are reflected in the 
changing daily prices of funds. The Ongoing Charges Figure (OCF) is made 
up of the annual management charge (AMC) and other operating costs. The 
AMC is levied by the manager and is used to pay the investment manager, 
fund accountant, administrator and distributor. Other operating costs include 
those for extra services paid for by the fund, such as the fees paid to the 
trustee (or depositary), auditor and regulator.
The letter provided the following breakdown:
oAdvice fee of £2,431.29 or 1.04%
oTransaction & other costs £347.68 or 0.15% 
In March 2022, the adviser issued another report in which it confirmed the following:
oCharges for Mr M:
0.83% (or £166) charge for the fund.  
0.20% (or £40) for the platform charge. 
2% (or £400) for initial advice costs, and 1% (or £200) for ongoing 
advice.  
oCharges for Mrs M:
0.78% (or £152.88) charge for the fund. 
0.20% (or £39.20) for the platform charge.
2% (or £400) charge for the initial advice, and 1% (or £169). 
Despite what Mr and Mrs M say, hes satisfied that these reports were issued 
because a meeting took place. The second report was issued because they were 
invited to invest another £20,000 each. If they didnt receive any correspondence, 
they ought to have queried this with the business, but they didnt.
In September 2017, Mr and Mrs M had a meeting with their adviser in which it was 
confirmed that Inheritance Tax (IHT) planning wasnt considered because you either 
consider them uneconomical, not a priority at present, not relevant to your current 
circumstances or sufficiently provided for through current arrangements. Should your 
circumstances and priorities change in the future please let me know and I will be 
happy to provide you with suitable advice on any of these areas of Financial 
Planning.
A subsequent report produced in March 2022 confirms that IHT planning wasnt 
important to them at the time, and they asked the adviser to focus the advice on 
your investments in this instance.  
If they wanted IHT advice at the time or later, they shouldve confirmed this with the 
adviser. Based on the available evidence, it seems that IHT planning wasnt 
considered because it wasnt important to them at the time.  
Their concerns about the cheques  and being told to leave the dates blank  isnt 
supported by the evidence. Mr and Mrs M signed a declaration which confirmed the 
following: 
oHaving been notified by Compass Wealth Management that the 2 cheques 
payable to (third-party business, name anonymised) that we wrote were 
mistakenly undated, we authorise them to date both these cheques 22 March 
2022.
Had the adviser told them to leave the dates blank, it wouldve been reasonable for 
them to question why they were being asked to sign a declaration stating that it was 
done in error, because it was contrary to what they were told. 
Argentis accepts that it sent a valuation to the wrong address, it did so in error and 
no financial loss was sustained. However, if Mr and Mrs M continue to have concerns 
they may wish to consider referring their complaint to the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) who would be more suited to dealing with General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) style complaints. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In short, they said:
They didnt receive any of the correspondence referred to by the investigator  these 
were deliberately withheld from them. Theyd like proof that it was sent (securely) 
because they think it was never sent, or hand delivered. The business is now 
producing false documentation that its providing to the ombudsman service. 
They werent told what the declaration meant they were just told to sign the 
document. They wanted to proceed and were told to provide the cheques without the 
dates and the actual report wasnt signed by them. The adviser just came to the door 
and took the cheques and left because he had another client to see. 
Theyve not had any support from the business  Mr M is raising a separate 
complaint. 
Theyd be horrified if documentation containing very private and confidential 
information wasnt sent using a specialist recorded service. 
If Argentis continues to assert that it has sent the correspondence, it probably did so 
but to an incorrect address, as it did on a previous occasion. 
Theyre disappointed that the investigator is refusing to believe their account of 
events and is preferring the account of the business based on fraudulent information. 
The adviser who came to see them (in October 2020), never asked them about their 
personal financial circumstances. He spent the hour talking about himself. Theyre 
concerned about the suitability of the advice given. 
They are vulnerable clients, with major health problems and they trusted their 
adviser. They feel totally let down. 
They were offered a new adviser (over the phone) by Argentis  who was closer than 
the one who refused to travel down to them. They dont feel like they should be 
chasing the business about these matters because they pay a lot in fees. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
There have been contrary statements provided by all parties. Where thats 
happened, hes relied on documentary evidence to try and work out whats more 
likely than not happened. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs M say about not receiving the reports, he cant ignore the 
fact that they signed a declaration confirming that theyd been given a copy of this 
report, and also given a copy of the Service and Payment Agreement.  
As well as the declaration to confirm receipt of the report, and the service and 
payment agreement (which was attached separately), they also signed a service 
document in October 2020. 
Although the actual report wasnt signed by Mr and Mrs M, the adviser signed it and 
sent them a copy to sign as explained in the advisers letter dated 24 March 2022. Mr 
and Mrs M signed a copy and retuned the declaration to confirm receipt. 
If Mr and Mrs M are still concerned about confidential information (potentially) being 
sent to the wrong address, they can refer their complaint to the ICO. 
If Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy with the business, they can always move to another 
business. 
He hasnt considered the suitability of the advice because Argentis hasnt had an 
opportunity to consider that complaint which has been raised for the first time. So 
Argentis needs time to consider that.e 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs M say, I cant safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably such that the complaint should be upheld. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling, about this matter. They have provided 
detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. 
However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, I dont have to comment upon every single point made. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs M and Argentis, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In the 
circumstances, I dont need any further evidence to make my decision.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs M 
say, Im not persuaded that they didnt have any contact with the adviser. In other 
words, on the face of the available evidence, Im not persuaded that theres been a 
lack of contact or service from Argentis, since the adviser took over in 2020. The brief 
chronology referred to by the investigator, which represents a snapshot of what 
happened, demonstrates that theres been much contact, contrary to Mr and Mrs Ms 
assertion.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs M say, Im not 
persuaded that Argentis told them or led them to believe that the charge would only 
be 1% or that thered be no other charges/fees to pay. Its not how these investments 
generally work so far as fees are concerned because of third-party businesses being 
involved.   
The documentation referred to by the investigator in the background section of this 
decision  such as the November 2020 letter  clearly shows that other charges were 
referred to in the correspondence with Mr and Mrs M. So, I think that they knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known that thered be other charges/fees to pay  such as 
platform fees and fund charges.  
I note Mr and Mrs M say that they didnt receive the relevant documentation, even 
though the adviser says it was sent. In this instance, and on balance, I think its more 
likely than not the documentation was sent and received by Mr and Mrs M. 
Despite what they say, theres no obligation on Argentis to provide proof that it was 
sent or to send documentation recorded delivery or securely  thats not common 
industry practice. In other words, its not something that I need before I can conclude 
whether it was sent. 
In any case, I think its unlikely that they wouldnt have received any key 
documentation for any of their investments  including in relation to the £20,000 each 
subsequently invested  and wouldnt have said a thing. In other words, if they didnt 
receive anything, which I think is unlikely, I would expect them to have raised an 
issue.Despite what Mr and Mrs M say, Im not aware of there being an issue with the postal 
service, but even if there was, its not something I can blame Argentis for. In other 
words, I cant blame Argentis for the shortcomings of a third-party postal service.  
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that the correspondence wasnt sent. 
When a (third party) business provides evidence that a letter had been written, 
correctly addressed, and sent, this service generally would accept that position. In 
this case Im satisfied the relevant correspondence was correctly addressed and sent 
to Mr and Mrs M, to the same address Argentis had on file. And despite what they 
say, I think its unlikely that they wouldnt have received the relevant documentation. 
The above notwithstanding, I note Mr and Mrs M also signed a declaration to confirm 
receipt of the correspondence in question. I think its unlikely they wouldve done so if 
they didnt receive the material documents. 
Im aware of the dispute around the signatures attached to some documents, but 
despite what Mr and Mrs M say Ive seen no persuasive evidence that this was 
fabricated by the adviser or the business.
On balance, Im satisfied that the issue of IHT planning was probably raised, 
considered, and discounted as not being important at the time. On balance, the 
evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs M wanted to concentrate on the investment 
advice rather IHT liability. In other words, I cant say that IHT planning wasnt 
considered at all, or that Mr and Mrs M were persuaded to do something they didnt 
want to. In any case, Im aware that theres a separate complaint about the suitability 
in respect of which this issue might be relevant, so Ill say no more about that in this 
case.  
Despite what Mr and Mrs M say about the cheques, on the face of the evidence, and 
on balance, Im unable to safely say that this was likely to be the case. I note they 
signed a declaration expressly confirming that the cheques in question were 
mistakenly left undated. I think its unlikely they wouldve done this if it wasnt the 
case, regardless of what Mr and Mrs M say about whether or not the cheques were 
collected in person or whether they were provided in a stamp addressed envelope 
provided. 
I note Mr and Mrs M say that they didnt know what they were doing, and that they 
were just following orders. However, I think they ought reasonably to have known 
what they were signing and what this meant, which suggests that the cheques with 
the date missing was just an oversight rather than anything else. 
If Mr and Mrs M were orally told something different (to the declaration they were 
asked to sign), I think its more likely than not they wouldve raised an issue at the 
time. By not doing so Im unable to say that the adviser was misleading them, or 
worse being dishonest.  
I note Argentis accepts that it erroneously sent a valuation to the wrong address. But 
I note a word on the address was incorrect otherwise the area and the postcode was 
the same.  
In any case, the error was the result of human error, and no financial harm was done. 
Im also aware that the address the document was sent to  putting aside the correct 
postcode  didnt actually exist, so no one was likely to have received their 
documentation. 
Just to make it clear, Im not looking at whether Argentis is in breach of GDPR, thats 
beyond my remit. Mr and Mrs M may wish to direct any such complaints involving 
GDPR and its potential failings to the ICO rather than to our service from the outset. 
In other words, I agree with the investigator that if Mr and Mrs M continue to be 
concerned about what happened, they could refer their complaint to the ICO which 
specifically deals with complaints relating to potential GDPR and data breaches.   
Like the investigator, Ive also not considered the issue of suitability because Argentis 
hasnt yet had an opportunity to consider and respond to that (new) element of the 
complaint.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want to 
hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant safely say that Argentis behaved 
unreasonably such that this complaint should be upheld. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give them what they want.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman