DRN-4513728
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and provided when he was going 
through a difficult time.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr M with a loan for £2,000.00 in January 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £214.22.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr M has said that the monthly payments for the loan were unaffordable 
to him and caused him hardship so he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Ms application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr M did have some previous difficulties 
with debt in the form of a defaulted credit account but this was historic as it was from almost 
two and a half years prior. Equally, Mr Ms active unsecured debt total at the time of the 
application was low in comparison to his income. 
Nonetheless as Mr M had previously defaulted on a credit account, I would have expected         
118 118 Money to find out a bit more about Mr Ms actual living expenses before it decided 
to lend to him. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Ms actual 
living costs would have made a difference to 118 118 Moneys decision to lend in this 
instance. 
I say this because Ive not been provided with anything at all to show that when Mr Ms 
committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his 
monthly income, he did not have the funds to sustainably make the repayments due under 
this agreement. This is in circumstances where Mr M has been asked to provide this 
information.
I do accept that Mr M says that his actual circumstances at the time meant that hes ended 
up in arrears on his council tax and rent in order to make the payments to this loan. 
However, Mr M has not provided any evidence of these arrears despite having been asked 
to do so. And given the amount of the payments for this loan and the period of time that they 
were required to be made, its difficult to conclude that the payments in themselves are 
solely responsible for the arrears Mr M has described. I say this particularly as Mr Ms credit 
commitments were relatively up to date at the time of his loan application. 
Furthermore, if Mr M was told by 118 118 Money that not making payments to his loan could 
result in adverse credit file reporting, in the way he says he was, I dont think that this would 
have been unfair or unreasonable. I say this because this is a consequence of missing 
payments on a credit agreement and the regulators rules require a lender to notify a 
customer of this fact both during an application and should a customer say they are unable 
to make payments.
Id also add that as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was providing to Mr M, he had a low 
amount of active debt and there wasnt a history of Mr M obtaining funds and then returning 
for more, Im satisfied that 118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to believe that this loan 
would not increase Mr Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful either. 
As this is the case, and Ive not been provided with anything to demonstrate that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have shown this loan to be unaffordable for Mr M, I dont 
think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr M. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I would remind 118 118 Money of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in 
the event that it intends to collect the remaining payments on the agreement and Mr M is 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
Id also encourage Mr M to get in contact with 118 118 Money so that a repayment plan 
which works for both sides can be set up and eventually clear the amount that Mr M owes 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman