DRN-1536795
The complaint
Mr d has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account, called a Plus account. He paid a monthly fee for the account and received several 
potential benefits in return. He thinks that HSBC should refund him all the fees he paid, plus 
interest.
What happened
Mr d has banked with HSBC for quite a long time and has changed his account on several 
occasions. HSBC has looked at its records for him, which I believe to be reliable, and it has 
told us they show that:
 
in July 2000, he opened a fee-free account,
in March 2008, it sold him a Plus account, for which it charged him a monthly fee,
in September 2008, he went back to a fee-free account,
in January 2009, it sold him another Plus account and started to charge him monthly 
fees again, 
Mr d then kept the Plus account until at least 2019. 
Mr d seems to have agreed with this account history, and I have taken it to be accurate. 
He originally complained to HSBC about both occasions on which HSBC sold him Plus 
accounts. I understand that HSBC has accepted that on the first occasion (March 2008) it 
got things wrong and that it his has already compensated him for its mistake. So, I have not 
considered this sale any further, except where it is relevant to what happened later.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr ds complaint and didnt think that HSBC 
had mis-sold the Plus account to him. The adjudicator didnt recommend that HSBC should 
give Mr d any money back. Mr d didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr d and HSBC have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2009, HSBC, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts 
(including the Plus account) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both 
situations, as well as giving Mr d a choice, HSBC would have had to tell him about the Plus 
accounts costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale it would also have had to check 
that the Plus account was a reasonable choice for his circumstances. 
On our questionnaire, Mr d told us that HSBC advised him to buy the Plus account during a 
meeting at one of its branches. HSBC hasnt been able to tell us whether it sold the Plus 
account to Mr d during a meeting, over the phone or in some other way, but it believes that it 
did so on an information-only basis. There are no detailed records from the time, and I cant 
tell for sure which approach HSBC took in Mr ds case. However, Im satisfied that Mr d 
certainly believed that HSBC was advising him to buy the Plus account, so I have 
considered his complaint as an advised sale.
Mr d and HSBC have disagreed about many aspects of this case, but they have agreed that 
Mr d overdrew his account quite frequently. I understand that he did so with both the fee-free 
accounts and with his Plus accounts. The crux of his complaint is that hes told us that when 
HSBC sold him the second Plus account, it told him he could no longer have an overdraft if 
he didnt buy the Plus account. Hes said that HSBC told him he would have to have a 
packaged current account otherwise (he) would lose (his) overdraft facility and that he 
couldnt have an overdraft unless he accepted the monthly fee. As he wanted to continue 
to use an overdraft, he thinks that HSBC gave him no choice but to buy the Plus account. 
Hes told us that HSBC did not explain that the packaged account was optional.
HSBC has told us that it has never made its lending (including arranging overdrafts) 
conditional on a customer taking a specific type of account. I accept its comments about this. 
A banks willingness to lend money to a customer usually depends on things such as the 
customers income and expenditure and existing debt, not the type of account the customer 
holds. Similarly, HSBC was not withdrawing fee-free accounts in 2009. It continued to offer 
them, as did several other banks. Mr d has held such an account twice and packaged 
accounts have always been optional. So, I find it unlikely that HSBC would have told him the 
opposite.
However, in 2009, HSBC charged lower interest rates on overdrafts to customers with Plus 
accounts than it usually offered to customers with fee-free accounts. It may well have 
pointed this out to Mr d and told him that he could only have the lower rates if he bought the 
Plus account. This wouldnt have been the same as saying that Mr d had no option but to 
buy the Plus account. It would have been true and would have been a reasonable thing for 
HSBC to raise. So, I dont think that HSBC misled Mr d about the overdraft or denied him the 
choice to have a fee-free account. 
Turning now to whether HSBC behaved fairly in recommending the Plus account to Mr d.
As well as lower interest rates on overdrafts, the potential benefits of the Plus account in 
2009 included travel insurance, fee-free withdrawals from cash machines abroad and free 
use of a car breakdown service. I understand that Mr d travelled abroad, and HSBC has 
shown that he also used the car breakdown service on several occasions. So, as well as 
potentially saving money on an overdraft, I think Mr d had a potential need for some of the 
other benefits the Plus account offered. I think it was reasonable for HSBC to recommend it 
to him. 
There is no dispute that HSBC told Mr d about the fees for the Plus account. And I also think 
its highly likely that it told him about at least some of the benefits. Afterall, it was trying to 
sell the Plus account to Mr d, and it was in its own interest to tell him what he could get in 
return for his money. Indeed, as Mr d used the car breakdown service, HSBC must have told 
him about it.
So, in summary, although HSBC may not have got everything right for Mr d when it sold him 
the Plus account, Im satisfied that it gave him a choice and I dont think it misled him about 
the overdraft. I think it made a reasonable recommendation and told him about the accounts costs and at least some of its benefits. I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to 
Mr d. 
While Mr d held the Plus account, HSBC changed the way the account worked and changed 
its name to an Advance account. It was allowed to make these changes provided it told 
customers what was happening and gave them reasonable choices. It usually did this by 
letter. 
Mr d has told us that HSBC never made him aware of these changes. However, HSBC has 
told us that it sent the letters to all its customers with Plus accounts and I see no reason why 
it would have excluded Mr d. So, I believe it behaved reasonably towards him when it 
changed him from a Plus account to an Advance account.
Mr d has also mentioned that on several occasion he wrote to HSBC with questions about 
his account and the possibility of changing it, but HSBC didnt reply. He hasnt told us a great 
deal about these letters, what he said in them or when he sent them; so, I havent 
considered them within this decision. If Mr d believes HSBC did not respond to them fairly, 
then he is free to raise his concerns with HSBC if he so wishes. However, I cannot advise 
him what to do or suggest what the outcome of any complaint may be. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr ds complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr d to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman