DRN-4274580
The complaint
Mr C says that Vanquis Bank Limited, who Ill call Vanquis, were unreasonable to reject a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
If the garage (Ill call them S) Mr C complains about didnt do what they were supposed to 
do, or if they didnt complete the work with reasonable care and skill, I may think they had 
breached their contract with Mr C and, in those circumstances, I may think Vanquis had 
been unreasonable to reject the claim.
Im not persuaded that Vanquis had enough evidence to demonstrate that there had been a 
breach of contract here, so I dont think theyve been unreasonable.
Mr C says that S didnt replace the parts that they were supposed to have replaced but I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence of that. The report from the third party garage (who Ill 
call J) who Mr C consulted with in January 2023, says that the strainer that had been 
replaced was blocked, but I cant see that it suggests it hadnt been replaced. The report 
also says there is play in the oil pump and drive. S say that the drive was replaced in 
September 2022, so Ive thought about whether that suggests it wasnt replaced. I dont think 
Vanquis had enough information to suggest that was the case. Mr C had driven a little over 
8,000 miles in the car since S say they replaced the drive, and I dont think they were given 
sufficient information to suggest that wear hadnt been generated since the initial repair. S 
had also explained that they had the receipts for the parts they fitted.
I think the evidence suggests that S did the work that was required of them in September 
2022, and Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest they were asked, nor needed to do 
anything different. On that basis I dont think Vanquis have been unreasonable and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman