DRN-2177298
The complaint
Ms P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed her account and registered her 
details with CIFAS the UKs fraud alert service. This made it difficult to open another 
account. She wants the CIFAS marker removed. 
What happened
Ms P had two accounts with NatWest a current account and a deposit account.
On 4 July 2019 a credit for £4,520 was received into Miss Ps account. This was reported as 
fraudulent by the sending bank on 8 July 2019.
As a result, NatWest sent Ms P a notice of immediate account closure on 10 July 2019. They 
also recorded a CIFAS marker against Ms P on 9 July 2019.
Ms P has told us she visited her branch on 17 July 2019, because she couldnt access a 
benefit payment she was expecting. A statement was produced for her in branch and she 
reported some transactions as not recognised by her. She also said that the address 
NatWest had sent the statements and closure letter to was not one she recognised.
Miss P has told us that a number of fraudulent transactions were made on her account from 
17 June 2019 to September 2019.
I wont list each disputed transaction here as both Ms P and the bank are aware of the 
transactions in dispute.
The account was closed on 3 September 2019. Ms P withdrew the balance on her account 
which was her benefits payment on 23 August 2019.
Ms P has told us that at the time of the disputed transactions she was living in care with five 
others. Ms P has said she doesnt recall losing her phone or her card around this time. She 
has said she has a record of her phone and debit card PIN written down but no written 
record of online banking details. Ms P said her laptop was in her room and although 
password protected, she recorded the password in the same notebook with her other PINs.
Ms P complained to NatWest on 18 February 2020.
NatWest said they were unable to uphold the complaint regarding the account closure, they 
were relying on the terms and conditions of the account. They also said that because the 
account was closed for suspected fraudulent activity, markers could be placed on the 
account. NatWest declined to reopen the account or to remove the marker.
Unhappy with their response Ms P complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said NatWest had acted fairly when 
they closed the account and recorded information with CIFAS. He thought it likely Ms P 
carried out or consented to the fraudulent activity on her account. He thought Ms P must 
have known of the fraudulent activity a long time before she reported it because the device 
used to carry out genuine transactions was also used to log in to the account whilst the 
fraudulent transactions were carried out. He couldnt see how Ms Ps online banking details 
had been compromised. And some of the disputed transactions had been carried out by 
online banking.
Ms P disagreed with the view she said: 
other people had access to her online banking. 
She never said that her card had ever been returned.
The reason she took so long reporting the issues was because of personal problems 
she had regarding housing.
Her phone was never stolen.
Ms P spoke to the investigator and suggested a number of ways in which the account details 
could have been compromised. She also said that as the situation had happened a long time 
ago, she couldnt remember exactly what had happened.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the Investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
CIFAS marker
NatWest said it applied the CIFAS marker because the funds received into the account were 
fraudulent.
So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it 
had and the investigation it carried out and what the rules say about applying such markers. 
CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS, which at that time was that NatWest needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other relevant law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases of fraud, rather than 
mere suspicion. In addition, CIFAS guidance set out businesses are expected to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.
There has been some discrepancy in the details Ms P has given to us regarding whether her 
card was taken and replaced or taken and never replaced. Also whether her on line banking 
security details could have been compromised or not. She has said that all this happened a 
long time ago and therefore its not possible for her to recall all these specific details.
We first spoke to Ms P a year after the disputed transactions so I can accept that her 
recollection was hazy. She told us she didnt think shed lost her card. During the 
conversation Ms P said there was no written record of her PIN, she then remembered her 
PIN for her card and her phone were both written down in a notebook which was kept in a box under or inside a bed. She confirmed her online banking details were not recorded in the 
notebook but her password for her laptop was also written in that notebook.
Ms P has said that due to her disability she is not able to travel in the day time, so she 
confirmed she hadnt been to south or east London where some of the transactions took 
place.
Ms P has said because she has been in care many people had access to her room and her 
possessions. She told us someone who had been in her room must have got access to her 
details.
Having reviewed Ms Ps account of events and the evidence NatWest have provided, Im 
satisfied NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded on her file. In 
coming to this view Ive taken into account the following reasons:
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen from NatWest that fraudulent funds were 
received into Ms Ps account. I have seen that Ms P carried out a genuine transfer on 
20 June 2019 into her other current account with bank M. I find it implausible that she 
didnt see the disputed transactions that had been carried out on her account on the 
17 June 2019.That same trusted device was then used to log in on 2 July 2019. So, I 
think Ms P would have been able to see the disputed transactions on 29 June 2019. 
When Ms P logged in with the same genuine device on 4 July 2019, she would have 
become aware of the credit for £4,520. So, I think the technical evidence Ive seen 
suggests that Ms P logged in at least three times with a trusted device so must have 
known of the fraudulent activity taking place on her account and didnt report it until 
much later.
The online log in history shows that one person only wouldnt have been able to carry 
out all the disputed activity. More than one person had access to Ms Ps details as 
there are log ins from IP addresses in south London and Cambridge within a minute 
of each other. I accept that Ms P has said that because of her disability she wouldnt 
be able to travel to all these locations, but she could have authorised others to use 
the account.
Some of the disputed transactions were carried out by on line log in. Ms P has said 
that these log in details werent recorded anywhere so the only plausible explanation 
is she must have carried out the transactions herself or provided her on line log in 
details to someone else. 
The evidence suggests there has been no PIN or password changes. The cards 
havent been reported as lost or stolen. There are no failed PIN attempts. No one but 
Ms P had access to all the information needed to carry out the transactions and 
therefore it seems likely that Ms P provided that information to third parties who 
carried out the transactions.  I accept that Ms P has said that many people had 
access to her room and her things, but its implausible that a fraudster could have got 
hold of her bank card, PIN, online bank details and phone and lap top in order to 
carry out the transactions without her knowledge.
Ms P has said that someone changed the address on her bank without her knowledge and 
thats the reason she wasnt getting her statements or the closure letter. I can see what Miss 
P is saying about her address being changed but I cant see how this explains how a 
fraudster would have got access to her PIN, account details and phone and lap top to carry 
out the disputed transactions.I accept that Ms Ps living arrangements were difficult at this time, but, based on the 
evidence, I think its more likely than not that Ms P was aware that fraudulent funds were 
coming into her account. Looking at the technical evidence the most plausible explanation is 
that Ms P made the transactions herself or authorised someone to do them as I dont think 
its plausible for a fraudster to have obtained Ms Ps bank card, PIN, mobile phone and 
online banking information without her knowledge and consent. 
Account closure
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
NatWest has relied on the terms of the account to close it. NatWest can close an account 
with immediate effect in certain circumstances. I have reviewed the terms of the account and 
the evidence and I am satisfied that NatWest closed the accounts in line with the account 
terms. And acted fairly in doing so. 
I can see that NatWest wrote to Ms P on 10 July 2019 and let her know it was closing her 
account with immediate effect. Ms P has said that she didnt receive the letter as the address 
NatWest held for her was not one she recognised. Ive considered if this has disadvantaged 
Ms P but since the closure was immediate, I dont think finding out when she did placed her 
at a disadvantage. 
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say NatWest has acted unreasonably 
and treated Ms P unfairly when it closed her accounts and registered her details with CIFAS. 
So, I am not going to ask them to remove the CIFAS marker.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman