DRN-2733660
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund several transactions made using his 
debit card, that Mr R says he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 6 June 2020 between 02:50am and 05:11am there were eight transactions made using 
Mr Rs debit card, held with Revolut. The transactions took place in Romania where Mr R 
was living. The transactions totalled 949 RON (Romanian Lei) including fees. This equates 
to around £170, based on todays general exchange rate.
Mr R has explained he woke up on the morning of 6 June 2020 and realised his wallet and 
passport were missing. 
Mr R has explained that he suffers from PTSD and panic attacks for which he takes 
medication. As a result, Mr R explained that his memory is not so good, and it affects his day 
to day life as he is unable to remember things. Because of this, Mr R within his wallet, kept a 
piece of paper containing personal details and this included his PIN for his Revolut card. 
Mr R says he had had an argument with his now ex-partner on the evening before 
6 June 2020 and had gone to sleep. Mr R believes he had left his wallet in his bedside draw. 
Mr R says his ex-partner had taken his wallet and passport and had also left him a note 
saying bye.
Mr R checked his Revolut account and saw there were multiple transactions that he hadnt 
authorised. Mr R says it looked like his partner had a night out at his expense. Mr R logged 
the matter with the Romanian Police authorities but didnt receive any paperwork.
Mr R contacted Revolut through its online messaging service on 6 June 2020 at 10:40am 
explaining what had happened, to cancel / stop the card and to report the transactions he 
hadnt authorised. 
Mr R asked Revolut for the transactions to be refunded. Revolut initially explained that it 
couldnt see any signs of an account takeover and that his account had only been accessed 
by his device. Revolut said Mr R should reach out to his partner and try and resolve the 
matter.
Mr R explained that he never said his account had been taken over and that his wallet with 
his bank card had been taken and used without his permission. Mr R pointed to the 
transactions in dispute between 02:50am and 05:11am which were for restaurants and an 
ATM machine.
Revolut then explained that it wouldnt refund Mr R if he had intentionally or carelessly failed 
to keep his security details or Revolut card safe.
Mr R said that he hadnt given his PIN to his ex-partner and that she most likely knew his 
PIN as she had been his partner.
On 23 June 2020 Revolut issued its final response letter to Mr R. It explained that while the 
transactions were performed without Mr Rs permission, his card as well as the security 
details were in the possession of his ex-partner. So it considered as Mr R had failed to keep 
his PIN safe in line with the terms and conditions of the account, he was liable for the 
disputed transactions.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr R referred the matter to our service. 
While the complaint was with our service, Revolut offered Mr R three months use of its 
Premium service (which equates to £20.97). This was to recognise the inconvenience and 
waiting times Mr R had experienced. Mr R rejected this offer.
One of our investigators then looked into the complaint and upheld it. They were satisfied 
that Mr R hadnt consented to or authorised the transactions. Our investigator also thought 
that it was more likely than not that Mr Rs ex-partner, given they were partners, was aware 
of Mr Rs PIN in any event and wouldnt have needed the written details kept in Mr Rs wallet 
to make the transactions. So they didnt consider the transactions had occurred as a result of 
Mr R being grossly negligent or failing with intent to comply with the terms and conditions of 
the account. 
Our investigator recommended Revolut refund to Mr R the transactions and the associated 
fees. They also considered Revoluts service had been poor when Mr R contacted Revolut 
about the transactions. Because of this they considered Revolut should pay to Mr R an 
additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Revolut responded disagreeing with the investigators opinion. It agreed that the transactions 
were authenticated through the card and PIN and that they were also not authorised by Mr R 
as the card had been stolen by Mr Rs partner at the time.
Revolut said it wasnt aware Mr R had trouble with his memory and was required to write 
things down. It explained that through the mobile application it offers a number of additional 
features which Mr R could have used. It pointed to the view PIN facility, which meant a 
customer didnt need to write their PIN down; a location-based security option which if 
activated would mean a card payment would fail if it takes place a certain distance from the 
account holders phone / device and a disable ATM withdrawal feature  meaning if a card 
was stolen it couldnt be used for ATM withdrawals.
Revolut considered Mr R hadnt taken steps to ensure the safety of his card and PIN and it 
remained of the opinion that Mr R should be held liable for the disputed transactions. Revolut 
considered its offer of £20.97 was a fair way to resolve things.
Our investigator then contacted Mr R about the additional security features, with Mr R 
explaining that he wasnt aware of them. Mr R kept in contact with the investigator and 
explained that he had managed to find the features and that some were useful and which he 
would use going forward. Mr R explained he tried the location-based feature, leaving his 
phone at home  but found he was still able to use his card up to 15-20 miles away  so 
didnt think it was very useful.
The investigator then responded to Revolut to say while he acknowledged there were 
additional security features it didnt change his opinion that Mr R, by not using them, had 
acted with gross negligence. They remained of the opinion that the complaint should be 
upheld, and that Mr R simply wouldnt have realised that his partner would steal his wallet 
and card and knowing his PIN, use the card without his permission.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I can see that our investigator within their view 
incorrectly recorded the disputed transactions as taking place on 6 July 2020 instead of 
6 June 2020. I am aware that both parties know the date the disputed transactions took 
place  so I wanted to take this opportunity to clarify the error / oversight and confirm the 
date of the disputed transactions as 6 June 2020. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have to reach my findings on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) says they havent authorised an executed payment  the payment service 
provider (in this case Revolut) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
Importantly, if it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt 
authorised. PSR 2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the 
amount of an unauthorised transaction to the payer (customer) unless the payer has with 
intent or gross negligence failed to protect or keep safe their security details in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account (these are Regulations 72 and 77(3) of PSR 
2017).
In this case, it is not in dispute that the payments were authenticated  as Mr Rs card and 
PIN was used. Revolut also accept that Mr R didnt carry out / consent to the disputed 
transactions, but it argues Mr R has failed to comply with obligations under the accounts 
terms and conditions and under PSR 2017  and acted with gross negligence by writing his 
PIN down.
So the matter at hand for me to consider is whether Mr R, by keeping security details on a 
piece of paper in his wallet, meant under PSR 2017 that he failed with gross negligence to 
comply with the terms and conditions of his account which required him to protect his 
security details.
Our service interprets gross negligence as a very significant degree of carelessness which 
goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence. So writing a PIN down in a non-disguisable 
format and keeping it within a wallet or purse where the card is also stored is more often 
than not considered gross negligence. However I am mindful that Mr Rs memory problem 
was the reason he wrote down various security details as it assisted him on a day to day 
basis. And I do also acknowledge that Revolut werent made aware of Mr Rs condition and 
that had it been then it could have made Mr R aware of the various additional security 
features available. But for me, what is important, are the circumstances of this particular case. And that is that 
Mr Rs partner at the time  after an argument  decided to leave Mr R, stealing his wallet 
and passport in the process and then used his card without his consent. 
Importantly, in this case, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not the now ex-partner would 
have known Mr Rs PIN simply from the duration they had been together on a daily basis. 
Mr R has said that his ex-partner would stand next to him at an ATM or in shops. She was 
his partner, and it is a normal everyday occurrence for such things to happen. So there was 
more than enough opportunity for the ex-partner, over time, to become aware of Mr Rs PIN. 
So while Mr R had the security details written down due to his memory problems, I dont 
think it is fair or reasonable for Revolut to say that in this case Mr R has acted with gross 
negligence in not complying with the terms and conditions of the account requiring him to 
keep his details secure. This is a case where I consider Mr Rs PIN was more likely than not 
already known by Mr Rs partner at the time, with Mr R not knowing that he would then be a 
victim of the theft of his wallet, card and passport by his partner later on down the line. Had 
Mr R not written down any security details, I am satisfied the theft of the card and the 
subsequent usage of it would have still occurred due to the unfortunate circumstances of the 
acrimonious split between Mr R and his partner  from which Mr R did not expect his ex-
partner to take the actions she did.
So, after taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that Mr R didnt consent to the 
transactions. And it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Revolut to refuse a refund of the 
transactions under the grounds that Mr R had acted with gross negligence by not keeping 
his security details secure when, in this situation, Mr R was taken advantage of by his then 
partner stealing his card and using it, as they were already aware of the PIN, without Mr Rs 
consent.
Having looked at the service Mr R received when he contacted Revolut  it falls short of 
what I would expect. Mr R clearly set out that his card had been stolen by his partner. 
Revolut first investigated whether the account had been taken over  and considered it 
hadnt and that Mr R should reach out to his partner and try and resolve the matter. So I can 
understand why Mr R feels Revolut hadnt listened to him. 
There was also seemingly unnecessary delays and confusion on Revoluts part in getting to 
the heart of what had happened and providing its stance on the matter to Mr R. This no 
doubt caused Mr R unnecessary inconvenience. So I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that Revolut should award Mr R an additional £100 as compensation for 
the level of service it provided.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Revolut. 
I now direct Revolut Ltd to:refund the amount of the unauthorised payment transactions along with the 
associated fees where applicable.
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date of the loss to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
Pay £100 compensation to Mr R for the material distress and inconvenience he 
experienced.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut to take off tax from this interest. Revolut must give Mr R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Revolut Ltd should calculate and pay compensation as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman