DRN-3457848
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) replaced his phone with a 
different model and then declined his claim for theft.
What happened
Mr A had mobile phone insurance through his bank as part of a paid for product. He made a 
claim under his policy for accidental damage to his phone (A20). AGI accepted the claim. Mr 
A paid the £50 excess and sent his phone to AGI following its instructions.
AGI deemed the phone beyond economic repair and sent Mr A a replacement phone. 
However, Mr A complained that AGI replaced it with an inferior model (A3). AGI looked into 
his complaint and told Mr A that it had received an A3 from him so that was what it replaced 
his phone with.
Mr A sent a photo of the parcel hed left with the courier and provided tracking details. AGI 
confirmed it received the parcel, but its photos of the contents showed a different phone to 
that reported as damaged by Mr A.
Mr A thought his phone mustve been stolen and he made a further claim under the policy for 
theft. AGI declined his claim because hed reached the limit of his allowed annual claims.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She said, on balance, it was likely that AGI 
received the A3 phone, so she thought it had dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the 
terms of the policy. Our investigator also said AGI had fairly declined Mr As theft claim 
because hed reached the limit of claims under his policy.
Mr A disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
My role is not to conclude which phone Mr A packaged or whether it was stolen. My role is to 
look at how AGI handled the claims and decide whether it acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner, in line with the policy terms.
Repair claim
Theres no dispute around the delivery tracking numbers, day of receipt or that the claim was 
valid. The issue is relatively simple: Mr A said he sent one phone, but AGI said it received a 
different phone. Looking at the evidence, the claim form which showed the phones unique 
serial number (IMEI) matches that provided by Mr A. But as the claim form was completed 
when Mr A first reported his loss, and before he sent his phone to AGI, Im satisfied the 
information recorded is simply that which he provided rather than confirmation that AGI 
received the phone.
Ive looked at the photo Mr A sent of the parcel he delivered to the courier company. Theres 
no doubt that Mr A sent a parcel because he tracked delivery and AGI confirmed receipt. 
The dispute, here, is what the contents were. Mr As photo only shows a plain, labelled, 
cardboard box. There is no evidence of the contents.
AGIs photos are those taken on receipt of the parcel and of the contents when opened. The 
photos show that AGI received a damaged A3 phone, and it replaced the phone with another 
A3 when it deemed the phone beyond economic repair.
Given that AGIs photos show receipt of the A3 model, its difficult to conclude anything other 
than thats what it received. I realise this implies some sort of wrongdoing on Mr As part, but 
thats not my intention. My decision must be based on the evidence and what is likely to 
have happened. And the evidence tells me that its more likely than not that AGI received an 
A3 model.
 
The policy says:
What you are not covered for
Mobile phones given to another party to provide a service for you
If you give your mobile phone to a business or individual so that they can provide a 
service for you, they are solely responsible for the safety of your mobile phone and are 
not covered under the terms of this policy.
You must therefore be satisfied that your mobile phone is suitably covered for any loss, 
theft or damage that may occur while in their care. For example when using a:
delivery service such as the Royal Mail or a postal or courier service (this includes 
when sending the device to us)
mobile phone customisation service
mobile phone repair service (other than our repair centre).
In line with the policy, Mr A had a greater responsibility to ensure that the phone he 
entrusted to the delivery service was adequately covered for theft. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably hold AGI responsible for receipt of the wrong phone.
Replacement phone
AGI replaced Mr As phone with one of the same model. I dont think Mr As complaint is 
about whether AGI did so in line with the terms and conditions. His dispute is that it 
shouldve replaced his phone with the model he said he sent.
Ive thought about the different IMEI numbers and Mr As comment that he wouldnt have 
paid a £50 excess to have a £20 phone repaired. I agree it seems most unlikely but, as Ive 
said, the evidence suggests AGI received the A3 model, regardless of its worth or the IMEI 
Mr A provided.  
On balance, Im satisfied that AGI replaced the phone it received on a like-for-like basis, in 
line with the terms of the policy. While unfortunate for Mr A, I see no reason to ask AGI to 
replace the A3 phone it received with the A20 model Mr A said he sent.
Theft claimMr A, understandably, raised another claim under his policy for theft of the mobile phone he 
said he sent for repair. AGI declined his claim because hed reached the limit of claims in the 
policy year.
The policy says:
What you are not covered for
More than 4 accepted claims in any 12 months
We insure your mobile phone for up to 4 accepted claims in any 12 month period. If you 
make 4 accepted claims in any 12 month period, your insurance will continue but you will 
not be able to make claims for any further incidents that happen before the anniversary of 
the first claim.
Looking at the claims history, I see Mr A did make four claims. Therefore, Im satisfied that 
AGI declined his claim for theft fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
In summary, I can understand that Mr A must be frustrated by this matter, but I havent seen 
any evidence that AGI did anything wrong. I wont be asking AGI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman