DRN-4081143
The complaint
Ms R and Mr W have complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admirals) 
decision to decline a claim they made on their building insurance policy for the theft of their 
contents while they were being moved. Ms R and Mr W are represented in their complaint by 
Mr M.
What happened
On 28 July 2021, Ms R and Mr W were in the process of moving to a new house when the 
removal van broke down and had to be returned to the depot by the removal company. The 
next day, Ms R and Mr W found that their contents had been stolen and they contacted 
Admiral to notify it of the theft. 
In September 2021, Ms R and Mr W complained to Admiral about the way their claim had 
been handled. They received Admirals final response letter on 10 November 2022, not 
upholding their complaint. In that letter Admiral said it understood that Ms R and Mr W were 
dissatisfied because it does not cover theft under the household removal and temporary 
storage cover part of the policy. However, as the policy didnt provide that cover, their claim 
had been correctly declined. Admiral offered Ms R and Mr W £25 for the delay in providing 
them with a final response letter.
Unhappy with Admirals response to their complaint, Ms R and Mr W referred it to this 
service, via their representative, Mr M. Our investigator looked into what had happened and 
issued a view not upholding the complaint. She explained that the theft Ms R and Mr W had 
suffered wasnt covered by the policy, so their claim had been fairly declined.
Mr M, their representative, disagreed. He said that as theft wasnt specifically excluded, the 
policy reasonably provided cover for Ms R and Mr Ws loss so the claim should be paid. 
Ms R and Mr W requested an ombudsmans decision on their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same condition as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I will explain why.
Some insurance policies cover all-risks. This means that the policy covers anything that 
might happen to the property insured (in this case, the contents). However, Ms R and Mr Ws 
policy covers a number of listed, specific insured events, commonly referred to as insured 
perils. It is only these specific events, or perils that are detailed in the policy terms that are 
covered, and within those specific events, there are also exclusions. 
So, to decide whether Admiral has fairly declined Ms R and Mr Ws claim I first need to be 
satisfied that an insured event or peril specifically listed in the terms and conditions, has 
occurred which will be covered by the policy. If there is, then the insurer needs to deal with 
the claim unless there is an exclusion which then means that the insured event isnt covered. 
In this case, the event claimed for is the theft of the contents while in the possession of the 
removal company. However, that isnt a peril that is covered by the policy. I therefore dont 
need to go on to consider whether any exclusion applies, as I will next explain.
In section 2, under the heading Household removal and temporary storage the policy says 
that cover is provided for: accidental damage to contents while they are being moved, by a 
professional removals company to your new home or to temporary storage or a furniture 
storage unit, including while being stored there for up to seven days.
Ms R and Mr Ws contents were not accidentally damaged; they were stolen. The policy 
does not provide cover for contents which are stolen while they are being moved. Therefore, 
the cover provided by the policy does not engage in the circumstances Ms R and Mr W have 
suffered. Admiral has therefore declined their claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
I also think that Admirals decision to decline Ms R and Mr Ws claim is fair in the 
circumstances. I say this because it is a commercial matter for an insurer as to what risks 
they chose to cover. When an insurer agrees to provide cover for specific events, it will 
assess the risk and decide what an appropriate premium, and/or excess should be payable 
in connection with that risk. It will then offer the cover to the insured party to be accepted or 
rejected on that basis. If a prospective insured party isnt happy with the terms offered, they 
are free to seek cover elsewhere.
Ms R and Mr W took out insurance that would only cover their contents if they were 
accidentally damaged when in the possession of a removal company, not stolen. Therefore, 
Admiral havent done anything wrong in the way theyve dealt with the claim and I wont be 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman