DRN-2930115
The complaint
Mr L has complained Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, is 
holding him liable for the payment remaining from a hire purchase agreement which he 
never took out.
What happened
In April 2019 a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car Finance was taken out for a car in 
Mr Ls name. A car was part-exchanged and credit for £15,585 was taken out. Two initial 
direct debit payments were taken from Mr Ls current account.
In July 2019 Mr L contacted Oodle to say that hed never taken out the credit agreement and 
he was a victim of fraud (carried out by his son). Late that month the car was impounded as 
it was being driven by Mr Ls son (who Ill call Mr L2) without insurance.
Over the next few months Mr L was in regular contact with Oodle. They initially confirmed 
Mr L had been a victim of fraud. They then said otherwise. They believed the evidence from 
the dealer indicated Mr L was present when the car was bought. The car was repossessed 
and the agreement terminated in October 2019. Oodle continued to ask Mr L to pay what 
was left owing on the agreement.
Mr L was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator initially believed the evidence showed Mr L hadnt been in the dealership.  
He asked Oodle to stop asking Mr L for any repayment as well as giving him £300 in 
compensation. Oodle disagreed and provided further evidence to show what the dealer had 
been reviewing when selling the car to Mr L.
A further investigator took over the complaint. She believed it was most likely Mr L had been 
at the dealers originally. Therefore overall he had taken out the agreement.
Mr L objected vociferously to this outcome. This ran contrary to his testimony over the last 
couple of years as he denied ever being at the dealers. He pointed out again to the physical 
differences between himself and Mr L2.
Mr Ls complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar outcome to our second investigator. Ill explain why.
The first thing to say is that Ive read Mr Ls powerful testimony about his relationship with 
Mr L2 and his own mental health issues. Ive certainly taken these aspects into my 
consideration. 
Ive also reviewed the two views dated 27 July 2020 and 15 July 2021. These contained a 
great deal of detail about what happened. I dont intend to repeat all this detail but I will refer 
to those aspects that impact the decision Im making.
Theres no dispute that the email address and mobile phone numbers originally provided to 
the dealership arent those that Mr L provided to us. From what Ive seen they may well have 
belonged to Mr L2. That does suggest that the hire purchase agreement was emailed to 
Mr L2 and most likely signed by him.
But I have to balance that aspect with what Id expect to have happened at the dealership. I 
know Mr L is adamant that he was never there. But Ive seen the dealership was able to view 
his driving license (the original rather than a copy I believe) and would have been obliged to 
match this with the person in front of them agreeing to purchase a car.
I can also see that a car  subject to credit financing in Mr Ls name  was traded in. I cant 
easily see any of this being done without Mr L being present. I also know the vehicle 
registration for the new car was completed in Mr Ls name.
I know its not impossible for dealerships to behave in ways that dont match their obligations 
but Id have thought the risk of Mr L spotting an agreement had been taken out fraudulently 
(if hed never been at the dealership) too high a risk for this to be done.
Theres been a lot of reliance by Oodle on the fact that Mr L admitted hed previously taken 
out a credit agreement on a car for his son. They seem to suggest this means that its 
inevitable that this agreement was also taken out  by him deliberately whilst allowing Mr L2 
to take ownership of the car. I dont actually agree with this interpretation as a general thesis. 
However I do believe Mr L took out the agreement in this case.
Im aware Mr L has a very difficult relationship with Mr L2. I wouldnt be surprised if there 
was some emotional abuse or even intimidation involved. However taking that into account, 
Mr L has told us Mr L2 repaid him in cash for the first two direct debits he paid for this 
agreement. I can see the original agreement was taken out at a very difficult time for Mr L. 
But overall I believe Mr L was present and aware that the agreement was being taken out in 
his name, even though he wasnt expecting to ever use the car.
I know Mr L will be distressed by this decision as hes being expected to repay what is owed 
on the credit agreement. Im sure Oodle will be aware of their obligations to ensure any 
repayment agreement is affordable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ls complaint against Oodle 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman