DRN-3568645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about an error in the information they were provided with about 
their mortgage endowment policy with HSBC UK Bank Plc. They have sad this error led 
them to surrender their policy early and give money to their children, which they wouldnt 
have otherwise done.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R arranged an endowment policy to protect and repay their mortgage of slightly 
over £51,000 in 1997. The policy had a term of 25 year and was due to mature in the 
summer of 2022. 
From 2003 onward the annual updates HSBC sent to Mr and Mrs R told them that the policy 
was unlikely to reach its target value of c.£51,000. As such, Mr and Mrs R changed to a 
repayment mortgage and kept the endowment policy as an investment. They have told us 
that they planned to use the maturity value to help buy a holiday home. 
In early 2021 Mr and Mrs R checked online what the value of the policy was. HSBCs 
internet banking system showed the policy as having a value of over £90,000. They decided 
to cash the policy in. 
The surrender of the policy was processed, and HSBC paid them just over £45,000. This 
was the correct surrender value for the policy. Mr and Mrs R complained.
HSBC upheld Mr and Mrs Rs complaint in part. It acknowledged that there had been an 
error in the internet banking system which showed the number of units and their value at 
double the actual position. It apologised for the error, however, confirmed that it had paid out 
the correct value of the policy when it was surrendered. HSBC highlighted that the review 
letters sent to Mr and Mrs R from 2003 had told them that the policy was highly unlikely to 
reach its target value of c.£51,000. The last of these had been sent less than six months 
before the policy was surrendered. HSBC offered Mr and Mrs R £250 compensation for its 
error.
Further correspondence was exchanged between HSBC and Mr and Mrs R. HSBC accepted 
that Mr and Mrs R may not have surrendered the policy when they did, had the error not 
occurred. It went on to explain that, given the fund the policy was primarily invested in at that 
point had a negative return when the charges were taken into account (which they had been 
told about), it was satisfied that Mr and Mrs R hadnt suffered a loss. It also said that if either 
Mr or Mrs R had died or suffered a critical illness before the maturity date, it would consider 
a claim under the cover that had been provided by the policy.
Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied with HSBCs position and referred their complaint to this 
service. They told us that due to the amount they were expecting to receive from the 
endowment policy, they decided to give their children a share of the money. They gave each 
of their two children £5,000. They told us that had the value of the endowment not been what 
it was, they dont believe that they would have done this.
HSBC confirmed that if the policy had remained in force until maturity, Mr and Mrs R would 
have paid almost £2,000 in additional premiums to the policy. Charges for the management 
of the policy and the protection benefits would have continued to be deducted. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He was persuaded that Mr and Mrs R 
had made the gifts to their children on reliance of the incorrect policy surrender value. As 
such, he asked HSBC to reimburse Mr and Mrs R this money. HSBC didnt agree. It 
highlighted that less than six months before the surrender it had told Mr and Mrs R that the 
policy wasnt even going to reach its target value of c.£51,000. The suggested maturity value 
was less than half a percent increase in value to that which Mr and Mrs R had been given 
the previous year. As such, HSBC thought they should have been aware that the c£90,000 
valuation was a mistake. HSBC also highlighted that the payment made to the children was 
labelled as grandad and was paid before the surrender value was received, which implied it 
was not related to the expected policy surrender value.
Mr and Mrs R were asked about the payments in light of HSBCs comments. They confirmed 
that they only paid the money to their children because of the amount of the expected 
surrender value from the endowment policy. They explained that they used a payment 
reference of grandad, from whom they had recently received an inheritance, in the hope 
that it would aid their children in their grieving process and encourage them to use the 
money responsibly.
Having considered the additional submissions from the parties, our investigator proposed to 
uphold the complaint in part. He concluded that the evidence suggested that Mr and Mrs R 
only surrendered the policy when they did because of HSBCs error. However, given the 
information available about the policy, he concluded that it was likely that they hadnt 
suffered a loss by surrendering when they did. The investigator confirmed that Mr and Mrs R 
had received the amount from the policy they were entitled to and he wouldnt be asking 
HSBC to pay the difference between that amount and the incorrectly quoted surrender value.
However, in relation to the payments Mr and Mrs R made to their children, the investigator 
was persuaded that more had been paid than otherwise would have been due to HSBCs 
error. He recommended that HSBC reimburse Mr and Mrs R £5,000, representing half of the 
amount paid to each child, plus interest for the loss of use of the money. In addition, he 
recommended that HSBC increase the compensation amount to £500.
Mr and Mrs R accepted the investigators conclusions. They said that they had originally 
been intending to give their children £1,000 each from the inheritance, but they increased 
that to £5,000 based on the expected pay-out from the endowment policy. However, they 
accepted that it couldnt be proved what their intentions were, so they accepted the 
investigators suggestion.
HSBC didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It reiterated that it would have been 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs R to have known there was something wrong with the value 
contained on the internet. It also highlighted that it was Mr and Mrs Rs decision to pay their 
children money from the inheritance. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 June 2022, which set out my conclusions and the 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.It is not clear whether Mr and Mrs R checked the value of their policy via internet banking on 
a regular basis or whether they relied on the information HSBC sent them by post. However, 
they have said that the value they saw for the policy in early 2021 was unexpected. This 
would seem a reasonable reaction, given that they had been told for the previous 18 years 
that the policy was unlikely to even reach its target value of c£51,000. The £90,000 would 
also have been significantly higher than even the highest projected return that would have 
been illustrated before they took out the policy. So I can only conclude that Mr and Mrs R 
should reasonably have thought that the value they were seeing wasnt right. This is 
supported by the fact that they checked the value for a second time, to check it was still as 
high as it had been. 
Mr and Mrs R understandably decided to surrender the policy at this point, as most would, 
as the value was significantly more than theyd been expecting from the policy. It is clear that 
there was a problem with HSBCs systems and Mr and Mrs R should receive some 
compensation for that. However, that would not be the difference between the actual 
surrender value and the incorrect figure they were given. This is because when awarding 
redress this service aims to place a complainant in the same position as they would have 
been in, but for the mistake that had been made. 
In this case, had HSBC not provided an incorrect value, it seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs R 
would have surrendered their policy early. Had the policy remained in place, they would 
have paid almost £2,000 in additional premiums and, as the fund the policy was invested in 
had an effective negative growth when charges were taken into account, it is likely that they 
would have lost out overall. Mr and Mrs R may have potentially suffered a loss had one of 
them died or suffered from a critical illness between the surrender and the maturity date, but 
HSBC has already said that it would have considered any claims, given the circumstances.  
As such, I cant find that Mr and Mrs R suffered a financial loss due to the early surrender of 
the policy.
I now turn to the matter of whether Mr and Mrs R suffered detriment from relying on the 
incorrect information. Having read their comments about this matter, I have interpreted them 
slightly differently from our investigator. I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs Rs comments 
contained in the complaint form and their email of 15 November 2021, in response to a 
query about the reference used on the transfers, say that they would not have made any 
payments to their children, but for the mistake by HSBC. While this changed following the 
investigator expressing his interpretation of their comments, we will typically rely on 
comments made without hindsight or influence when assessing a complaint. 
As such, in order to make an award in this respect, I need to be satisfied that, Mr and Mrs R 
only made the payments to their children they did, because of the error by HSBC. I would 
also need to be satisfied that when they realised the error, they attempted to rectify the 
situation by attempting to retrieve the money, but they were unable to do so. 
The only evidence on this issue is Mr and Mrs Rs submissions, the timing of the payment 
and the reference used. So it is entirely down to whether I think it is more likely than not that 
no payments would have been made, but for the error in the surrender value. I say that it has 
to be more likely than not, as if it is only just as likely, I wouldnt be able to uphold this part of 
the complaint.
The date of the transfers doesnt correlate with either the surrender being requested or the 
surrender value being received. It was after the first event, but before the second. So there is 
no direct link within the timings between the two events. 
The fact that the reference on the payments was grandad would also indicate that the 
money was being passed on from the inheritance that had recently been received, rather than the endowment surrender value. Given that it would not be unusual for inheritances to 
be shared in this way, this reference introduces the distinct possibility that these payments 
would always have been made, despite what Mr and Mrs R have said about the reference.
I have carefully considered the evidence, but I am not persuaded that it shows that it is more 
likely than not that the payments were only made because of the error on HSBCs part. So I 
dont uphold this part of the complaint and I dont consider that HSBC should make payment 
in this respect. 
I now turn to the matter of compensation for the effect the mistake had on Mr and Mrs R. 
While I think that Mr and Mrs R would have suspected the surrender value theyd seen on 
their internet banking wasnt right, it would have raised their expectations about the amount 
they would be receiving. While these expectations werent raised for any significant period, it 
would have been a considerable disappointment to receive only around half the amount they 
were hoping for. They have explained that the money from the policy was to go toward the 
purchase of a holiday home and the incorrect value led them to think theyd be able to 
progress their plans much earlier than previously believed. This would have added 
significantly to their disappointment. HSBC offered £250 for the administrative mistake and 
in many circumstances, I would agree that was enough. However, given the particular 
situation in this case, I agree with our investigator that the compensation for upset and 
inconvenience should be increased to £500.
HSBC confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and it had no further comments 
to add.
Mr and Mrs R said that they didnt have any further information to add. They said that they 
would respect the outcome of our investigation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any additional evidence or comment, my conclusions 
have remained the same.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs R £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman