DRN-3145845
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his account. And hasnt 
provided a satisfactory explanation. 
What happened
Mr F had two accounts with Barclays. A personal account and a business account.
On 30 December 2020, Barclays reviewed Mr Fs accounts. Whilst it conducted its review 
Barclays blocked his accounts. This meant he wasnt able to access any funds.
Following its review Barclays decided to close Mr Fs accounts immediately. On 1 January 
2021 it wrote to Mr F to let him know he needed to make alternative banking arrangements. 
The account was closed on 9 January 2021.
Mr F complained to Barclays. They said they hadnt done anything wrong as their terms 
allowed them to review the account. They were entitled to close the account. But they 
accepted that the accounts had been closed too hastily and offered Mr F £300 
compensation. They accepted Mr F would like to know the reasons for the closure, but they 
said they werent obliged to provide him with reasons.
Barclays reconsidered the decision to close the account and confirmed that Mr Fs account 
would remain closed. 
Mr F was unhappy with Barclays response, so he complained to our service.
He told us that he was concerned that £2,000 received into his account had been removed 
by Barclays.
One of our investigators reviewed the case, he contacted Barclays who offered to reinstate 
the account. They also agreed to write off Mr Fs overdraft of £525.56. Mr F agreed.
Barclays said they reinstated the account. But Mr F says he spent a long time trying to re 
install the app.
Barclays decided they wouldnt reinstate Mr Fs overdraft on his personal account as this 
had been based on his business turnover. Barclays didnt think the overdraft limit Mr F 
previously had reflected his true income and therefore were concerned it would be 
irresponsible to lend such amounts to Mr F.
Our investigator issued a view  he thought that although Barclays had made mistakes, they 
would have been entitled to close Mr Fs account with 60 days notice. Barclays had 
provided a total of £825.56 in compensation for their errors and he thought this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. The investigator didnt think Barclays had taken the £2,000 
grant that Mr F referred to and he agreed with Barclays regarding the overdraft on the 
personal account.
Mr F disagreed with the view. He thought the compensation wasnt enough for the amount of 
time it had taken to sort things out and the stress and anxiety having his accounts closed 
had caused him. He still was having difficulty with his online banking  he thought the 
overdraft should be reinstated in the same way the account had been. Mr F said he had to 
stop trading because he couldnt access an account. He also mentioned he had tried to open 
another business account, but this had been difficult during the lockdowns.
Our investigator said that because Mr F wasnt able to show hed been declined a business 
account elsewhere it wasnt possible for him to conclude that Mr F not being able to trade 
was the result of Barclays actions.
As there was no agreement the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Fs account.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation, place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, establish the purpose and 
nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also required to 
carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Barclays has said that 
Mr Fs account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
I agree that Barclays were entitled to review Mr Fs accounts, but they have admitted they 
were too hasty when they closed his accounts and agreed to reinstate his accounts.
Reasons for the closure
Whilst Mr F mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Barclays isnt required 
to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Barclays has done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr F this information  as much as hed like to know.
Overdraft facility
I appreciate that Mr F had an overdraft before his accounts were closed by Barclays. His 
accounts have been reinstated but his overdraft hasnt, and Mr F is unhappy with this.
Ive considered the information provided by Barclays and the reasons for them not 
reinstating the overdraft- namely that it was based on Mr Fs business income. Barclays 
were at liberty to withdraw the overdraft facility at any point and thats what theyve done. 
I appreciate Mr F must feel like his account hasnt been reinstated to what it was before 
closure but the withdrawing of the overdraft facility isnt prompted by the closure of the 
account and as I say Barclays couldve reviewed it at any point. Theyve done so now and 
have withdrawn it which they are entitled to do so I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
Withholding of Self Employment Income Support Scheme grant (SEISS grant)
Mr F was concerned when they closed his accounts Barclays had withheld £2,000, he had 
received from a SEISS grant. I have looked at the account statements and I can confirm that Mr F received a credit of 
£2,012 into his account for a SEISS grant in August 2020. However, this amount was spent 
from the account by the time the accounts were closed. So, Im satisfied that the money 
hasnt been withheld from Mr F. 
Issues with reopening the account.
Barclays agreed to reinstate Mr Fs accounts. However, Mr Fs said his accounts werent 
fully reinstated until 18 December 2021. Barclays have said that Mr Fs accounts were 
reinstated in June 2021. But have agreed Mr F did have issues accessing the mobile 
banking app- but was able to use the account using other means. Mr F has said because he 
was still experiencing difficulties it led him to decide to stop trading. He has told us that it 
affected his health and he had difficulty sleeping. I have seen from the file how frustrating 
Mr F found all this. 
Compensation
Mr F has received £300 in compensation from Barclays for the hasty way that they closed 
his account and they have written off his overdraft. In total Mr F has received £825.56 in 
compensation from Barclays. 
I have considered the position Mr F has been put in. I dont doubt that having his accounts 
closed during the pandemic has had a very real impact on his health and wellbeing. And has 
meant that he didnt feel confident in running his business without a bank account.
Mr F hasnt been able to provide any written evidence that he applied for a new business 
account and was declined. However, he has mentioned that he went to two banks and asked 
if he could open a business account- he was told that they didnt have the staff to help him. I 
find his evidence plausible. I can appreciate that during lockdown Mr F would have found it 
difficult to open another account.
I appreciate that Barclays have sought to reinstate his accounts, but I also know that Mr F 
has had difficulties accessing mobile banking. So, he has been caused extra distress and 
inconvenience. He has let us know that these problems were finally resolved on 
18 December 2021.
Mr F hasnt been able to provide evidence of the losses to his business as a result of not 
having a bank account. So, I cant conclude that any business he lost was directly connected 
to Barclays closing his account. I also have no evidence to suggest that it was the problems 
with his mobile banking after the reinstating of the account that caused Mr F to close his 
business. I think Mr F could have accessed his accounts by other means and used the 
account to trade.
In conclusion, I accept Mr F has had a lot of disruption although it is difficult to establish how 
much of this is due to the pandemic in general and how much is as a result of the banking 
issues he has had with Barclays. I know Mr F will be disappointed, but I think the £825.56 
Mr F has already received is fair compensation and I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I wont be asking Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman