DRN-2789867
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited has turned down an escape of
water claim they made on their home insurance policy.  
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs and Mr P employed to a plumber to replace their wet room floor and 
install a shower tray, as theyd noticed cracked floor tiles. The plumber lifted the floor and
noted that the sub-floor was wet. He considered thered been a leak. So Mrs P got in touch
with Fairmead to make a claim.
Fairmead appointed a surveyor, which Ill call B, to inspect Mrs and Mr Ps home. The wet
room had been stripped out by the plumber. But B took photos and concluded the damage to
the floor suggested failed sealant. Based on Bs findings, Fairmead turned down the claim. It
said the policy excluded claims which were down to the failure of sealant or grout. It pointed
to policy conditions requiring policyholders to provide any documentation they may
reasonably require and not to dispose of parts of the contents without its permission.
Mrs and Mr P were unhappy with Fairmeads decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs and Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He thought Mrs and Mr
P had shown that theyd suffered a loss caused by something the policy covered. He didnt
think Fairmead had shown it was reasonably entitled to rely on the exclusion clause to turn
down the claim, as he thought Bs report lacked detail and clarity. He also thought Fairmead
had had the opportunity to discuss Mrs and Mr Ps plumbers findings with the plumber to
discuss the likely cause of damage. He recommended that Fairmead should settle Mrs and
Mr Ps claim.
Fairmead disagreed. It said Mrs and Mr P hadnt shown the damage had happened as the
result of an insured event, or that the amount theyd claimed for was reasonable. It provided
notes showing a claims hander had called Mrs and Mr Ps contractor. It appeared Mrs and
Mr P intended to replace their floor and in trying to find the source of the leak; the plumber
had stripped out everything in the wet room and disposed of it. So it said itd been deprived
of the chance to properly investigate the claim and its position had been prejudiced.  
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2021, explaining the reasons why I didnt think 
Fairmead had treated Mrs and Mrs P fairly. I said:
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally
call an insured event. In this case, Mrs and Mr P are claiming for damage caused by an
escape of water, which is something the policy covers.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. So
Ive looked closely at the available evidence to decide whether I think Mrs and Mr P have
provided enough evidence to show the water damage was down to something the policy
covers. Their plumber provided Fairmead with a cause of damage report. Ive carefully
considered this evidence. The report says:
Upon inspection of Mrs Ps shower room, the signs of water damage were instantly visible
as the water had travelled up the plaster loosening the tiles. 
After seeking permission from the home owner, I commenced with my inspection. I removed 
the shower tray and confirmed that there had been a severe leak. I can confirm that the 
source of the leak was from a compression fitting between the trap and the 40 mm ABS 
waste pipe.
In my professional opinion this is likely to have been caused by slight movement in the tray
or surrounding floor.
On the face of things, taking into account this evidence, I think that Mrs and Mr P have
shown an escape of water from a fixed installation at their home has taken place.
Once a policyholder has demonstrated their claim was down to something the policy covers,
its for an insurer to either accept a claim, or to show, on the balance of probabilities, that an
exclusion clause applies which means a claim shouldnt be paid.
In this case, Fairmead has relied on Bs report to conclude that the damage was likely down
to the failure of sealant or grout, which is specifically excluded by the policy terms. So Ive
looked carefully at Bs report. It says:
The claim has been declined in full.
Bathroom: When the surveyor inspected the floor he observed that the damage was caused
by evidence suggests failed sealant.
Kitchen: When the surveyor inspected the floor he observed that the damage was caused by
damage has been caused due to failed sealant.
Where I am provided with contradictory expert evidence, I need to decide which evidence I
find more persuasive. Both reports are brief. But I think Mrs and Mr Ps plumber has given a
clear explanation about what he believed caused the damage. Bs report lacks detail,
although it includes a number of photos. Theres no explanation though how the photos
relate to a finding of failure of sealant or grout. The report merely states that evidence
suggests failed sealant  but it doesnt say from where, or how this led to such widespread
water damage to the floor. Based on the evidence I currently have, Im more persuaded by
Mrs and Mr Ps plumbers findings.
Fairmead told us it did speak to Mrs and Mr Ps plumber about his report. So Ive looked
carefully at contact notes which show a record of what was discussed between Fairmead
and the plumber. The notes say that the claims handler asked if there were any photos of
the damage and the plumber confirmed there werent, because Mrs and Mr P hadnt been
planning to go through their insurance. The notes say the call handler asked if the leak was
discovered whilst getting the bathroom refurbished and that the plumber had said, it was
best (the claims handler) speak to the policyholders as they might have photos of the
condition of the wet room before he started work.
In my view, this doesnt suggest that the plumbers findings were discussed in detail during
the call. It seems the focus was on whether the plumber had photos of the damage. There
doesnt seem to be any indication that the plumber thought the damage was down to the
failure of grout or sealant. So I dont think these call notes are enough to persuade me thatFairmead has shown its reasonable to apply the failure of sealant or grout exclusion.
Fairmead says that the fact the plumber disposed of Mrs and Mr Ps fixtures and fittings etc.
has prejudiced its ability to investigate the claim. Ive considered this. I dont dispute that it
would be helpful if Fairmead had had the chance to see the wet room as it was. But given it
seems there was no knowledge that there might be an insured problem causing the cracked
tile and Mrs and Mr P had instructed the plumber to replace it, it doesnt seem theyd have
had much reason to believe theyd need photos of the room before the work started. Im also
mindful that Mrs and Mr P told Fairmead they were on holiday when the plumber found the
leak and investigated its source. Again, it seems there was little chance for them to take
photos.
The evidence Fairmead does have of the flooring that was previously installed was a photo
of a cracked tile and part of its surrounds. And now its only really able to see the sub-floor.
Its also mentioned that it was unlikely to have disposed of the existing fixtures and fittings 
it wouldve refitted them once the flooring was repaired. So it says its being asked to pay far
higher costs than it wouldve incurred.
But, Im not planning to tell Fairmead to pay this claim  simply to reconsider it without
reference to the exclusion its relied on. It does have evidence of a water leak which has
substantially damaged Mrs and Mr Ps sub-floor. So its open to Fairmead to consider the
available evidence in line with the remaining terms and conditions to decide what, if any
costs, its liable to pay.
Overall, I currently dont think Fairmead has shown its fair to apply the exclusion clause and I
currently think the available evidence shows its most likely the cause of the damage was
down to a water leak from a fitting rather than from the failure of sealant or grout. So Im not
persuaded Fairmead has considered Mrs and Mr Ps claim fairly.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted me to consider.
Ultimately, Fairmead accepted my provisional findings. It reconsidered the claim and agreed 
to settle it. It told us that if its contractor had carried out the repair works, the total cost to it of 
completing the repairs to the kitchen and bathroom would be £3,758.75, less the applicable 
policy excess of £350. I asked the investigator to put Fairmeads offer to Mrs and Mr P.
Mrs and Mr P didnt accept Fairmeads offer. They said they had spent over £5500 on the 
repairs and if Fairmead had accepted the claim at the outset, they wouldve asked it to 
replace their bathroom on a like for like basis. However, they couldnt provide us with any 
invoices which set out the actual costs theyd incurred. They told us that their kitchen had 
had to be made smaller to complete the works and their flooring was of a lesser quality. 
They told us their toilet had been damaged on removal and had to be replaced. And they 
told us theyd been inconvenienced for many months. 
The investigator explained that the complaint would be passed back to me so that I could 
consider whether or not Fairmeads offer was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Fairmeads offer to pay Mrs and Mr P a settlement of £3758.75, less 
the applicable excess is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.In my provisional decision, I set out why I intended to direct Fairmead to reconsider the claim 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. I didnt provisionally tell it to make a settlement 
offer  and I explained that it would be for Fairmead to decide what costs, if any, it was liable 
for. So Im pleased to note that Fairmead not only accepted my provisional decision, but also 
went further and calculated the settlement it considered was due.
The policy terms and conditions set out how Fairmead settles claims. The policy wording 
says:
We will at our option repair or replace the property claimed for using a repair or 
replacement supplier nominated by us. Where you prefer to use your own 
tradesman, we will need to agree this with you beforehand and the amount we pay 
you will not exceed what we would have paid our supplier.
In this case, Mrs and Mr Ps bathroom had already been stripped-out by the time they made 
the claim and their own contractor had already planned to install a new shower tray and a 
floor. Mrs and Mr P say they wouldve preferred for Fairmead to manage the works, but 
given their contractor was already in place, it seems more likely to me that theyd have 
wanted him to continue with the works he already had planned. But in any event, if Fairmead 
had accepted the claim and its own contractors had done the works or Mrs and Mr P had 
preferred to use their contractor, the policy terms mean that Fairmeads costs would have 
been limited to what it wouldve cost its own suppliers to do the work. 
Fairmead has provided me with a scope of the works it says its contractors wouldve carried 
out. These costs include replacing tiling and finishing flooring in the bathroom and the costs 
of removing and refitting the bathroom sanitary ware  with the exception of the toilet and 
pan which its included. This suggests it doesnt consider that Mrs and Mr Ps sanitary ware 
as a whole needed to be replaced. Mrs and Mr Ps contractors report put the cause of 
saturation of the tiles and timber sub-structures of the floor down to a leaking trap under the 
shower. It isnt clear why the other sanitary ware wouldve needed to be replaced, as theres 
no expert evidence it was damaged. And so I dont think it was unreasonable for Fairmead 
not to include the costs of paying for new sanitary ware in its settlement.
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr P say theyve incurred substantial costs, which significantly 
exceed Fairmeads offer. But there are simply no photos of the bathroom before the damage 
happened to show what was previously in place. And they also havent been able to provide 
me with any invoices to show what works were done. And theres no expert evidence to 
demonstrate any necessary works which Fairmead may have missed from its scope of 
works, which wouldve been covered by the policy terms. Fairmead calculated its offer for 
the kitchen flooring based on its surveyors report, so I think its most likely it did so based on 
its photos and observations of the original kitchen floor. In this case, I dont think I have 
enough evidence to show me that Fairmead hasnt fairly calculated its offer of settlement.
And I also appreciate that Mrs and Mr P say theyve been inconvenienced by their claim. But 
in this case, I think Fairmead was in a difficult position because the bathroom had been 
stripped out and so its opportunity to assess the damage and scope of repair works was 
limited. In this case then, I dont think it would be fair for me to tell Fairmead to pay Mrs and 
Mr P any compensation.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Fairmeads offer of settlement is fair and reasonable 
and Im not directing it to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Fairmeads offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr P £3758.75, less their applicable 
policy excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman