DRN-3766519
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse him for payments he made using 
his credit card towards what he says was an online investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In July 2020 Mr J made two payments using his HSBC Mastercard credit card. The first of 
these was for £254.80 (plus a non-Sterling fee) on 6 July and the second payment was for 
£2,466.99 (plus a non-Sterling fee) on 20 July. Mr Js statements show that a corresponding 
credit (for the first payment) was received back onto his card a few weeks later which 
amounted to £235.97 after the exchange rate had been taken into account.
Mr J believed the payments were going to fund his investment account with a firm Ill refer to 
as F. But they appeared on his statement as going to different merchants that Ill refer to as 
Q and A respectively. 
In August 2020 when Mr J had problems making a withdrawal from his investment with F, he 
concluded hed been the victim of a scam and reported this to HSBC. Ultimately HSBC 
declined to offer a refund. Mr J complained and when HSBC maintained their position the 
complaint was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she didnt think HSBC ought to have intervened in the original payments or that theyd acted 
unfairly when not pursuing a chargeback or a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (s.75). Mr J disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Js complaint is that he would like HSBC to refund him the payments 
described above. So, Ive considered whether there is any reasonable basis for HSBC to do 
so. I dont think there is, and Ill explain why. 
HSBC have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests. I 
accept that F were operating a scam. But Mr J being the victim of a scam doesnt in itself 
obligate HSBC to provide a refund. I dont think HSBC were wrong when they didnt 
intervene in the payments at the times they were made. Whilst (particularly the larger of the 
two) were for more than Mr J typically spent using his credit card, it isnt unusual for 
cardholders to use their cards for one-off, larger infrequent spending. I dont think the 
payments (either individually or collectively) were so unusual that its reasonable to expect 
HSBC to have done more to question them at the time. 
Once the payments had already been made, the only options available for recovery are 
chargeback or s.75. Given the first of the payments appears to have been refunded by the 
merchant, I dont think HSBC ought to have done more, and I dont think they are 
responsible for the deficit caused by fluctuations in the exchange rate. 
HSBC are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to 
investments. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback route 
to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. But in 
this case, Mr J has confirmed that funds were deposited in his trading account and has 
provided a screenshot to evidence this. The nature of his claim is that F were operating a 
scam as they wouldnt allow withdrawals, and this isnt something the chargeback scheme 
provides protection against. So, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when declining to take a 
chargeback further, as I dont think there was an avenue for them to pursue that had any 
prospect of success. 
S.75 requires that there is an unbroken link between the Debtor (Mr J), Creditor (HSBC) and 
the Supplier (F). This is referred to as the DCS chain. But this payment went to A. Ive not 
seen evidence to support that A were party to any contract between Mr J and F and as such 
the DCS chain is broken and s.75 doesnt therefore apply. The alleged breaches of contract 
(refusing to allow a withdrawal) all refer to F, and I dont think Mr J has evidenced a claim 
against A either (in the event they were to be considered the supplier). Indeed, the evidence 
seems to support that A provided cryptocurrency and sent this on to the wallet address 
provided. Overall, I dont think HSBC ought to have done more under the provisions of s.75.
Im of course sorry to hear of the difficult personal circumstances that Mr J has described. 
And Ive no doubt that losing this money had and continues to have a significant impact. But 
as I dont think HSBC are responsible for this loss, I cant fairly tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman