DRN-4266619
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained about their car insurer Ageas Insurance Limited as it 
didnt fix their car properly. 
Ageas is the insurer. It uses other companies to do insured repairs and assessments. Ageas 
is responsible for the other companies.
What happened
There was an incident in September 2021 and Ageas took Mr Ms car for repair. When it was 
returned to him there was a knocking noise and an issue with the coolant. Ultimately the 
knocking noise was attributed to worn suspension brushes. But Mrs M and Mr M have never 
been satisfied regarding the coolant.
The garage, when initially repairing the car, hadnt taken air out of the system. So that had to 
be rectified but Mr M felt there was still a leak. The garage suggested taking the car to a 
main dealer garage (DG) and that happened in December 2021. Those investigations were 
inconclusive, not least because the car was not roadworthy at the time (due to faults not 
related to the incident or insured repairs). The DG said it would test the car once Mr M fixed 
those issues. 
On 9 March 2022 Ageas told Mr M it would cover the cost of a diagnostic by the DG and a 
hire car for the time Mr M would be without his car. Mr Ms car was still not roadworthy. It 
was booked in for a check by the DG on 19 May 2022. Following the check Mr M understood 
there was a coolant leak and the DG would need to strip the car down to resolve it. He 
understood this was in the area worked on after the incident and that something had gone 
wrong with those repairs. The diagnostic check and a video taken by the DG were sent to 
Ageas and it asked the DG for a view on whether there was an issue with the coolant and, if 
there was, was it likely related to the accident/its repairs.
In a letter dated 27 May 2022, Ageas set out some of the findings of the garage. Ageas 
addressed the letter to Mr M, and in the body said its findings were discussed with you. In a 
letter in June 2022 Ageas engineer said the DG investigations showed no issue with the 
coolant  the system was pressure tested and the pressure held. There was also no fault 
warning in the engine history. Ageas said some staining was found, suggesting a leak had 
occurred at some point  but there wasnt a current leak, the system was functioning 
normally. The letter also detailed the findings of another engineer that had met with Mr M to 
talk about the coolant issue in early June  that the system was functioning as expected. So 
Ageas wasnt prepared to do anything more with Mr Ms car. And it didnt think it had caused 
any unreasonable delays in investigating Mr Ms concerns. But it acknowledged that the 
repairing garage should have taken air out of the system before returning the car to Mr M in 
2021. Ageas paid Mr M £150 compensation for that.
Mrs M and Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They were disappointed 
the car was still broken so many months after the accident and repairs. They said the May 
letter was a lie because the writer had been discussing the DG findings with Mrs M not Mr M. 
Whilst our Investigator was reviewing their complaint they referred to the diagnostic check 
completed by the DG, which they said showed a leak had been found  and that the DG had 
told Mr M there was a leak there. Mrs M and Mr M also provided an email from the DG which 
said a leak had been found. 
Our Investigator reverted to Ageas with this detail. Ageas shared detail it had received from 
the DG, which confirmed the opposite  its investigations had shown that there was no 
current leak. Ageas noted the email Mrs M and Mr M had presented was from a business 
manager, whereas it had received contact from the service and technical teams.
With further detail having become available during his investigation, our Investigator issued 
three views on the complaint. His final opinion though was that Ageas had fairly and 
reasonably shown there was no outstanding repair issue with Mr Ms car. And he didnt think 
Ageas had lied in its May letter or caused any unreasonable delay in investigating the repair 
issue with the car. He felt £150 for the repairing garages initial mistake of not removing air 
from the system was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs M and Mr M remained unhappy. They were adamant there was a leak and that the 
diagnostic, along with the video and the email they had from their contact at the DG showed 
this. Their complaint was put forward for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
Before their complaint was considered by an Ombudsman, in June 2023 they said they had 
obtained a report on the car. They presented various photos of the car and our Investigator 
explained that these did not amount to a report  that what would be needed was a report 
from a suitably qualified expert explaining what the problem is. Mrs M then provided photos 
of a printed-out email with hand-written notes on it. The printed detail listed a number of 
vehicle checks and there was hand-written detail from two sources. One of the sources was 
Mrs M  stating the damage was due to the incident/repairs and not there prior. The second 
source appears to list a number of faults found  although there is no detail about who found 
these faults. Of relevance is Coolant level possible thermostat housing. 
The complaint came to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint but I needed to share with both parties my view on the complaint taking into 
account the new evidence of the report submitted by Mrs M and Mr M. So I issued a 
provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Ageas lied
Ageas did address the letter to Mr M  he is the policyholder. The letter did appear to refer to 
Ageas discussing findings with Mr M because Ageas said the conversation was with you. 
I can see why Mrs M and Mr M felt that was wrong because the discussion had taken place 
with Mrs M, not Mr M. But I dont think that the author set out to lie when he used the word 
you. Nor do I think he was wholly incorrect to phrase things that way. Mrs M, a named 
driver on Mr Ms policy, has been representing him during the claim and complaint. So, when 
Ageas was speaking to Mrs M, it was, effectively, speaking to Mr M. In any event though, 
this choice of wording is not, in my view, something which reasonably adds doubt to the rest 
of Ageas investigation or findings. I know Mrs M and Mr M think a court would say it would 
taint everything  but that is not my view.  
Air in coolant
Absolutely the car should not have been returned to Mr M without air, resulting from the 
repair, being removed from the system.  Mr M should not have had to take the car back for 
this to be resolved. But Ageas has paid £150 for the upset caused in this respect. That, in 
my view, is fair and reasonable. 
Reported on-going coolant issueIm not persuaded the new evidence presented by Mrs M adds to the complaint. It certainly 
doesnt, in my view, amount to an expert report. And even if I afford some benefit of the 
doubt and accept that the second source of handwriting is a suitably qualified expert to be 
able to find the faults listed  the author offers no opinion or explanation to satisfy there is 
a) a current coolant leak and b) that it has been caused either in the incident or by the work 
Ageas garage undertook. So I revert back to the other evidence on file. 
I think the phrasing on the DGs diagnostic print out does cause a lack of clarity. It could be 
read that there is a current leak. And I think Ageas tacitly acknowledged that when, having 
seen this print out, it asked the DG for sight of the video and further expert opinion.
It is the further comments from the DG to Ageas that are really compelling. I cant 
understand why a colleague of theirs also wrote to Mrs M and Mr M stating a different view. 
But I do think its relevant that he was a business manager, whereas those Ageas was 
dealing with were from the service and technical area of the business. I think they are more 
appropriately qualified to comment on this mechanical issue and I find the service area 
comments compelling.
Theyve noted the engine is marked in the area of the thermostat housing. They say this 
evidences that there has been a leak at some point. I bear in mind that Mr M replaced the 
engine around two years before the accident. But Ageas contact at the DG explains that the 
marks are old staining  such they cant be related to the incident or repairs. They also note 
the staining is not in the area of repair carried out by Ageas. Further though, that pressure 
tests have been done and the system is showing no signs of a current leak. The service area 
conclude that would absolutely tell us there is no issue with the coolant system at all. I see 
also that Ageas had an independent engineer review everything and meet with Mr M. That 
engineer provided a report and its content concurred with the comments of Ageas DG 
contact. So Im satisfied that, on balance, Ageas final response of June 2022  essentially 
that there is no coolant issue/leak for it to fix  was fair and reasonable.
Period of investigations
This has been on-going for a long time. But I bear in mind that in December 2021 Mr M was 
told further investigations could only be undertaken when the car was roadworthy. The 
evidence I have seen was that that occurred in May 2022. Within about a month the car had 
been tested and Ageas had provided its final answer  that there was no fault with the 
coolant system. That response allowed Mrs M and Mr M to complain to us, which they did, 
and they were free to gather other evidence, if they wanted to, to show Ageas was wrong. 
They gathered some detail during our investigations but their report, discussed above, was 
only presented in July 2023. Ive now considered that and, as explained above, it hasnt 
persuaded me that Ageas final response of June 2022 was wrong. Im not persuaded that 
Ageas caused unreasonable delays in considering post-repair concerns about Mr Ms car.
Ageas said it was satisfied by my findings but that it wanted to provide one clarification. It 
explained that the engineer who had met with Mr M was not independent, that he was 
actually one its senior field engineers.
Mrs M expressed frustration at my findings. She said the coolant leak can be seen and they 
did not know what else they could say.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank Ageas for its clarification. Im satisfied though that the independent status or 
otherwise of the field engineer doesnt make his report, concurring as it does with the other 
findings, any less persuasive. I really appreciate how frustrated and upset Mrs M and Mr M 
are about this. But I remain of the view, based on the wealth of persuasive evidence 
available, which includes the field engineers report, that Ageas final response of June 2022 
 essentially that there is no coolant issue/leak for it to fix  was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman