DRN-3803721
The complaint
Ms C says NewDay Ltd, trading as Fluid, irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Ms C opened a Fluid card in November 2019. It had a £300 credit limit. She says that was 
affordable for her at the time but as her circumstances changed NewDay should not have 
increased her credit limit to £1,300 in July 2021. She was on maternity leave and half pay 
between April and August 2021 and received notice of redundancy in July 2021. Proper 
checks would have shown her situation had changed. She was not consistently repaying her 
balance in full and this should have been considered.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Ms Cs complaint. He looked at the initial lending decision 
and said from the results of NewDays checks, which were proportionate, the lending 
seemed affordable. But he thought NewDay should have carried out better checks before 
increasing Ms Cs credit limit. However, based on the information he had seen from Ms Cs 
bank statements he thought the increase seemed sustainably affordable and so NewDay 
had not acted unfairly. He explained that NewDays credit check did not show the default    
Ms C referenced.
Ms C disagreed. In summary, she said the evidence she provided has not been properly 
scrutinised and the assessment favours NewDay. A default had been on her file since 2020 
so how did NewDay not see this? The facts she has put forward show the credit limit 
increase was not affordable  her salary had fallen, and her redundancy had been 
confirmed.
As an agreement was not reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I want to respond to Ms Cs comment that the we favour the big corporations and not
individual customers. We are an independent and impartial organisation and we do not act 
on behalf of banks or consumers - it is not in our interest to find in favour of one party over 
the other.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit facilities it was giving to Ms C were affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limits it offered Ms C, how much she had to repay
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew
about her. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
As there is no dispute about the initial lending I will focus here on the limit increase.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of the increase; if so, did it make a fair lending decision based on the 
results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely have shown.
NewDay has provided the information it based its checks on prior to increasing Ms Cs limit. 
This included how she was using and managing her account and data on her
external borrowings from the credit reference agencies. I dont think there was anything in 
that information that ought to have concerned NewDay. She asks why it didnt see the 
default that had been on her file since 2020, but there can be discrepancies between what 
she would see on her full file and the extract a lender might see  there can be timing 
differences, and not all lenders report to all agencies. Ms C also raised that she was not 
consistently clearing her balance in full, but I dont think that in itself should prevent a credit 
limit increase.
I do think NewDay ought to have updated its income and expenses check given Ms C still 
had a substantial level of external borrowings  albeit they had reduced since she took out 
the card. Ms C sent in her bank statements from the months prior to the limit increase. I am 
not saying NewDay ought to have asked for copies of them, but it is a way for me to 
understand her finances at the time, and to see what NewDay would most likely have seen if 
it had carried out better checks. Having reviewed her statements I dont think NewDay would 
have reached a different decision had it carried out better checks. There were no signs of 
financial stress  for example, Ms C was not reliant on an overdraft facility, she was not 
using payday loans and was able to afford discretionary spend, as well as making payments 
into savings accounts. I think from proportionate checks NewDay would have fairly 
concluded the additional credit would be sustainably affordable for Ms C.
I anticipate Ms C will dispute this as she has told us she could not afford her bills, and I am 
not saying Ms C had no financial worries, but given the value and type of borrowing I dont 
think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to carry out the depth of analysis needed 
to discover if that was the case. She referred to a loan repayment for £455, but the earliest 
evidence I found that she was making that payment was 16 August 2021  so after NewDay 
made its decision. 
Ms C also raised that her redundancy had been confirmed, and I can see she signed an 
agreement on 9 July 2021 with her employment ending on 31 December 2021. But unless 
she had disclosed that to NewDay I dont think proportionate checks would have uncovered 
it to allow NewDay to take it into account. 
It follows I dont think NewDay was wrong to increase Ms Cs credit limit.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman