DRN-3563897
The complaint
Mrs P complains as trustee of a trust, (T) that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed properly to 
compensate T for the banks poor service.   
What happened
 The background to the complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 27 May 2022, 
which forms part of this decision.
I provisionally concluded that the complaint should be partially upheld.  But I didnt think it 
would be fair to ask Barclays to pay T compensation for the loss of an investment 
opportunity which the trustees had claimed. 
In summary I said: 
It is not in dispute that Barclays made errors and provided poor service to T  including:
- Failing in 2018 to open the trust account in accordance with the trustees instructions 
and ignoring representations by Mrs P that theyd made an error.
- Loss of documents in July 2019 which meant they did not remove Mr E as a 
signatory on the account mandate and record Ms W as his replacement.
- Delay in updating Mrs Ps new address which resulted in statements being sent to 
her old address and then had to be redirected.
Although I agree that in 2018 the account was not set up as the trustees had instructed, 
and which Barclays have acknowledged, nonetheless, Ive not been persuaded that 
Barclays error meant the trustees were denied access to the account. The effect of the 
banks error was that Mrs P and the other trustees could not operate the account solely. 
Rather, instructions to the bank had to be given jointly by the trustees. Whilst I 
acknowledge that this resulted in added inconvenience to the trustees as they all had to 
be involved every time an instruction had to be given, this doesnt equate to a denial of 
access to the account.
Mrs P has shared with us a completed application form which was signed in June 2019 
for an investment fund. She says it was the trustees intention to invest the proceeds of 
the account in that fund. Mrs P goes on to say the application was never submitted 
because the trustees were unable to draw a cheque on the account. She maintained that 
the inability to draw the cheque stemmed from the banks failure to put right its 2018 
error as well as its further delay in 2019 to retire Mr E from the mandate in favour of Ms 
W as the new trustee.
As I have previously noted, I consider that it would, nonetheless, have been possible for 
the trustees to operate the account. It is worthwhile noting also that in June 2019 when 
the trustees were contemplating reinvesting the funds in the account, they hadnt yet 
asked Barclays to remove Mr E from the account mandate.
By way of added compensation, to recognize of the trustees inability to invest the funds 
elsewhere, the investigator recommended that Barclays pay 0.05% interest on the 
account balance from the date the trustees originally requested the funds be removed 
from the account to the date they were withdrawn. However, given my finding that the 
errors made by Barclays did not prevent the trustees from operating the account and 
invest the funds elsewhere, I dont consider that bank should have to compensate T in 
that regard.
To be clear, I acknowledge that there had been avoidable inconvenience to the trustees as a 
result of Barclays failures. However, I am of the view that this did not prevent the trustees 
from investing the funds elsewhere and therefore I am not minded to award any 
compensation for the loss of any investment opportunity as T has claimed.
Mrs P has claimed the trust incurred extra solicitors costs arising from the transfer of the 
account proceeds from Barclays to the account the trustees later opened with another 
bank. But Ive seen no evidence of these costs. So, Im not at present persuaded it would 
be fair to require that Barclays reimburses such costs to T.
Mrs P has told us that in all the time she has dealt with Barclays they have failed to act 
on any of the trustees instructions apart from eventually amending her address details 
and in February 2020 paying the £500 compensation that had been promised back in 
July 2019. That is largely true. And Ive noted above the inconvenience caused by, for 
example the need to redirect post from Mrs Ps old address to her new one.

On top of that the combination of the banks failure to put right its 2018 error and the loss 
of Ts documents in 2019 would no doubt have caused the trustees some frustration. 
And Im persuaded the operation of the account was made less easy than otherwise it 
might have been if the trustees were able to do so individually. Barclays have already 
paid T £500. But I agree with the investigator they should do more. Barclays should pay 
an additional £150 in further recognition of the inconvenience caused to T.
Barclays accepted my Provisional Decision. T didnt.  On its behalf Mrs P reiterated the 
arguments she originally made that by altering the account opening documents in the way 
they did, not only were Barclays actions quite serious they were responsible for the 
subsequent chain of events. 
And in relation to the lost investment opportunity, although Mrs P acknowledges that at the 
time T could have obtained Mr Es signature to transfer the account proceeds to the 
investment fund, she said T would have incurred a cost in doing so.    
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my Provisional 
Decision. Ill explain why.
Barclays have agreed they made an error when in 2018, contrary to the trustees instructions 
they altered the basis on which the account operated. Im satisfied that in turn, the knock-on 
effect was that the operation of the account became less straightforward, not least in the 
circumstances the trustees faced in June 2019. As Mrs P explained Mr Es signature would 
have been required to transfer the proceeds of the account to the investment fund. But she 
goes on to explain that this would have come at a cost to T if the trustees had followed 
through with their intention. But they didnt. The fundamental point, however, is that contrary to Ts case the trustees werent precluded 
from operating the account because of what Barclays did wrong in 2018, although Im 
satisfied it caused T avoidable inconvenience 
Putting things right
 Having considered everything I remain of the view that the settlement set out in my 
Provisional Decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay T £150 in recognition of the inconvenience caused to T.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman