DRN-3029145
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in November 
2004. The PPI was attached to a credit card, which had been opened in 2003. Mr T says 
HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold the PPI policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought HSBCs subsequent 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mr T paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether HSBC made it clear the PPI was 
optional and Mr T didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. As I said above, the PPI was 
taken out in 2004 by which time the credit card account was already up and running. So I 
dont think Mr T would have reasonably thought the PPI was a condition of his credit card  
because he was already able to use it before the PPI was sold. On balance, I think hed 
have known he could refuse the cover if wanted to. 
The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr T. That means it 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable. But it did have to provide enough 
clear and timely information about the cover so he could decide if it was right for him.
I accept its possible the information HSBC gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think Mr T would have acted differently even if HSBC had told 
him more about the policy. I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the cover, 10% of 
his account balance would have been cleared for every month he was off sick or if he was 
made redundant up to a maximum of 12 months for each claim. His balance would have also 
been cleared in the unfortunate event of Mr Ts death. 
Mr T hasnt specified whether hed have received any contractual sick pay from his 
employer. But even if he was entitled to some sick pay, I think the PPI would have lasted for 
longer than hed have received full pay. I appreciate Mr T had some savings, which were the 
equivalent of around two months of his gross pay. But again, the PPI would have lasted for 
longer than those savings. And with cover, he could have kept those funds for his other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for Mr T if he 
was out of work.
I appreciate Mr T told us that hed been diagnosed with back pain in 1983 and he took over-
the-counter medication to manage that condition. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest 
that this medical issue was still troubling Mr T 20 years later when this cover was sold. So I 
dont think the exclusions around medical conditions would have put him off taking this cover 
out. 
Mr Ts representative argued it may have been more difficult to make a successful claim for 
a back or mental health condition. But upon considering the terms and conditions of the 
cover, I am satisfied there were no such additional restrictions on cover for such conditions. 
Those representing Mr T argued he didnt need PPI because he was entitled to a death in 
service payment from his employer. However, such cover would have only paid out in the 
unfortunate event of Mr Ts death. He wouldnt have been able to claim a death in service 
payment if he was made redundant or if he was off sick from work. 
I havent seen anything that was unusual about Mr Ts employment circumstances that 
would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. From 
the information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. I can see how the policy 
could have been helpful to Mr T if he found himself out of or unable to work.  Ive found that 
he chose to take PPI out, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. I dont think the cover 
was fundamentally wrong. And it seems most likely it wasnt too dissimilar to what he 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was most likely given. 
With all of this in mind, I cant reasonably say Mr T would have declined the cover had HSBC 
given him more or better information about it. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr T would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what its likely he thought he was getting and I think it could have provided a useful benefit in a difficult time if he wasnt working. And in those circumstances, I think that he would have 
taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ts representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mr T about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mr T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
HSBC didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ts representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr T should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: HSBC failed to tell Mr T about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr T wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr T in order to remedy the unfairness caused by HSBC not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ts representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for HSBCs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr T paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr T 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if HSBC had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that HSBCs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ts complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should pay Mr T an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman