DRN-3598122
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted his account and returned his funds to 
source. And hed like the money repaid to him. 
What happened
Mr A had an account with HSBC. 
On 31 January 2018 Mr A received a payment of just over £33,000 into his account. Prior to 
the arrival of the funds Mr A had a balance of £14.79. 
In February 2018 HSBC received a report from a third-party bank stating the funds were 
fraudulent. Between 31 January 2018 and 1 February 2018 £15,850 was transferred out 
from Mr As account to three different payees. 
After receiving the report HSBC contacted Mr A regarding the funds. Mr A explained that the 
funds were paid to him for construction work and provided some documents to show his 
entitlement to the funds.
After reviewing the evidence HSBC werent satisfied with the documents Mr A provided and 
returned £17,899.92 to source.
In March 2018 HSBC made the decision to close Mr As account with immediate notice. 
Mr A complained to HSBC and asked why his funds to be returned. However the bank didnt 
uphold his complaint  and explained theyd acted fairly. 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked into it. But 
they didnt think the bank had acted unfairly. In summary they werent satisfied with the 
evidence Mr A provided. Mr A explained he was experiencing significant mental health 
problems at the time, however our investigator didnt think this showed he was entitled to the 
funds. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion  so its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As main complaint here is regarding HSBCs actions in returning his funds to source. So 
thats what Ill focus on in my conclusions. I understand hell be very disappointed, but for me 
to ask HSBC to refund Mr A the money that was in his account in February 2018 Id need to 
be satisfied hes entitled to the funds. And for me to do this Id need sufficient proof. 
Good industry practice says that once a receiving bank, in this case HSBC, is notified their 
customer received funds from a scam  they need to investigate. If following the 
investigation the receiving bank isnt satisfied that their customer is entitled to the funds then 
theyll be expected to return the funds to the victims bank. 
Unfortunately, having reviewed the documents Mr A supplied HSBC and his more recent 
explanation for why he received the funds  specifically as an intermediary in a construction 
deal  Im not satisfied that the evidence hes provided is sufficient. It follows I dont think 
HSBCs actions in not releasing him the money and returning his funds to source were 
unfair. I appreciate and empathise with Mr A about his health at the time  however this isnt 
something which changes my view on whether the evidence hes provided is sufficient. 
And despite what Mr A has argued  that the funds werent returned to source as HSBC 
advise  Ive seen evidence from the bank that this was in fact the case. This happened in 
2018. 
I appreciate this will disappoint Mr A however Im unable to ask HSBC to repay him the 
funds. And I can only advise him if hes entitled to these funds to contact the sender.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman