DRN-2316120
The complaint
Mr H1 and Miss H, represented by Mr H1s father, Mr H2, have complained about their 
property insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited in relation to a claim it handled after their 
home was damaged by a fire. They feel Fairmead handled the claim badly and caused 
delays.
What happened
The fire occurred in February 2018. Fairmead began handling the claim. Mr H1 and 
Miss H had some concerns and in May 2018 Fairmead issued a final response to Mr 
H1 and Miss H regarding its handling of the claim to that date. The letter confirmed that 
Mr H1 and Miss H were to obtain quotes for cleaning and reinstating their property.
At the end of May 2018 Mr H1 and Miss H were sent a quote for reinstating their home 
and they shared this with Fairmead. It totalled £52,980. Fairmead felt it was high and 
included work unrelated to the fire damage. Fairmeads loss adjuster completed a 
scope of works in June 2018, this came to around £17,000. Mr H2 queried the content 
of the scope, what amount had been allowed for each job and how the overall, 
seemingly small total had been reached.
Upon review the loss adjuster noted that Mr H2 had advised that certain areas of repair 
had been missing from its original scope. It was agreed that Fairmead would appoint a 
contractor to visit the property and complete a scope of works to better determine what 
was needed to reinstate the property and what that would cost Fairmead were it 
completing the repairs. This could then be offered in settlement of the claim. Fairmead 
noted that if Mr H1 and Miss H remained unhappy with the suggested settlement it 
could then have its contractor complete the work that had been scoped for.
In the meantime Mr H1 and Miss H obtained a further quote. This totalled £38,570.
Fairmeads contractor visited in late August but by the end of September and into 
October its scope hadnt been received, despite several chases from the adjuster. This 
was finally received on 16 October 2018 with a copy being shared with Mr H1 and Miss 
H the same day. Whilst Mr H2 had asked to see a full breakdown of costs for the scope 
the adjuster explained that an overall figure could be shared but not a full breakdown. 
The overall cost detailed was around £28,000.
Fairmead had an in-house surveyor review the scope and it was felt to be adequate. 
Fairmead told Mr H2 the choice now was to accept a cash settlement at the value of its 
contractors quote (with VAT to be paid later), or have its contractor complete the work.
Mr H2 was unhappy about the contractor completing the work, given it had taken two 
months to provide the scope. He also told Fairmead he was unhappy about certain 
elements of the quote. In late November 2018 Fairmead asked the loss adjuster to 
investigate the situation around items which Mr H2 said should be replaced rather than 
removed and/or cleaned and refitted. Fairmead felt this was relevant to whether its 
settlement offer of it either, paying cash for Mr H1 and Miss H to do the work or having 
its contractor to do the work, was fair and reasonable.
It was January 2019 before the loss adjuster made enquiries in this respect. By this 
point Fairmead had issued a further final response in December 2018 which 
considered how the claim had been handled to date as well as the settlements options 
on the table. The response said Fairmead was satisfied the scope was correct but 
didnt mention the review that the loss adjuster had been asked to undertake regarding 
certain items. £200 compensation was offered.
Mr H2 was dissatisfied and made a further complaint which Fairmead began 
investigating around the time the loss adjuster began making its enquiries about the 
disputed items. It was agreed that a site visit was necessary and this took place 
towards the end of January 2019 with Fairmead issuing a final response shortly 
thereafter on 7 February 2019. In that response Fairmead accepted its service to date 
had been poor and that delays had occurred. It confirmed that it had been agreed for 
its contractor to now complete the reinstatement work and that £750 compensation had 
been offered but turned down by
Mr H2.
A complaint was then made to this service in June 2019, just inside six months from 
the date of Fairmeads December 2018 final response letter. Mr H2 said the complaint 
wasnt just about Fairmeads claim handling, but how it had handled the complaint it 
had dealt with in late 2018, culminating in the final response issued in December 2018. 
He said that process had been flawed and had unreasonably delayed the claim. He 
also said that activity which had occurred before the final response issued in May 2018 
had impacted what had happened after that time so asked that we look at what 
happened then too. He said more than a year had passed and it was only now that 
work was underway, he had put in a lot of time and effort to move the claim forwards 
and Fairmead had been unsympathetic to the policyholders situation. Mr H2 said he 
felt Fairmeads procedures should be changed to prevent this from happening again.
Our investigator told Mr H2 that he could only look at what had happened between
15 May 2018 and 7 February 2019. He explained that we arent the regulator and our 
focus is on what happened to the complainant(s), not what may happen to others in the 
future. He felt Fairmead had caused some avoidable delays in handling the claim but 
noted it had offered a total of £950 compensation. He felt that was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Mr H2 said he was unclear why we couldnt comment on the activity which had 
occurred before 15 May 2018. Mr H2 noted the investigator had said Fairmead had 
always offered to complete the repairs which wasnt actually the case  this offer had 
only come later, initially it had insisted on Mr H1 and Miss H obtaining a quote when it 
hadnt even completed a scope of work at that time. The quote obtained was, 
therefore, flawed and the claim was delayed.
Mr H2 asked for an ombudsmans decision. Whilst the complaint was waiting to be 
allocated, Mr H2 told us that Fairmead had referred to this complaint as being resolved 
in a further final response letter regarding a further complaint that had been made. Our 
investigator reiterated that, under this complaint, we will only take into account activity 
up until 7 February 2019.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision. In short, I felt 
there were some elements of the complaint which I couldnt look at and I explained 
this. I also explained that, in respect of what I had been able to consider, I felt Fairmead had handled things poorly  but its total offer of £950 compensation was fair 
and reasonable.
In response Fairmead made a payment to Mr H1 of £750. It said it would also pay a 
further £200. 
Mr H2 reiterated that, at no time, had a cash settlement been requested by Mr H1 and 
Miss H. He said this meant there were several more months of delay than I hadnt 
allowed for and that Mr H1 had been badly let down by Fairmeads mismanagement of 
the claim. Miss H queried why Fairmead had made a payment of £750 direct to Mr H1 
only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
what I can consider
This service operates under certain rules (The Dispute Resolution Rules  DISP rules). 
One of the rules states that we cant look at a complaint if it is received more than 
six-months after the date of a final response issued by the respondent business. Not 
unless the business consents to us doing so or there were exceptional circumstances 
that meant the complaint couldnt be made within the correct period. Mr H1 and Miss H 
only complained to us in June 2019. This was within six-months of Fairmeads 
February 2019 and December 2018 final responses. But more than six-months from its 
May 2018 final response. That response dealt with how Fairmead had handled the 
claim to that date. Fairmead has told us it doesnt consent to us looking at this part of 
the complaint. I havent seen any exceptional circumstances that prevented Mr H1 and 
Miss H making a complaint at that time if theyd wished to. In fact they seem to have 
told Fairmead they were happy with its response and accepted the compensation it 
offered at that time. So I cant now go back over the activity which occurred before the 
final response dated 14 May 2018.
The provision of a final response also marks the end of a complaint. Its the point at 
which the parties have reached stalemate and, if the complainant wishes to, the 
complaint can then be referred to us. So we wont usually go beyond the point of that 
final response when assessing a complaint. Here, because Mr H1 and Miss Hs 
complaint was made to us within six-months of two final response letters we can 
consider the matter as a whole but we cant go beyond the point of the second final 
response. That doesnt prevent the complainant from making a further complaint, it just 
means that it has to be considered as a separate issue. So my review will end at 
7 February 2019.
It is also the case that I can only look at complaints about regulated activities. Whilst 
I know Mr H2 has raised various concerns about how Fairmeads complaints team 
member dealt with the complaint in late 2018, including the contents of her findings set 
out in the 2018 final response letter, I cant comment on those concerns. I can, for 
example, comment on whether the response issued was fair and reasonable in light of 
the complaint at hand  but I cant, for example, set out what I feel she did wrong or 
should have done instead. That is because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity 
and the DISP rules only permit me to consider complaints about regulated activities. So 
I wont be answering the concerns and questions that Mr H2 has raised about Fairmeads handling of the complaint at that time.
I can also only look at complaints from eligible complainants. There is no doubt here 
that Mr H1 and Miss H are eligible complainants. But Mr H2 is not. He is a 
representative who has kindly assisted in progressing the claim. I understand that he 
has spent time in doing that but I cant take any inconvenience he has been caused 
into account when considering this complaint against Fairmead.
Finally, as our investigator explained, this service is not the regulator. It is not part of 
our role to make insurers change their practices, or to make them take action to 
prevent upset being caused in the future to others. We dont make awards or findings 
with a view to punishing insurers. So my focus will remain on what happened during 
this claim and whether I think Fairmeads response to the complaint is fair and 
reasonable.
settling in cash
It seems that some arrangement to settle the claim in cash must have been made prior 
to May 2018, during the period I cant consider. I say that as the May 2018 final 
response mentions that Mr H1 and Miss H are organising their own quotes. Mr H1 and 
Miss H didnt object to that at that time.
When a policyholder is looking to have their own contractor complete work it isnt 
unusual for an insurer to not initially produce a scope of works. Its quite normal for the 
insurer to review any quote the policyholder obtains and then, only if there are 
concerns about the cost or extent of work detailed, will an insurer complete further 
investigations. That seems to be the course the claim took here following the May 2018 
final response. I cant fault Fairmead for following what is quite normal procedure. And 
it seems that because this was the course of the claim at this time Fairmead didnt offer 
to complete the work itself. I dont feel I can fault it for that either as there was no 
suggestion  until later on in the claim  that Mr H1 and Miss H didnt want to settle the 
claim in cash.
claim handling
That being said I dont think Fairmead handled the claim, with a view to settling it in 
cash, very well at all. I can understand why Mr H1 and Miss H became frustrated.
Both Fairmeads and its loss adjusters file show that from the point Mr H1 and 
Miss Hs first quote was submitted to it, the claim just took far too long to progress to 
each next step. Not least was the 2 month delay in Fairmeads contractor submitting its 
scope after its visit in August 2018.
Its also clear to me that this scope evidenced that Mr H2s concerns about Fairmeads 
initial scope were warranted.
Furthermore, whilst Mr H2 was told that Fairmead and the loss adjuster were looking 
into the concerns he raised following Fairmeads second scope about reusing or 
replacing certain items, this didnt progress for some time. I can see no good reason 
why this enquiry was delayed. If it hadnt been then I think the site visit which occurred 
at the end of January would have taken place sooner, meaning the parties could have 
come to an agreement about progressing the claim that much sooner too.
Overall I think Fairmead delayed the claim unreasonably by around four months during 
the period May 2018 to the beginning of February 2019. A claim which involves extensive repairs and the need for quotes, as well as scopes, to be verified and 
checked will always take some time to progress. There will always be periods of delay 
whilst matters are reviewed but it is only unreasonable delay which I will criticise an 
insurer for. For example, if Fairmeads contractor had taken two weeks instead of two 
months to provide its scope, that would probably have been viewed by me as a 
reasonable response period, rather than an unreasonable delay to the claim 
progressing.
compensation
I understand that this has been a difficult time, for Mr H1 particularly. But I have to be mindful 
that whilst a delayed claim will not have assisted the situation, the circumstances 
surrounding the fire and the need for a claim at all would always have caused a significant 
amount of distress and inconvenience. My focus is on what Fairmead caused which could 
have been avoided if it had handled the claim properly and in a timely manner. It is also the 
case, as explained above, that I cant consider any upset Mr H2 has suffered.
As Mr H2 has handled the claim this has, to an extent, shielded the policyholders from a lot 
of distress and inconvenience. But upset has still been caused because of the delays 
Fairmead allowed to occur. As I noted above, I think Fairmead caused around four months 
of delay, meaning that by February 2018 the claim was four months behind where it should 
reasonably have been. Ive no doubt this caused distress and inconvenience to the 
policyholders. But I note that Fairmead has offered £200 and £750 compensation.
Im aware that Mr H2 thinks that the £750 was offered by Fairmead in relation to the 
concerns hed raised about its handling of the complaint prior to that point. Having 
considered the February 2019 final response and bearing in mind offers of 
compensation I regularly see insurers making, Im not persuaded that is the case. Im 
satisfied that Fairmead offered £750 at this point as it realised its previous offer of £200 
compensation, based on its most recent review of the service it had provided was 
insufficient.
It is arguable whether the offer of £750 was an increase from the £200 or being offered 
in addition to that sum. As it isnt clear I think its reasonable to take the offer as 
meaning a total of £950 compensation was offered by Fairmead. Had Fairmead offered 
less than this sum  given its significant and unwarranted delays in a claim that was 
borne out of traumatic circumstances  Id probably have said that was unfair and 
unreasonable. Im satisfied that £950 is fair and reasonable compensation. If Mr H1 
and Miss H want Fairmead to pay this sum, they should contact it directly. Because 
Fairmead has, in my view, offered fair and reasonable compensation, Im not upholding 
the complain made to this service.
When assessing this complaint I was aware of Mr H2s argument that no cash 
settlement had been requested by Mr H1 and Miss H. But I explained within my 
provisional findings that there were limitations in respect of what I could consider. I also 
noted that following Fairmeads final response issued in May 2018, which referred to 
the fact that Mr H1 and Miss H were obtaining quotes, they didnt object to this. My 
background shows that by late May theyd obtained a quote and provided it to 
Fairmead, with its adjuster having commented on its content by late June, which Mr H2 
then disputed. So, from the point in May, where my assessment of the complaint is 
able to begin, both parties seem to have been acting on the premise that Mr H1 and 
Miss H wanted a cash settlement. Given what Ive seen, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Fairmead to act in this way. But I remain of the view it didnt handle 
things well; as Mr H2 has said, it mismanaged the claim. Im satisifed that Fairmeads 
failures caused distress and inconvenience. I also remain satisfied that a total of £950 compensation, as Fairmead has agreed to pay, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.
My provisional decision has not changed, it now forms part of this final decision. As 
Fairmead has offered to pay compensation at a level Im saitsifed is fair and 
reasonable, Im not upholding the complaint or making any award against it. I cant 
answer why Fairmead has paid Mr H1 direct  that is a matter for Mr H1 and Miss H to 
discuss with Fairmead. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman