DRN-2776570
The complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS), has mismanaged a hire agreement he entered into for a car, resulting 
unfairly in adverse information being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr G ordered a new car from a dealership which would be the subject of 
three-year hire agreement with VWFS. The lease consisted of an advanced rental of £1,337, 
followed by 35 monthly payments of £333. Mr G says that it was agreed that the supplying 
dealer would pay the advance rental cost, and he paid a refundable £500 deposit to secure 
the car. At this point the hire agreement wasnt signed by Mr G.
After Mr G ordered the car there was unfortunately, a fire at the factory leading to a 
considerable delay in the car being built. It was finally delivered in March 2020. Due to an 
increase in the road fund licence being introduced in April 2020 Mr G was anxious that he 
took possession of the car before that happened. He says that he was advised by the 
supplying dealership that this shouldnt be an issue and, even if he did take the car after 
April, there wouldnt be an increase in his monthly payment.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic the dealership closed, and so Mr G was unable to make 
arrangements to pick the car up until June 2020.
In June 2020, the dealership re-opened. Mr G says he then queried the advance rental 
payment shown on the agreement, as he had been told the dealership would make this 
payment. He says the dealership informed him that it would be reimbursing him £1,004 and 
he would, in effect, be making 36 payments of £337. Although Mr G disagreed this was what 
had been agreed he decided to sign the agreement and says he was later told by the 
supplying dealer that the agreement was live and took possession of the car in July 2020. Mr 
G also received back his £500 deposit and the sum of £1,004 as agreed by the dealer.
VWFS says that the supplying dealership first contacted it in March 2020 and asked for an 
agency approval of the proposed hire agreement, which allowed the dealer to print off the 
agreement. The agreement was provisionally approved by VWFS but when the invoice for 
the car was received in July 2020, it was noted that the cost of the car no longer matched 
the original paperwork due to the increase in the road fund licence. VWFS says this led to 
the proposal being declined and it contacted the supplying dealer to advise a new hire 
agreement needed to be signed.
There was then contact between Mr G and the supplying dealer over the terms of the 
agreement and signing a new agreement. Mr G declined to sign the new agreement. VWFS 
says that as Mr G had the car it then agreed to absorb the additional cost of the road fund 
licence and the original agreement was processed and went live in November 2020.
Mr G says that he was aware monies for the car in the form of the advanced rental and the 
monthly instalments were not being debited from his account as he had expected. He made 
contact with VWFS in September 2020 to find out what was happening. He says he was told 
at that time the agreement wasnt live and was advised contact the dealer. 
Mr G contacted the supplying dealer and, as set out above, was asked to sign a new 
agreement, which he declined as the advanced rental had now increased to £2,140. The 
additional £1,140 requested was to cover the amount of missed monthly payments and Mr G 
says was also to cover the additional road fund licence fee. There followed discussions 
between Mr G and the dealer, and the dealer and VWFS. Mr G also says he attempted, on 
several occasions, to speak directly with VWFS but was always told to speak with the dealer, 
which he found frustrating.
After the agreement finally went live in November 2020 Mr G complained to VWFS about 
VWFSs handling of the agreement. He says he also became aware that VWFS had debited 
£2336 from his account to clear the advanced rental fee and the outstanding monthly 
payments. Mr G says taking this amount would have caused him financial hardship and so 
he had to take steps to instruct his bank to recall this direct debit payment.    
VWFS closed Mr Gs complaint as it said the issues he had with the agreement were due to 
the actions of the supplying dealer. It referred his complaint to the dealer. Mr G then 
complained to this service.
From January 2021 VWFS has recorded the unpaid monthly instalments on Mr Gs credit 
file. He says this has had a severe impact on his credit score, and he thought he should be 
compensated for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the way this credit 
agreement had been handled.   
Our investigator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should be partially upheld. He said, 
although Mr G hadnt paid anything towards the agreement, and these arrears have all been 
recorded on his credit file, it would now be fair for VWFS to remove this adverse information. 
This was because Mr G had been disputing the payments and shouldnt be punished for 
that.
However, our investigator said he thought the dispute raised by Mr G was about how the 
supplying dealership had handled the arrangements of the hire agreement, so he didnt think 
VWFS had been wrong to refer Mr Gs complaint back to the dealer. He also said VWFS 
wasnt acting unreasonably to require the payments to be made in November 2020, when it 
had attempted to take the direct debit for the full outstanding amount.
As Mr G had been in dispute about the payments, our investigator said he could appreciate 
why Mr G had declined to make payments. He said that, as the agreement couldnt now be 
modified to incorporate the outstanding payments, a fair resolution would be for VWFS and 
Mr G to come to an agreement such as agreeing a payment plan to clear the arrears. He 
also asked VWFS to remove all the adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file for 
this agreement.
Our investigator said he didnt think that compensation, in these circumstances, was 
warranted. He said VWFS hadnt erred by not accepting the agreement in June 2020 due to 
the price mismatch, and the monthly payments were due under the agreement as Mr G had 
the car. 
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view that compensation wasnt appropriate. He said 
the situation had arisen out of VWFSs failure to contact him and he was also unhappy about 
VWFSs failure to notify him that it was recording adverse information on his credit file from 
January 2021. He said it had provided extremely poor customer service.
VWFS said it agreed that removing the missed payments before the agreement went live in November 2020 would be fair, but not from that point on. It said Mr G had the car and should 
have been budgeting to make these payments, so it was unclear why he hadnt then cleared 
the outstanding monies when required.
VWFS also said it hadnt agreed for the car to be handed to Mr G and this had been 
actioned by the supplying dealer. It also said this was against its best practice advice to 
dealers which was to ensure the agreement had been activated before the car was supplied.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory than I must decide what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened.
I appreciate Mr G had been very frustrated by events, but I have seen that not all of the 
matters he has raised were the responsibility of VWFS. Many of the issues he raised were 
about the supplying dealerships handling of the hire agreement.
The cars delivery was delayed both by the fire in the factory and the Covid-19 situation 
meaning, instead of it being registered before April 2020, it was registered afterwards and 
therefore attracted the increase in the road fund licence. I appreciate Mr G says the 
dealership advised him that he would not have to pay any increase from the figures 
calculated in September 2019, but that wasnt reflected on the invoice it sent VWFS for the 
cost of the car. The price of the car in July 2020 didnt match that which had been included in 
the hire paperwork. So, I cant reasonably say that VWFS acted unfairly when it rejected Mr 
Gs signed hire agreement and returned it back to the dealership.
I also think it was reasonable for VWFS to require the supplying dealership to handle the 
matter with Mr G, as it hadnt been involved in any of the pre-agreement discussions. VWFS 
also wasnt responsible for the dealership reimbursing Mr G a lower sum towards the 
advance rental. I havent seen any evidence that this was an offer made by VWFS and I 
think its more likely than not this was an incentive offered by the supplying dealer.
From the evidence, it appears there was a protracted discussion between Mr G, the 
dealership and VWFS. The position wasnt helped by the dealership having released the car 
to Mr G before the agreement had been activated. Again, I accept this wasnt an action 
taken by VWFS. I appreciate Mr G felt frustrated and blocked by VWFS deflecting his 
contact back to the dealership but, as it was the dealership that were brokering the 
agreement, I think this action of VWFS was reasonable.
Mr G declined to sign a new agreement and I think that was his prerogative, he had, by then, 
signed an agreement with terms he had agreed to and been provided with the car. VWFS 
therefore decided to cover the additional road fund licence fee and accept the original 
agreement. I think it would have been helpful for this to have been explained to Mr G, but I 
think its more likely than not that VWFS relied on the supplying dealership contacting Mr G. 
Ive seen the dealership said it did try to contact Mr G around this time, but was unable to do 
so.
Mr G then became aware that VWFS intended to take, by way of a direct debit, all the 
money that was outstanding including the advance rental payment. Mr G says he wasnt 
able to cover this and had to cancel the payment. I cant reasonably say the money wasnt owed, though I think notice to Mr G would have been helpful so that he could make the 
necessary arrangements to have the money available. I think its reasonable to say that Mr 
G was aware no payments were being taken for the car, as he had himself been chasing 
this. So, I think it would be reasonable for him to have expected to have to make these 
payments in a lump sum at some point, as he had the car. He had received the contribution 
from the dealership towards the advance rental and should have been budgeting to make 
those monthly payments. 
However, I accept that Mr G may not be in a position to clear all the outstanding monies in 
one go. VWFS has said that it is agreeable to work with Mr G to clear the arrears, possibly 
by the use of an appropriate payment plan. I think its reasonable that Mr G makes the 
payments as he has the car, and the payments outstanding are in the amount hed agreed to 
pay when signing the agreement. While I appreciate Mr G is concerned that VWFS hasnt 
been forthcoming in its contact with him he does need to work with it to clear these arrears. I 
am going to ask VWFS to work with Mr G and come to an agreement to clear the arrears.
I appreciate Mr G was unclear whether his payments had increased as per the second 
agreement, but he had refused to sign that, so the payments were as originally agreed. I 
think the lack of information was more likely due to the supplying dealer than VWFS, though 
I think VWFS could have provided Mr G with a breakdown about the lump sum that was due.
Ive seen that Mr G still has the car but hasnt made any payments. He says he did offer to 
return it to the dealership but received no reply from it about that. I havent seen that he 
made that same offer to VWFS. Mr G also says that he hasnt been able to make contact 
with VWFS to make payments, but I havent seen that VWFS has declined to take any 
money from him, so I am unclear if he has made offers to clear the arrears.
From the evidence Ive seen, I think there has been a breakdown in communications 
between Mr G and the dealership, and that VWFS could have done more. In particular, 
although VWFS says Mr G was aware of the potential impact on his credit record of not 
making payments, I havent seen any evidence that Mr G was contacted by VWFS in 
January 2021 before the adverse information was recorded on his credit file.
Although I appreciate VWFS, as a credit provider, is obliged to record accurate information 
as to the managing of an account by a consumer, it also needs to ensure the information is 
fair. Here, Mr G was in dispute about the payments as he was unclear whether the original 
agreement stood or not. He also doesnt appear to have been warned that in January 2021 
adverse information would be recorded. So, in these circumstances, I think it would be fair 
for VWFS to remove all the adverse information it has recorded on Mr Gs credit file about 
this agreement.
However, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr G, I am not going to 
ask VWFS to pay him compensation for its handling of the agreement. As set out above I 
dont think it was acting unreasonably requiring the supplying dealer to handle this matter 
with Mr G. It also agreed to accept the original hire agreement and absorb the additional cost 
of the road fund licence. It wasnt VWFS that had agreed the car was provided to Mr G 
before the agreement was activated. Ive also seen that Mr G has had use of the car since 
July 2020 and has not yet paid for that. He had signed an agreement showing he agreed to 
its terms and conditions, which included an advance rental and monthly payments.
I think VWFS could have done more about notifying Mr G about how it had calculated the 
sum it intended to deduct from his account in November and provided him with notice of that. 
It should also have informed him, prior to the recording the adverse information in January, 
that it was taking that action. But I think the removal of that adverse information is sufficient 
in itself as a settlement for Mr Gs complaint and Im not asking it to do more. For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking VWFS to do the following:
To remove all the adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file about this 
account.
To come to an agreement with Mr G for the arrears that have built up on the account 
to be cleared.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. Im asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial Services to do the 
following:
To remove all the adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file for this account.
To come to an agreement with Mr G for the arrears that have built up on the account 
to be cleared.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman