DRN-3062226
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) treated him when 
attending a branch to close an account.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events.
Mr K spoke to NatWest about closing an account and was advised to attend a 
branch, which he did in January 2020. 
Mr K thought a particular staff member in branch was not helpful and had 
intentionally avoided helping and passed him unnecessarily between colleagues.
While he was happy with the service he received from another agent, he says the 
actions of the first left him disturbed and upset. And he questioned whether their 
actions were related to Mr Ks clothing, disability or race.
A complaint was raised by Mr K. NatWest acknowledged it couldve handled the 
situation better, but disagreed any staff members profiled Mr K in any way. It sent a 
£30 voucher to Mr K as an apology for any inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He said NatWests offer was fair 
and reasonable. He said it had apologised for how Mr K felt and had given feedback 
to avoid it happening again. But he disagreed there was evidence to support Mr K 
had been intentionally avoided.
Mr K disagreed. He said NatWests £30 offer didnt relieve it of its responsibility in 
treating people equally. He was unhappy this was sent without his agreement and 
raised concerns about the way it handled his subsequent complaint. He also 
requested NatWests staff undergo equality training.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not NatWest has breached any equality 
legislation, I have taken this into account, amongst other things when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
In this case Mr K has been clear about the events that took place, and the interactions he 
had with NatWests staff. For the purposes of this decision I will recap these briefly.
Mr K approached Agent A upon entering the branch as the staff greeter (Agent B) 
was busy. Agent A then began speaking with other customers before Mr K.
Mr K waited and when Agent A was available they spoke. Mr K described him as 
sympathetic to his situation but said he directed him back to Agent B.
When Mr K then spoke to Agent B he was told that Agent A could help (who had 
been present and available throughout the time hed been waiting). 
Agent A then left the banking hall. Mr K queried this with Agent B and was told he 
may need to do something out the back. Several minutes after Agent C served Mr K 
and he was happy with the service they provided. 
NatWest have largely agreed with this version of events, but have said Agent A had already 
been engaged with other customers at the time he approached. It also said Agent As reason 
for leaving the floor was to visit the bathroom. 
Im sympathetic to Mr Ks feelings, and I acknowledge he feels Agent A profiled him in some 
way and that was the reason he left the banking hall, to avoid serving him. But Ive seen 
nothing to support the allegations hes made about the reason Agent A left, or anything in his 
testimony or the evidence provided that persuade me this is the most likely explanation. 
Taking Mr Ks version of events on face value, it seems he had to wait for a short time before 
being seen. NatWest has acknowledged things couldve been better for Mr K and awarded 
£30 in vouchers to apologise for how he felt.
In the circumstances, even if I agreed Person A couldve provided better service, which it 
seems NatWest has already acknowledged, I wouldnt look to award a sum above the offer 
and apology NatWest has already made. I say this in light of the fact Mr K was served 
shortly after and was satisfied with the agent he spoke to. For these reasons, Im not 
directing NatWest to do anything further.
Ive also considered everything else Mr K has told us, including his concerns about the way 
he subsequently handled his complaint. But these points havent changed my mind. I say 
this as complaint handling falls outside of the scope of the complaint I can consider.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman