DRN-2666235
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim for storm 
damage under her home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In February 2020, Ms B raised a claim to AXA for damage to her property. She said the 
damage was caused by a storm.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property to inspect the areas of damage. The 
adjuster concluded that the damage to the roof was due to a recent failed repair alongside a 
long-term deterioration of the roof, so they didnt think the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. And they said the ingress of water into the property had happened gradually over 
time, so they couldnt attribute the damage to a one-off storm either.
AXA declined the claim based on the loss adjusters report. Ms B disagreed. She said the 
recent repair was linked to a leak and had been effective in stopping further water ingress. 
And she said it was reasonable to agree the most recent ingress was as of a direct 
consequence of the storm.
AXA responded to Ms B and maintained its position to decline the claim. It said it couldnt 
consider the damage caused by water ingress further as Ms Bs policy didnt have accidental 
damage cover.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Ms B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They found AXAs 
decision to decline the claim was fair in the circumstances, as they said the damage couldnt 
be linked to a one-off event. And they concluded AXA had fairly relied on the exclusion for 
wear and tear in the policy terms. So they didnt think AXA needed to do anymore in regard 
to the claim.
Ms B disagreed. She asked if the complaint could remain open until she could provide a 
report from the builder who did the original repair. Our investigator explained this would be 
new evidence and as such AXA would need an opportunity to review the report first before 
our service could comment on the matter.
Ms B then asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the roof itself wasnt the cause of 
the ingress of water, and it was a direct result of water being driven in by the strong winds 
following the defeat of the repair.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether AXA has assessed Ms Bs claim fairly under the terms and 
conditions of her policy. And to do this I need to consider:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
And in order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions must be yes.
AXA has also relied on an exclusion in Ms Bs policy which states We will not pay for: 9 
Gradual deterioration/maintenance Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, 
depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs 
that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its 
contents. So Ill need to consider if AXA has shown this exclusion fairly applies too.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
Ms B has been consistent in her testimony that the damage was caused by a specific period 
of bad weather, and AXA hasnt disputed this. So, as this part of the complaint isnt in 
dispute, I accept there were storm conditions around the time set out in the claim.
Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
Ive considered the photos in the loss adjusters report and the list of damage thats 
happened. I can clearly see examples in the photos of the lifting of the patch repair on one 
corner, and of the subsequent water ingress to the property. So Im satisfied the damage 
being claimed for is typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
AXAs loss adjuster has said the main cause of damage was due to a natural deterioration 
and breakdown of materials on the flat felt roof. They said the internal water ingress and 
staining of the walls had happened gradually and over a period of time.
Ms B says the roof had been recently repaired and shown to be effective, so the storm 
caused the repair to fail and was therefore the main cause of the damage.
Ive carefully considered Ms Bs point, and I think the fact the storm caused the repair to fail 
isnt in dispute. But on balance I am more persuaded by the evidence in the loss adjusters 
report. I say this because I dont think an effective and lasting repair to the roof would have 
failed so soon after it was completed. Buildings are generally expected to withstand periods 
of bad weather and as such it would be reasonable to assume the patch repair wasnt 
entirely successful. This is supported by the fact the storm lifted the roof in this exact area, 
and therefore highlighted an existing issue with the roof.
With regard to the water ingress inside the property, Im persuaded the photos Ive seen 
demonstrate this has happened over a period of time. And Ive not seen anything which 
could reasonably attribute the damage to a single storm event. So I think AXA has relied on 
the general exclusion for gradual deterioration fairly here.
Ive considered if any of the damage in Ms Bs claim could be covered under another section 
of her policy. But Ms Bs policy doesnt provide cover for events such as accidental damage. And in any event, the exclusion AXA has relied on is a general exclusion that covers all 
sections of the policy. So I dont find any alternative here for this claim to succeed.
Ms B has raised a concern that she must submit data information requests in order to see 
certain information from AXA, whereas our service is able to access this information directly. 
I do understand her frustration here, and where we can, our service will share the relevant 
information that weve relied on to reach an outcome. I can see that our investigator did ask 
if we could share the loss adjusters report, but AXA wasnt happy with the format in which it 
was sent being shared externally. Instead it raised a data request on Ms Bs behalf to send 
her the relevant information for her claim. I find this reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, but Im satisfied AXA has declined her claim fairly 
based on the evidence its seen. So I wont require it to do anything further here. 
If Ms B still wishes to obtain a report from her builder following receipt of AXAs evidence, 
then this can be submitted to AXA for consideration. And if Ms B remains unhappy with 
AXAs decision following this, our service would consider this as a separate matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman