DRN-4072859
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr C missed a monthly payment on his finance agreement that he took 
out to pay the annual premium for his car insurance policy. UKI wrote to him asking him to 
pay the payment within 14 days or it would cancel the insurance policy. Mr C didnt do so, so 
UKI cancelled the policy. As Mr C had previously made a claim on his insurance policy, UKI 
said Mr C needed to pay the full annual premium.
Mr C called UKI after the policy was cancelled to pay the missed payment. He said hed 
been on holiday and hadnt received the letter UKI had sent. He asked UKI to reinstate the 
policy, but it wasnt willing to do so.
Our investigator thought UKI had acted unfairly in cancelling the insurance policy. She said it 
should have been aware that Mr C wasnt entitled to a premium refund. She thought 
cancelling an insurance policy should be a last resort  only after exploring other options 
available to support a consumer in financial difficulties. And she said cancelling the 
insurance policy in this instance had put Mr C in a worse position.
UKI maintained that the terms of the insurance policy entitled it to act as it did. And it also 
highlighted that Mr C had a poor payment history.
As UKI didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I think it would first be helpful to set out the respective contracts Mr C took out. He firstly took 
out a car insurance policy provided by UKI where he had to pay an annual premium. The full 
annual premium was due at the start of the policy, but Mr C wanted to pay in monthly 
instalments. To enable him to do so, Mr C also entered into a fixed sum loan agreement  
also provided by UKI. The finance agreement essentially paid the annual premium on Mr Cs 
behalf and Mr C then agreed to repay this finance over 12 months in line with the terms of 
the finance agreement.
UKI has cancelled the insurance policy because Mr C missed the September 2022 monthly 
payment. And its said the terms of the insurance policy entitled it to do so. I dont dispute the 
terms of the policy allowed UKI to cancel the insurance policy in these circumstances, but it 
needs to exercise that term fairly and reasonably. And, in thinking about this, Ive particularly 
thought about the purpose of this term.
Its important to note that Mr C was in breach of the terms of the finance agreement  not the 
insurance policy  when he failed to make his monthly payment. The FCA has set out in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) how it would expect finance providers to act where 
consumers fall into arrears  in particular in CONC 7.3. I would expect a finance provider to 
consider these options before immediately terminating a finance agreement.
UKI said that Mr C had a poor previous payment history which is why it went down the 
avenue it did and I recognise that. But I would still think, due to the significant implications of 
cancelling an insurance policy, cancellation should be a last resort and I would have 
expected UKI to have considered CONC 7.3 first. 
A finance provider will instruct the insurance provider to cancel the insurance policy to 
generate a premium refund which it will use to reduce the balance on the finance agreement. 
I think this is the purpose of the term allowing UKI to cancel the insurance policy. But in this 
case, UKI should have considered that Mr C had made a claim on the insurance policy. The 
terms of the policy set out that no premium refund is payable in these circumstances. This 
means that cancelling the insurance policy didnt reduce the amount Mr C owed on the 
finance agreement. It ultimately put him in a worse situation as he needed to pay the finance 
in full, but also needed to pay another annual premium to take out a new insurance policy. 
So I think it was unfair for UKI to cancel the insurance policy. And I think Mr C has unfairly 
lost out as a result as he had to pay to take out a new insurance policy which he wouldnt 
have had to do had UKI not cancelled the policy. So I think UKI should refund what Mr C 
paid for this policy. The investigator also thought UKI should pay £100 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Mr C and I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require U K Insurance Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. Remove all record of the policys cancellation from Mr Cs record;
2. Refund the amount Mr C can show he paid for the replacement policy plus 8% simple 
interest per year on this from when Mr C paid it until he gets it back. If UKI thinks that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
3. Pay Mr C £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman