DRN-2425976
The complaint
Ms E complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) declined a 
chargeback dispute.
  
What happened
In the summer of 2019 Ms E made four payments to a merchant that develops apps. 
Towards the end of the year, Ms E contacted Amex to raise a dispute about three of the four 
payments she made to the developer. Ms E says the product she paid for wasnt fit for 
purpose and the developer had asked for more money to complete the app. 
Amex raised three separate chargeback claims and temporarily credited the disputed 
payments to Ms Es account. Amex says that the merchant failed to respond to two out of 
the three disputes raised. But Amex says the merchant responded to one of the chargeback 
claims and defended it. As a result, Amex says it went on to take the disputed payment of 
£2,000 it had temporarily credited to Ms Es account back. 
Ms E complained but Amex didnt agree an error had been made. Amex said the dispute had 
been raised outside the relevant timeframes and that the merchant had defended the claim, 
saying no refund was due. 
Ms E forwarded her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Amex 
provided information about the different chargeback dispute codes it had used and why the 
claim wasnt successful. Our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator noted the 
merchant had asked for a substantial additional sum to complete the work required and that 
Ms E wasnt willing to invest further funds. The investigator didnt think Amex had used the 
correct chargeback reason when processing the dispute. The investigator upheld Ms Es 
case and asked Amex to pay her £2,000 plus £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Amex didnt accept and asked to appeal. It said the merchant had defended the claim which 
meant it wasnt successful. Amex repeated that the other two claims were successful 
because the merchant failed to respond to them. Amex accepted it wouldve been more 
appropriate to have raised the dispute on the basis that the goods received were not as 
described (code 4553). Amex said it went on to reassess the chargeback claim on that basis 
and thought the decision to decline it was justified. As Amex has asked to appeal, Ms Es 
case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms E has explained she raised chargeback disputes for the three payments because the 
product she ordered, an app, wasnt of sufficient quality and not what she had agreed with 
the developer. Amex has sent us details of the dispute Ms E raised that confirms she told it 
the product was of poor quality and the developer had asked for an additional £3,000 to 
complete the work required. I think its reasonable to say Amex shouldve used the most 
appropriate chargeback reason or code for the dispute. And Im not persuaded that 
processing the claim using the code goods and services not received was a reasonable 
approach. 
Ive looked at the evidence Amex supplied. Its clear the chargeback claim was raised using 
the goods and services not received code and thats the basis on which the merchant 
responded. Whilst I understand Amex said it later reconsidered the claim on the basis of 
goods or services was not as described or defective I havent seen anything that shows it 
asked the merchant to consider it in the same way. We dont know what the merchant 
wouldve said if the claim was raised on the most appropriate basis. 
I also note Amex has said the other two chargeback claims were raised on the goods and 
services not received basis but were successful. But the reason those cases were 
successful was because no response to them was received, not because they were 
defended by the merchant. 
Like the investigator, I dont think the chargeback dispute was handled correctly. I also agree 
that if the chargeback claim had been processed correctly it wouldve had a greater 
likelihood of success. Ive taken Amexs evidence into account, including the 
correspondence it provided to show the developer asked for a further £3,000 for work on the 
app. I think that indicates the app provided wasnt of the quality Ms E was expecting and 
required substantially more work to bring it to that point. 
I agree with the investigators view that this complaint should be upheld so Im going to tell 
Amex to refund the disputed £2,000 to Ms E. I can see the situation has caused Ms E some 
trouble and upset and has clearly been time consuming. As a result, Im also going to tell 
Amex to pay Ms E £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe 
Limited to refund the disputed £2,000 payment to Ms E and pay her £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman