DRN-2096608
The complaint.
Ms L complains that a finance agreement was misrepresented to her by Geraint Hill (Car 
Sales) South Wales Limited.
What happened
In March 2018 Ms L was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement.
Ms L says she thought she was entering into a hire purchase agreement. However, she later 
discovered that shed entered into a personal loan agreement.
Ms L complained to the dealership and asked to cancel the agreement.
In response, the dealership said it had discussed the finance proposal with Ms L and that 
she had been happy to proceed on the basis that the terms of the loan and the monthly 
repayments were the same as initially discussed.
Ms L was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was clear from the documents 
that the agreement was a fixed sum loan and said the dealership had done enough to make 
Ms L aware of the type of agreement she was entering.
Ms L didnt agree. She said shed made it clear to the dealership that she wanted a hire 
purchase agreement and that she hadnt been told at any point that she was entering into a 
fixed sum loan agreement. She said if shed wanted a loan, she couldve obtained one 
elsewhere at a lower interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that the agreement was misrepresented to Ms L, I would need to be satisfied 
that the dealership made an untrue statement of fact which induced Ms L to enter into the 
agreement. So, Ive considered whether the dealership mis-advised Ms L about the type of 
agreement she was entering.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Ms L and the dealership. I wasnt 
present, so I cant be certain of exactly what was said. In circumstances like this, its 
necessary to look at the documents which came into existence at the time, as well as the 
wider circumstances of the case, to decide whats most likely to have happened.
I think its likely that there were discussions between Ms L and the dealership about a hire 
purchase agreement. However, Ive looked at the finance offer which came back from the 
finance provider, and I think it would have been clear to Ms L that it was a loan agreement.
The finance agreement itself states at the top of the first page that it is a fixed sum loan 
agreement. It includes information about the term and the level of monthly payments. 
The dealership has said that it discussed the finance agreement in detail with Ms L and that 
because the monthly payments and the term were in line with Ms Ls requirements, she was 
happy to proceed.
I can see that Ms L has signed the finance agreement and in doing so has agreed to be 
bound by the terms and conditions. I would have expected Ms L to have read the agreement 
before signing it, and Im of the view that if she had done so, she would have known that it 
was a fixed sum loan agreement.
I dont doubt that Ms L would have preferred a hire purchase agreement. However, if she 
had wanted a hire purchase agreement to the exclusion of all other types of agreement, I 
would have expected her to check the documentation very carefully to make sure that it 
suited her requirements. And as Ive said, if Ms L had read the documentation, I think she 
would have known that the agreement was a fixed sum loan agreement. Ultimately, if Mrs L 
hadnt been happy to proceed with the agreement, I dont think she would have signed it.
Ive taken into account what Ms L has said about not being advised that the agreement was 
a fixed sum loan. But I think the type of agreement tis clear and theres no evidence that the 
dealership advised Ms L that it was a hire purchase agreement, so I cant say that an untrue 
statement of fact was made. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
the agreement was misrepresented to Ms L. So, I wont be asking the business to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman