DRN-4174497
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with charges for damage to a car, that he was invoiced for at the end of a 
hire agreement provided by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc  trading as Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions (Novuna).
What happened
In April 2018 Mr J acquired a car using a hire agreement. The agreement was initially taken 
over 48 months. 
In January 2023 the car was returned and an inspection took place. This inspection noted 
the following damage and charges, which Mr J was later invoiced for:
Area Charge
Front alloy right  corrosion/rust £65
Locking wheel nut - missing £47.12
Front alloy left  scuffed/spoke damage £65
Front door left - dent £60
Sill panel left  scratched through paint £75
C post left - scratched £75
Sill panel right  scratched through paint £75
Mr J was unhappy with the charges and complained to Novuna.
Novuna issued its final response in March 2023. This said, in summary, that the charge for 
the missing locking wheel nut was being removed as this item had been returned to the car. 
But, it said the damage Mr J had been charged for all fell outside of fair wear and tear 
guidelines set out by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, it 
said these charges were still due. It said Mr J owed £415. 
Mr J referred the complaint to our service. He said, in summary, that he accepted the 
charges for the wheels. But, he said it wasnt reasonable to charge for the other damage. He 
said scratches to the car were miniscule and could only be seen at extremely close range. 
He said any potential buyer would be unlikely to see the scratches. And he said due to the 
value of used cars going up, Novuna wouldnt lose out when the car was sold.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, she said all the disputed damage fell outside of the BVRLA guidelines. 
And she said what Mr J said about the value of the car didnt change her opinion.
Mr J disagreed. He said the scratches would have no adverse effect on the value of the car. 
And he said Novuna should provide clear evidence they had the damage repaired.
Our investigator explained Novuna didnt need to have the damage repaired to charge Mr J 
for it. And she said she still thought the charges were reasonable.
Mr J remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr J complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr J complaint against Novuna.
Ive firstly considered if Novuna could charge Mr J for damage to the car. Looking at the 
terms and conditions of the hire agreement Mr J signed, these explained:
You will be responsible to us for any damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle 
otherwise than through fair wear and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to 
time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA)
Thinking about this, Im satisfied Mr J agreed to Novuna charging him for damage that falls 
outside of the BVRLAs guidelines.
So, what I need to consider in this case is whether the car had damage when it was returned 
that fell outside of what the BVRLA considers fair wear and tear.
As Mr J confirmed to both Novuna and our service that he accepts the damage to the wheels 
and associated charges, I dont need to consider these further. Ill think about the other 
areas in turn.
Sill panels and C post
In relation to scratches, the BVRLA states:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
Looking at the photos from the inspection, I can see scratches to both sills that have gone 
through the paintwork. I appreciate Mr Js frustration here and acknowledge the scratches 
are reasonably short in length. But, the guidance above is quite clear and Im satisfied this 
damage falls outside of fair wear and tear.
The photo of the C post shows several larger, obvious scratches that have very clearly gone 
through the paint. So, this also falls outside of fair wear and tear.
In general terms, I also disagree with how Mr J has described this damage. I dont agree this 
could only be seen under a microscope or if eyes were extremely close to the car. And, 
given these are painted panels, the fact the damage couldnt be seen with the doors closed 
doesnt mean the guidance shouldnt apply.
Front door dent
In relation to dents, the BVRLA guidance states:Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Looking at the relevant photos here, I accept the dent is likely smaller than 15mm. But, Im 
satisfied it has quite clearly broken the paint surface. So, it follows Im satisfied this also falls 
outside of fair wear and tear.
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied Novuna were entitled to charge Mr J for any damage outside of the 
BVRLAs guidelines. And Im satisfied all of the disputed damage did fall outside of this 
guidance.
Ive thought about everything else Mr J said in relation to the complaint. This includes his 
point that he believes Novuna might not have got the car repaired. But, as our investigator 
explained, it didnt need to do this in order to charge Mr J. 
Ive also considered that Mr J said the car may be worth more than Novuna expected when 
he handed it back. But, Ive seen no evidence of this. And, even if I accepted this was the 
case, there were no terms that would allow damages to be offset against any increase in 
value. So, these points dont change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman