DRN-2103597
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a medical assistance 
claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T holds travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account.
Miss T was on holiday abroad when she was unfortunately involved in a car accident, along 
with her partner. She suffered some injuries, including to her ankle, and received treatment. 
She got in touch with Avivas medical assistance team to make a claim on her policy and to 
let it know shed need help with returning home.
Aviva accepted Miss Ts claim for the expenses shed incurred. But it let Miss T know that an 
MRI scan on her ankle wouldnt be covered, as it wasnt a medical necessity. And it told her 
that future physio on her ankle and counselling for the effect the accident had had on her 
wouldnt be covered either, as these forms of treatment could be provided by the NHS.
Miss T wasnt happy with Avivas decision and she was also unhappy with the service shed 
received from its assistance team. Shed needed to contact Aviva several times to chase 
things up; Aviva had agreed to upgrade her flight ticket on her pre-booked flight but didnt 
originally agree to upgrade her partner; shed had to pay expenses to the medical facility 
upfront; and Aviva had booked a taxi to collect her from the airport on the wrong day.
Aviva acknowledged it couldve done more to keep in touch with Miss T. Itd added text 
messages to her partners claim file rather than her own. It said it couldve explained medical 
clearance to her more clearly. So it offered her compensation of £100. But it explained that 
itd offered to take over paying any future medical costs if the treating hospitals would accept 
a guarantee of payment and it gave Miss T an email address to send receipts to. It also said 
itd managed her expectations from the outset that physio and counselling wouldnt be 
covered.
Miss T was unhappy with Avivas offer and asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think £100 compensation was enough to recognise the trouble and 
upset Avivas handling of Miss Ts claim had caused her. She thought Aviva hadnt done 
enough to ensure Miss Ts repatriation was as smooth as possible and had caused her 
additional distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. So she thought Aviva 
should pay Miss T a total of £250 compensation. She thought Aviva had clearly explained 
the claims process to Miss T though. She felt the policy terms made it clear that treatment in 
the UK wouldnt be covered. And she didnt think shed seen enough evidence to suggest an 
MRI was medically necessary.
Aviva agreed to the investigators recommendations. Miss T didnt. She said she accepted 
she wasnt covered for an MRI or treatment in the UK. But during the first call, shed been 
told costs would be considered on a case by case basis. She shouldve just been told no. 
The accident had been traumatic and Aviva had made everything more complex. Shed had 
a problem boarding the flight as thered been an issue with the payment. She also said 
Avivas claims handling team had stopped responding to her in September 2019, so she 
hadnt been able to get her expenses refunded. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that I havent looked 
into Miss Ts new complaint issues about the lack of progress with the payment of her 
medical bills. Thats because this is a new complaint point, which Aviva hasnt had a chance 
to look into yet. It has now given Miss T a dedicated email address to use in the future, 
which will hopefully help to move her claim forwards. If Miss T remains unhappy with how 
Aviva has dealt with the reimbursement of her medical expenses, shell need to first make a 
complaint to Aviva about this point, before we can potentially help with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that £250 is fair compensation for the trouble 
and upset Miss T suffered as a result of Avivas handling of her claim. Ill explain why.
I understand Miss T and her partner were involved in a very upsetting and tragic accident. I 
appreciate this has had a real impact on Miss T and Im sorry to hear about what happened. 
In making my decision, I need to think about what happened and if Aviva exacerbated Miss 
Ts trouble and upset at an already very distressing time for her.
Miss T accepts that an MRI scan, physio and counselling arent costs which were covered by 
the policy. So I dont think I need to make a specific finding on whether Aviva shouldve 
agreed to pay for these costs. Miss T feels though that Aviva shouldve told her upfront that 
these costs werent covered. Ive looked carefully at Avivas claims notes and details of Miss 
Ts first notification of claim call to it. The claims handler appears to have told Miss T that 
physio tends not to be covered and that covering counselling costs was unlikely, but that 
they would ask and confirm. So I think the claims handler appropriately managed Miss Ts 
expectations from the start about the counselling and physio costs. 
I dont think Aviva wouldve been in a position to make a fair decision about whether to pay 
for an MRI until its medical team had had a chance to look at the medical evidence and see 
if it was a medical necessity. Ive looked at the treating doctors report and he stated that an 
MRI would be helpful. I dont think this suggests though that having an MRI was an 
emergency or medically necessary. And the treating doctor appears to have managed Miss 
Ts injuries without the need for an MRI. Based on what Ive seen, I think Aviva handled this 
part of the claim fairly.
Having carefully considered the notes, I also think Aviva was clear about the claims process 
and what needed to happen in order for claims to be paid. Miss T made the claim on 31 
December 2018. Within three hours, Aviva had explained that it could either deal directly 
with the medical facility if it was happy to do so or Miss T could forward bills to it. I think this 
was a reasonable timeframe for response. Miss T had already been discharged from the 
treating facility by the time she made the claim, so it was inevitable that she wouldve had to 
pay some of the costs herself before she could look to claim them back.
However, its clear that Aviva did make some errors in the way it handled Miss Ts claim. I 
can see from the notes that there was a period of some days when Aviva didnt keep Miss T 
updated about what was happening or what arrangements were being made for her 
repatriation. She needed to chase Aviva at times for updates. Given the nature of her injuries, it mustve been very distressing when Aviva told Miss T that 
while her seat had been upgraded, her partners hadnt. While this was rectified shortly 
afterwards and Miss Ts partner was ultimately upgraded; I dont doubt this caused her 
further upset. It mustve been frustrating to hear from the taxi company that Aviva had 
booked a taxi to collect her from the airport on the wrong day  although Im pleased to hear 
Aviva did rearrange the booking and Miss T was picked-up as planned. And its unfortunate 
there were some issues around the payment of the upgrade, which Miss T learned about 
when she checked-in. Im pleased this didnt impact on her flight home and she was able to 
travel as planned in an upgraded seat.
Overall, I agree with the investigator, given the traumatic nature of the car accident and Miss 
Ts distress at this time, Avivas handling of her medical assistance claim caused further 
trouble and upset. I think Aviva couldve done more to ensure it kept Miss T in the loop and 
that the claim ran smoothly. So I agree that a total of £250 compensation feels fair and 
reasonable for the additional distress and inconvenience Avivas handling of the claim 
caused Miss T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Miss T a total of £250 compensation. If its already 
paid Miss T the £100 its previously offered, it may deduct this amount from the settlement.
Aviva must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss T 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman