DRN-3569572
The complaint
Mr A complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) wouldnt provide him with 
appliance insurance at the price it quoted.
What happened
Mr A had appliance cover with D&G. He bought a new TV and asked D&G to provide an 
insurance quote. It quoted over £5 per month and said the offer would be available for 30 
days. Mr A called back the same day and asked for cover at a reduced rate for loyal 
customers. D&G quoted a price of £4.05 per month and again said the quote would be valid 
for 30 days.
Mr A called back the following month to buy the insurance, quoting the reference number it 
had provided, but D&G told him the quote had expired. Mr A complained because he had a 
letter saying the quote was valid until that day.
D&G didnt have a record of saying the quote was valid to a specific date and it told Mr A it 
couldnt provide the same priced policy. Although D&G looked for new quotes, Mr A 
remained unhappy. He didnt think D&G handled the quotation process well. Mr A said its 
agents were rude to him; didnt get back to him when they said they would, and incorrectly 
told him D&G no longer provided insurance for TVs.
Our investigator upheld part of Mr As complaint. He didnt think D&G had done anything 
wrong regarding the quote because it had expired when Mr A tried to accept it. However, our 
investigator didnt think D&G had provided a good enough standard of customer service 
because its agent had spoken rudely to Mr A when he tried to understand why the quote was 
no longer available. Our investigator recommended that D&G pay £125 compensation to Mr 
A for the shortfalls in customer service, and the inconvenience and distress he experienced 
during the quotation process. But he didnt think that D&G needed to do any more about the 
expired quote.
Mr A didnt agree. He agreed £125 was reasonable for the service shortfalls but he thought 
D&G should compensate him £500. He later accepted that £125 was enough providing the 
quoted price was agreed.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Policy quote
The main issue is that Mr A doesnt think the quote D&G gave him had expired when he tried 
to accept it. D&G said the quote was valid for 30 days and Mr A called on day 35.
Ive listened to the call recording from 3 December when D&G quoted the price of £4.05 per 
month, which is the offer Mr A wanted to accept. The agent clearly states the quote would be 
available for 30 days and Mr A called to accept on 7 January. So, on the face of it, it seems 
Mr A was too late, and D&G wouldve been correct to say the offer had expired.
However, when Mr A called on 7 January to accept the offer, he provided a reference 
number which wasnt given to him on 3 December. Looking at the records D&G provided, Mr 
A made five further calls to it between 3 December and 7 January. I asked D&G for the call 
recordings and noted that on 13 December its agent told Mr A he had until 7 January to 
accept the policy at £4.05 per month.
In light of that evidence, D&G offered to provide Mr A with the policy free of charge for 12 
months, at the end of which he could cancel or seek a renewal quote. Mr A was made aware 
of the offer, but he declined it and asked again for £500 compensation.
Having considered the evidence, its clear D&G made mistakes regarding the availability of 
the appliance policy at the quoted price. But Im satisfied that its offer to provide the policy 
free of charge was fair because it put Mr A in a better position than if it had sold him the 
policy at the quoted price. For that reason, Im minded to require D&G to honour its offer to 
provide the TV cover free of charge for 12 months, should Mr A wish to accept it. 
Compensation
Mr A complained about the way D&G treated him when he challenged it about the quote 
expiry date. I listened to the call and agree that D&G didnt treat Mr A as well as it shouldve 
done. I also note that D&G gave Mr A incorrect and confusing information about the products 
it offered, and it failed to call him when it said it would. D&G accepted that Mr A had 
experienced poor service and agreed to the payment recommended by our investigator. 
Initially, Mr A accepted the compensation of £125 provided D&G sold him the policy for 
£4.05 per month. He has since asked for £500. Having considered the evidence, and given 
that D&G has offered the policy free of charge, Im satisfied that £125 compensation is fair in 
the circumstances. I see no reason to ask D&G to pay more than that.
I said I was intending to require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
honour its offer to provide Mr A with the TV insurance policy free of charge for 12 
months, should he wish to accept it, and
pay him £125 compensation for the mistakes it made, for providing inaccurate 
information and for the service shortfalls.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
D&G accepted my provisional decision.
Mr A responded to say that he already has cover for his TV with another company, so he 
wants me to increase the compensation.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint for the same reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision.
I understand that Mr A wouldve wanted to find TV insurance cover with another business. 
But D&Gs offer of free cover for a year is still available to him. If Mr A chooses to accept 
D&Gs offer, he wouldnt also need to pay for TV cover elsewhere. So, he can still benefit 
from D&Gs offer of free cover. As I think its offer puts matters right, I see no reason to ask 
D&G to pay more compensation than already proposed.
Overall, Im satisfied that D&Gs offer of free cover and the proposed compensation of £125 
is fair and reasonable settlement of Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr As 
complaint and Domestic & General Insurance Plc must:
honour its offer to provide Mr A with the TV insurance policy free of charge for 12 
months, should he wish to accept it, and
pay him £125 compensation for the mistakes it made, for providing inaccurate 
information and for the service shortfalls.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman