DRN-3463202
The complaint
Mrs F says her bank card, and a number of replacements, provided by TSB Bank plc have 
failed to work in different ATMs.
What happened
Mrs F started having problems using her card to withdraw money from ATMs in May 2021. 
At times, in a range of ATMs, her card would not work. In July 2021 TSB looked into this and 
made a payment of £100 to recognise the inconvenience this had caused. But it seems the 
issue was not thoroughly investigated and resolved as subsequent cards also failed to work. 
When this happened replacements were ordered. 
The problem continued and when another replacement card was ordered in January 2022 
we arranged for Mrs F to meet with TSB and try the new card together in a branch. The 
problem remained as whilst Mrs Fs new card worked in some devices at the bank, it was 
rejected by the ATM outside the branch. This allowed TSB to conclude that Mrs Fs profile 
was working correctly, and the card was properly linked to her account  but it didnt identify, 
or explain to Mrs F, what the issue was. When our investigator issued his view Mrs F had 
been waiting for the branch to get back in touch for over three weeks.
Mrs F explained she has some mobility issues and having to travel by bus to her nearest 
branch (a more local one closed recently) is not easy for her. She wanted to be able to use 
her card in her local post office and it was being rejected there. The problem has also led to 
her having to postpone holidays and being stuck in places where the ATM would not work 
for her.
Our investigator recommend Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld and she should receive an 
additional £100 compensation given how long the issue had now been ongoing. He said 
TSB had made a number of suggestions as to the cause of the problem, but it still seemed 
somewhat unresolved. So he also instructed TSB to work to ensure Mrs Fs card was fully 
operational by 1 April 2022.
TSB disagreed with this assessment. It said £100 was the appropriate level of 
compensation. It could see an ATM only card was ordered in October 2021 that Mrs F used 
successfully at the post office, as was the replacement issued previously in August 2021 
until it later stopped working. Similarly there are ATM transactions from different machines in 
December 2021 and January and February 2021. Its technical card team is satisfied the 
problems are not caused by TSB, but maybe are linked to how the card is stored/used. It 
said it would liaise with its card services team who could run checks on the card. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mrs Fs card facilities have not been working consistently as she is 
entitled to expect. And it still seems TSB has not completed an exhaustive investigation that 
has found the route cause(s). In response to the investigators assessment it referenced 
checks that could be done but it has failed to respond to the investigators follow up 
questions and correspondence about this. 
However, given it seems that Mrs F is no longer having problems with her card  and hasnt 
for several months now - I dont think it is necessary to investigate further at present. If this 
changes, or isnt the case, TSB must promptly carry out the checks that it said its card 
services team could complete in its email of 28 February 2022.
With regards the compensation that remains in dispute, I find that a total payment of £200 is 
fair. To reach this conclusion I have considered the time the issue has gone on for and the 
impact it has had on Mrs F given her personal circumstances. TSB argues only the impact 
should be considered, not the customers demographics but I disagree. We would always 
consider the individual circumstances of a customer as the impact of an event can vary 
significantly based on personal circumstances. In this case I think Mrs F endured a 
significant level of inconvenience over a number of months. 
Putting things right
TSB should now pay Mrs F the additional £100 compensation.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Fs complaint. TSB Bank plc must put thing right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman