DRN-3683447
The complaint
F complains Amtrust Europe Limited hasnt provided a fair settlement for a claim it made on 
its landlord insurance policy.
Mr M and Mrs R have brought the complaint on behalf of F, which is their business. 
What happened
F owns a property that was let to a tenant. Mr M and Mrs R made a claim on behalf of F, 
after it was found the tenant had damaged the property to facilitate the cultivation of 
cannabis. Amtrust appointed a loss adjuster.
Mr M obtained two quotes from different contractors. The lowest quote was for £20,230, and 
this was dated November 2021. The loss adjuster settled the claim for £17,500 (less the 
£500 policy excess). The settlement was agreed in February 2022 (Mr M signed the 
acceptance form on behalf of F), and it was paid by Amtrust in March 2022. 
Mr M went on to obtain a third quote from a different contractor, which was higher than the 
first two quotes.
In April 2022, Mr M complained the claim settlement wasnt enough for the repairs. He said 
the cost of materials and labour had increased. He also complained that Fs loss of rent 
hadnt been paid.
Amtrust noted that in March 2022, Mr Ms contractor had offered to honour its original quote 
for 28 days. Therefore, Amtrust wasnt prepared to increase the settlement. Amtrust said it 
would consider the loss of rent part of the claim, but Mr M would need to provide the loss 
adjuster with documentation to evidence the loss.
Mr M and Mrs R were unhappy with Amtrusts response, so they contacted our service. Mr M 
also noted the loss adjuster had since told him the loss of rent wasnt covered. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint about the buildings settlement, but she didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. She didnt consider the loss adjusters loss of rent claim 
decision because she thought Amtrust should respond to that part of the complaint first. 
Mr M and Mrs R disagreed with our investigators outcome, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
Mr M provided an email exchange with Amtrust, showing he attempted to complain about the 
loss of rent claim decision, but Amtrust simply referred him back to our service noting we 
would be considering the matter as part of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint in part. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The buildings claim settlement
Amtrust settled the claim based on the most competitive quote, less deductions for the items 
the loss adjuster said werent covered. Ill go on to consider whether those deductions were 
fair, but as a starting point, Amtrust was entitled to settle the claim based on the lowest 
quote submitted by F. 
Whilst the quote was obtained in November 2021, Im satisfied it was still valid when Amtrust 
confirmed on 4 March 2022 it would be releasing the payment. I say this because Ive seen 
the contractor confirmed to Mr M in writing, on 7 March 2022, that whilst it couldnt reduce 
the November 2021 quote, it would honour the quote for a further 28 days. If Mr M didnt 
accept the quote within that 28-day timeframe, and the quote has since risen, thats not 
something I can hold Amtrust responsible for.
Ill turn now to the loss adjusters deductions, from the £20,230 quote.
The loss adjuster deducted a £500 policy excess. Ive seen from the policy schedule that a 
£500 excess applied to claims for malicious damage by tenants. As such, Im satisfied the 
deduction was in-line with the policy terms. Once the excess is deducted from the quote, 
the remaining balance is £19,730.
The loss adjuster explained to Amtrust that a broad adjustment was made for various items 
on the quote that werent related to the malicious damage. The only deducted items that 
were broken down on the quote were the front and back doors, for £1,920. Those doors 
were damaged by the police to gain entry.
Because the front and back doors werent maliciously damaged, they arent covered under 
the malicious acts or vandalism coverage.  
The policy does have an emergency services coverage. That covers damage caused by the 
police when gaining access due to their concern for the tenants welfare, or to mitigate loss 
or damage to the property caused by an insured event. Because the police didnt force entry 
due to the tenants welfare or to mitigate loss or damage to the property, the doors arent 
covered under the emergency services coverage either. To be clear, the reason for the 
forced entry wasnt to mitigate loss or damage to the property, but rather, it was to 
apprehend the tenant and seize the drugs.
I havent seen any other coverages that would apply to the damage caused to the front and 
back doors. Therefore, Im also satisfied the £1,920 deduction was in-line with the policy 
terms.
Once the £500 excess has been deducted from the £20,230 quote, and a further £1,920 for 
the front and backs doors, the remaining balance is £17,810. Amtrust only paid £17,000. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Amtrust has shown why the further £810 deduction was fair.
The loss adjuster made deductions for the ceilings and walls in the master bedroom, landing, 
and living room. However, whilst I accept there was likely some damage in those areas that 
didnt relate to the malicious damage, the loss adjusters reports note those ceilings and 
walls would need reinstatement as a result of the malicious damage.
The loss adjuster also made deductions for the loft, in relation to removing materials installed 
by the tenant for the cultivation of cannabis; replacing struts; and fitting new loft insulation. 
However, those items appear to relate to the malicious damage, and the loss adjusters 
reports note extensive malicious damage in the loft.The loss adjuster also made deductions for electrical work in the kitchen and bathroom. 
However, the loss adjusters reports note a complete rewire is required. This is also 
supported by the quotes and a letter from one of the contractors who quoted.
I accept the loss adjuster took a broad approach when adjusting the settlement in an attempt 
to be fair. But based on the information presented, Im not persuaded deductions beyond the 
policy excess and external doors should apply.
Therefore, I intend to decide Amtrust should pay a further £810 for the buildings settlement. 
It would also need to pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from 4 March 2022 
to the date of settlement.
The loss of rent claim
Amtrust has provided us with its loss adjusters reasons for declining the loss of rent part of 
the claim. Having considered those reasons, along with the policy terms, Im persuaded the 
loss of rent was fairly declined. Ill explain why.
If the property becomes unoccupied and cant be let as a result of an insured event, the 
policy covers the rent the tenant would have paid (subject to the policy limit). The policy 
excludes any loss of rent arising from the tenant leaving without giving notice.
Malicious damage is an insured event. However, Fs property didnt become unoccupied as 
a result of the malicious damage. The tenant didnt leave and stop paying rent because the 
damage made the property uninhabitable. But rather, the tenant left without giving notice, 
because they were caught undertaking an illegal activity. So, in view of the cover and the 
exclusion set out above, Im persuaded Fs loss of rent during the repairs isnt covered.
I accept a new tenant may have been found if it werent for the malicious damage, but that 
doesnt change the circumstances of the outgoing tenants departure or what Ive said 
above.
If Amtrust had unfairly delayed the claim settlement, there may be an argument that it should 
be liable for any resulting financial losses. However, Ive not seen that Amtrust unreasonably 
delayed the settlement. Mr M submitted two quotes by mid-December 2021. Following some 
clarification about the work, and a letter from one of the contractors in mid-January 2022, 
the settlement was agreed in mid-February 2022. Amtrust acted on the loss adjusters 
agreed settlement within two weeks. Overall, I dont consider those timescales to be 
unreasonable.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr M made the following submissions:
- Mr M provided an email from the police which confirmed they were called to the 
property by a neighbour due to a broken window. Someone was arrested on 
suspicion of burglary, after being caught running away. The police found the 
cannabis farm when inspecting the property. 
- Mr M explained the tenant hasnt been found by the police. He asked whether the 
loss of rent should be covered on that basis.
- Mr M said that whilst the broken doors had been reinforced by the tenant for security 
reasons, they werent forced by the police. He also provided emails from the police 
which confirmed it hadnt forced the doors to gain entry. The police noted it had 
drilled and replaced the locks.- Mr M again provided the email dated 7 March 2022, which was from the contractor 
who provided the lowest quote. The email confirmed the quote would be honoured 
for a further 28 days. Mr M also provided a letter dated September 2022, which was 
from the contractor who provided the second lowest quote. The letter explained the 
contractors original quote would require adjusting to reflect increased material and 
labour costs. Mr M says its impossible to get the work done for the settlement 
amount.
Amtrusts loss adjuster also responded to my provisional decision. The loss adjuster set out 
why it considered the adjustment to the settlement to be reasonable, with reference to the 
electrics, ceilings, master bedroom walls, and loft flooring and insulation. 
Ive since responded to Amtrust, clarifying why I thought those items should be covered. 
I also explained that in view of the police emails, I cant reasonably conclude the police 
damaged the external doors. But rather, on balance, Im persuaded the external doors 
were maliciously damaged by the tenant in their attempts to add additional security. 
I told Amtrust Im now persuaded it should settle the remainder of the £20,230 quote, plus 
pay 8% simple interest per annum on the remaining amount, from 4 March 2022 to the date 
of settlement. Amtrust noted it hadnt previously seen the police emails, but it said it didnt 
disagree with my assessment. Amtrust also highlighted theres a £20,000 policy limit for 
damage caused by a person lawfully in the building (such as a tenant).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill focus on the points made in response to my provisional decision.
The buildings claim settlement
Mr M points towards a letter from the contractor who provided the second lowest quote. The 
letter explains the quote will need to be adjusted, to reflect the material and labour cost 
increases since the original quote was provided some nine months earlier.
However, as explained in my provisional decision, Amtrust was entitled to settle the claim 
based on the lowest quote submitted by F. Importantly, the quote was still valid when the 
claim settlement was paid. Its not clear why F chose not to use that contractor before its 
quote expired. But in any event, thats not something I can hold Amtrust responsible for.
Therefore, the only question to be answered is whether the deductions from the lowest quote 
were fair and reasonable. As noted above, Ive already discussed this matter with Amtrust, 
and it doesnt disagree that the quote should now be paid in full, subject to the policy limit.
The lowest quote was £20,230. Once the £500 excess is deducted, the claim settlement due 
is £19,730  which is below the £20,000 policy limit. 
£17,000 has already been paid. Therefore, to settle this complaint, I find Amtrust should pay 
a further £2,730, plus 8% simple interest per annum from 4 March 2022 to the date of 
settlement.To be clear, the 8% simple interest isnt subject to the policy limit. The interest payment isnt 
being made under the policy terms, but rather, its a payment to reflect the fact F has been 
deprived of the £2,730 since the claim was originally settled.
The loss of rent claim
Whether or not the tenant has been caught by the police doesnt impact the loss of rent part 
of the claim. As per the policy terms, for loss of rent to be covered, the property must have 
become unoccupied as a result of an insured event. Furthermore, the policy excludes any 
loss of rent that arises from the tenant leaving without giving notice.
Importantly, Fs property didnt become unoccupied as a result of the malicious damage. In 
other words, the tenant didnt leave because the damage made the property uninhabitable. 
But rather, the tenant left without giving notice, because the police had discovered their 
illegal activities. As such, I remain persuaded the loss of rent was fairly declined.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. My final decision is Amtrust Europe Limited should:
- pay F a further £2,730 for the buildings settlement, plus 8% simple interest per 
annum from 4 March 2022 to the date of settlement.
If Amtrust considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell F how much it has taken off. If requested, Amtrust should also 
provide F with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so it can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R, 
on behalf of F, to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman