DRN-2657047
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc cant find a record of his credit card account 
and didnt provide information under a Subject Access Request (SAR). 
Mr P is represented by Mr M. 
What happened
Mr M, on Mr Ps behalf, previously complained to Capital One about Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI). He said Mr P held an account with them between 2008 and 2010. 
Capital One said they couldnt find any details of an account in Mr Ps name.
 
Mr P then asked Capital One for a SAR. Capital One responded to say they couldnt provide 
any information because, again, they couldnt locate details of Mr Ps account. They said 
while Mr P may well have held an account with them around the time he says he did  if that 
account is now closed and did not have PPI on it, the information relating to it has likely been 
deleted. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this. He said he wanted an apology and compensation of £200 for 
the time, inconvenience and costs incurred in speaking to Capital One about this issue. So 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. He said, in summary, he was satisfied 
based on the evidence hed seen that Capital One had conducted appropriate searches for 
Mr Ps account. That those searches had turned up no record of an account in Mr Ps name 
and so, in those circumstances he didnt think it was unreasonable for Capital One to have 
said they couldnt provide any information under the SAR.
Mr M, on Mr Ps behalf didnt agree. He said he thought Capital One hadnt provided 
evidence of the searches that it had done and wanted to see the information we had about 
this. Which our investigator shared with him. 
As Mr P didnt agree, and at Mr Ms request, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role at the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider whether there has been a 
breach of data protection law  thats a matter for the Information Commissioners Office. 
What Im considering here is whether Capital One have done what Id expect when they 
received Mr Ps request for a SAR. 
Capital One have provided screenshots to show that they searched their records using 
Mr Ps name, date of birth and postcodes (including a postcode for a previous address of 
Mr Ps). But can find no record of his account. So Im satisfied, based on the information Ive 
seen, Capital One have conducted appropriate searches.
 
Financial businesses are only usually required to keep information for six years  in this case 
Capital One said they mightve kept it for seven. But by the time Mr P first contacted 
Capital One about this account, it was already beyond the seven years Capital One say they 
were likely to have kept this information for. 
Since Capital One have no information about Mr Ps account  I dont think its surprising or 
unreasonable that theyve been unable to provide any information in response to Mr Ps 
SAR. 
I understand Mr Ps frustration. Hes certain he held an account with Capital One. And has 
provided a bank statement to show a payment was made to Capital One in 2010. But, other 
than showing a payment was made, there are no further details of the Capital One account 
the payment was made to on the statement. So I dont think theres anything more 
Capital One can do with this information to locate Mr Ps account. Especially since theyve 
said that if he did have one, information relating to it would likely have been deleted by now 
anyway. 
So I dont think its unreasonable theyve said they cant provide Mr P with any information 
under a SAR. Since I dont think Capital One has done anything wrong or treated Mr P 
unfairly, I dont agree that an apology or compensation is warranted.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman