DRN-3748995
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr T opened several accounts with Lloyds. He later received over £2,000 across a number 
of payments. He transferred this money between his accounts and spent the bulk of it in a 
large cash withdrawal and a large debit card transaction. This money was then found to be 
the proceeds of fraud.
Mr T said he was entitled to these funds as theyd come from a friend of a friend who hed 
never met, but had been talking to online. He said this person had been helping him trade in 
cryptocurrency. Mr T said they asked him to receive the money, withdraw it in cash, and 
send it back to them  though Mr T didnt have a way of sending cash to this friend as theyd 
never met in person, and he said he didnt know how he was going to send it on. Mr T kept 
the money even after he found out it came from a victim of fraud. He was unable to explain 
why he didnt send it back to the victim. He was unable to provide any evidence at all that 
this friend of a friend existed, nor evidence of what theyd spoken about.
Lloyds closed Mr Ts accounts and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T 
asked for a final decision, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Lloyds were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr T had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Lloyds did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill 
explain why.
The funds which Mr T received did not come from a friend, but from a victim of fraud. Mr T 
then benefitted from the proceeds of the fraud.
Mr T told Lloyds he was entitled to the money, but hes not been able to evidence this. 
Indeed, hes not been able to provide any substantial evidence to support his version of 
events at all. Theres nothing which substantiates what hes said about this friend of a friend, 
or what this person told him. And Mr T says hed been speaking to them online. So it would 
have been relatively straightforward for Mr T to show what was said, such as through 
message histories, emails, and so on. Yet hes not done so and says he cant do so. That 
makes it very difficult to support what he says happened.
Further, the payments Mr T received were not from an account in the name of the friend of a 
friend, nor anyone else he knew. And their reference was for bills, not anything to do with 
cryptocurrency trading. So it should have been clear to Mr T that this was not money he was 
entitled to. Yet he acted quickly to move it on and spend the bulk of it, in such a way that 
Lloyds could not recover most of the money for the victim.
Indeed, if Mr T had thought hed been sent the money to buy cryptocurrency, then it doesnt 
make sense why hed withdraw it in cash and make a large high-street purchase. I can see 
that he had made cryptocurrency payments in the past, so he knew how to do so, and he 
wouldve known that a cash withdrawal and high-street purchase is not the way to do it.
Similarly, Mr T says he thought the friend of a friend had sent him the money in order that 
Mr T would pass it back to them. But that doesnt make sense either  there wouldve been 
no point in sending Mr T money just so Mr T could pass it back to the same person. And 
since Mr T only knew this person online, he had no way of passing physical cash to them, 
and certainly no way of passing on a debit card purchase.
Then even once Mr T knew that the money was not due to him, and that it came from the 
victim of a crime, he still chose to keep it. He even asked Lloyds to let him have the rest of 
the fraudulent funds left in his account, before they passed it back to the victim. And Mr T 
still had the cash hed withdrawn with him, so he could have easily returned it to the victim, 
or passed it back to Lloyds and let Lloyds sort it out for him. But instead, he chose to keep 
the victims money for himself.
In summary, Mr T received the confirmed proceeds of fraud. He forwarded this money to a 
spending account and withdrew it, such that Lloyds could not recover the bulk of it. He then 
kept the victims money for himself and chose not to return it, even once he knew it was the 
proceeds of crime and even when the money was still available. Hes not been able to 
provide any evidence that he was entitled to the funds, nor any evidence to back up his 
testimony, even when such evidence would be straightforward to get.  His testimony has 
been unlikely and implausible. And Ive not seen any evidence which makes me think that 
Mr T was an unwitting participant in the fraud. Based on the evidence, circumstances, and 
the balance of probabilities, it is most likely that Mr T deliberately misused his accounts.
On that basis, I think it was fair that Lloyds closed Mr Ts accounts and registered the 
appropriate marker at CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Mr T to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman