DRN-4134032
The complaint
Mr G complains the Co-operative Bank Plc allowed an unknown third party to change his 
security details enabling them to make over £7,000 in fraudulent payments.
What happened
Mr G called the Co-operative Bank on 19 October 2022 to say hed received an email telling 
him that hed changed his security details. He said hed not done so. Mr G says the member 
of staff he spoke to didnt help and instead kept on saying that this was worrying. Mr G 
called again later on that day and says was told his accounts had been frozen and his card 
cancelled and that hed need to go to a branch to prove his identity. Mr G says he did so the 
following day. He says he subsequently checked his credit card account and saw £7,000s 
worth of transactions he didnt recognise. He reported these transactions as fraudulent.
The Co-operative Bank investigated the transactions that Mr G had reported as fraudulent 
and ultimately agreed to refund them. The Co-operative Bank did so on 29 November 2022. 
Mr G was, however, unhappy with the amount of time this took, saying that hed had to pay 
much higher monthly payments in the meantime as the transactions werent removed from 
his balance whilst the fraud was investigated. He ultimately complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and said that they didnt think the 
member of staff who changed Mr Gs security details should have passed the person whod 
called through security as theyd not followed the right process. In other words, they thought 
the Co-operative Bank could have done more to prevent Mr Gs credit card being used 
fraudulently. Our investigator also thought that the Co-operative Bank should have refunded 
the fraudulent transactions sooner. So, they recommended that the Co-operative Bank pay 
Mr G £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr G was happy with our investigators recommendations. The Co-operative Bank wasnt. It  
said that it didnt agree that its member of staff shouldnt have allowed the person who called 
through security saying that theyd followed the right process. The Co-operative Bank did, 
however, agree that it took too long to refund the fraudulent transactions. As the Co-
operative Bank didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, Mr Gs complaint was 
passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call that the fraudster in this case made to the Co-operative Bank in order 
to take over Mr Gs account. Ive also seen the processes that the Co-operative Banks staff 
are meant to follow when, for example, updating a customers security details. I dont think, 
given the number of times the fraudster got answers to basic questions wrong, and the 
nature of the call generally, that the member of staff should have passed the fraudster 
through security. The call as a whole should have caused the member of staff to question 
whether or not they were speaking to the genuine account holder. The Co-operative Banks 
processes make it clear that in such cases security should be failed  that callers shouldnt 
be given chance after chance to get answers to security questions right as thats exactly 
what fraudsters try to do  keep on giving answers until they guess correctly. In short, I 
agree with our investigator that the Co-operative Bank could have done more to stop Mr Gs 
account from being used fraudulently.
Ive also listened to the initial call between Mr G and the Co-operative Bank and this wasnt 
handled well either. The member of staff Mr G spoke to kept on saying that the notification 
hed received about his contact details having been changed was really concerning and 
appeared at times to not know what they should be doing next. In the circumstances, I can 
understand why Mr G felt they didnt help and why, if anything, the way the Co-operative 
Bank started dealing with this issue made matters worse rather than better.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator  given everything Ive just said  that this complaint should be 
upheld. I also consider the £400 in compensation recommended is fair and reasonable, and 
that theres no further steps I need to requite the Co-operative Bank to take given that it has 
refunded the transactions in question. So, thats the award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring the Co-operative Bank Plc 
to pay Mr G £400 in compensation in full and final settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman