DRN-3492117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that the early repayment charge (ERC) charged when they 
redeemed their mortgage with Santander UK Plc (Santander) was excessive.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage with Santander and in October 2019 they transferred to a new 
2-year fixed rate mortgage product which expired on 2 September 2021. They say that the 
pandemic caused a dramatic reduction in their monthly income and serious financial 
problems which resulted in them making the difficult decision to put their home on the market 
in February 2021. The sale date for the property was 23 July 2021 and Mr and Mrs G were 
unable to extend this due to being in a chain and not wanting to risk jeopardising the sale. 
When Mr and Mrs G contacted Santander for a redemption figure, they were advised that 
there would be an ERC and, as they werent buying another property, the mortgage couldnt 
be ported. When the mortgage was redeemed, they paid an ERC of just over £4,500. Mr and 
Mrs G say that whilst they appreciated that there would be a penalty fee of some sort, Mr 
and Mrs G say that the situation was not of their choosing and that there were only 42 days 
left of the fixed rate period and two mortgage payments of around £240 each left to pay at 
the time the sale went through. They therefore feel that the amount of the ERC was 
excessive and would like Santander to reduce this in light of their personal circumstances. 
They also say that the banks were meant to be more flexible and help struggling customers 
during the pandemic.
Santander says that the mortgage offer and terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage stipulate that an ERC is payable should they redeem their mortgage before the 
end date of 2 September 2021. It says that the ERC is an integral part of the pricing of a 
mortgage package and reflects the costs of guaranteeing the package benefits to the 
customer. The funds for providing fixed rate mortgages are secured on the wholesale money 
markets with a contract made for repayment on a set date. An early termination results in 
costs to Santander and the ERC is calculated to compensate it for anticipated losses in the 
event that a customer repays their loan early. 
Santander says that, although it appreciates that Mr and Mrs G redeemed their mortgage 
within the last two months of the fixed rate term, there is no provision in the mortgage offer 
or terms and conditions for the ERC to be waived or reduced in this scenario. When Mr and 
Mrs G contacted Santander asking if anything could be done about the ERC, it reminded 
them that they could repay up to 10% of the balance without incurring and ERC. They went 
on to make a capital repayment of around 10%on 12 July 2021 in order to reduce the 
balance. Santander maintains that it hasnt acted inappropriately and that the ERC was 
calculated correctly and in line with the agreed mortgage offer.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think it would be fair to expect Santander 
to waive or reduce the ERC and incur the costs or servicing its own borrowing. He therefore 
didnt recommend that Santander refund or reduce the ERC.
Mr and Mrs G disagree with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. They say 
that Santander has received far more financially than if the mortgage had been paid off on 
the agreed date and that the circumstances of the pandemic should be taken into account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules of mortgage regulation set out the requirements a lender needs to comply with 
when imposing ERCs. A lender is entitled to charge an ERC where a customer chooses to 
end a preferential interest rate early. However, in order to do so the ERC must be able to be 
expressed as a maximum cash value and be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a 
result of the customer repaying the amount due under the regulated mortgage contract 
before the contract has terminated. It goes on to explain that lenders dont have to calculate 
the ERC for each individual mortgage; a lender is entitled to calculate its pre-estimate based 
on the costs across a group of mortgages of the same type.
Santander has explained that, where a mortgage is terminated early, this results in it 
incurring costs so the ERC is calculated to compensate it for anticipated losses in the event 
that a customer repays their loan early. Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate 
individual losses as and when individual customers decide to terminate their contracts early. 
And it isnt possible to estimate, for any given individual, when or if they might do so. So 
Santander is allowed to estimate how many mortgages in the group will end early and 
apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. Across the group as a whole, the 
ERCs recovered should cover the costs incurred through early termination. That means for 
some individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be 
an under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
Mr and Mrs G have asked for the costs to be itemised but the particular costs of terminating 
their individual mortgage arent relevant either  since, as Ive set out above, the pre-
estimate is based on the average costs across a group of mortgages rather than the costs of 
each individual one ending early. Thats because it cant be predicted in advance whether, 
and if so when, an individual borrower might end their mortgage early  but it is possible to 
predict average customer behaviour across a broader group. This approach also gives 
certainty and allows the reasonable estimate to be expressed in the mortgage offer in a clear 
way as a cash sum. That in turn means that the borrower knows, before the mortgage is 
taken out, the likely costs of early termination  and can take that into account when 
deciding whether to take the fixed rate. 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer sets out that there is a fixed rate until 2 September 2021 and 
that there will be an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid on or before that date. It gives a cash 
value for the maximum ERC payable. Im satisfied that the ERC was set out clearly and 
prominently in the mortgage offer and I can see that those terms were accepted by Mr and 
Mrs G. Santander has applied the ERC in line with the terms of the mortgage offer.
Mr and Mrs G have raised the fact that they were only 42 days from their fixed rate ending 
so they think the ERC charged by Santander was excessive. They have also said that the 
new purchaser of their property took out a bigger mortgage with Santander so it would have 
made more money.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G may have been close to falling outside their fixed rate period 
and that the amount of the ERC appears out of proportion to the amount of payments that 
remained due under the fixed rate. However, the offer was clear about the amount of the 
ERC and when that would apply until. Unfortunately what proportion of the fixed rate period 
has passed isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated  nor is the actual cost to Santander 
of this individual mortgage being repaid at the exact time it was. Likewise, the fact that 
another party chose to take a mortgage with Santander isnt relevant to the calculation of the 
ERC. The rules only require Santander to make a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of 
the mortgage being repaid early across a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what Santander has done. And based on the information presented to me I consider it was 
reasonable for it to charge the ERC it did.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs G were in a difficult position because of the pandemic. 
Ordinarily they may not have been in a position where they chose to sell their home or could 
have waited until after the fixed rate period had ended, avoiding the ERC. Santander 
advised Mr and Mrs G that they could repay 10% of the mortgage without any ERC and I 
can see that they did this, saving around £500. I understand their frustration at the impact of 
the ERC during a difficult time. But I dont think that means Santander should fairly have 
waived the ERC, or otherwise made special arrangements for them. It wasnt responsible for 
their situation  and, importantly, Mr and Mrs G were aware of the ERC when they decided 
to go ahead with the sale of the property prior to the end of the tie-in period. Ultimately, 
Santander was entitled to charge the ERC when the mortgage came to an end and, whilst 
Mr and Mrs G were in a difficult situation, that doesnt mean that its fair to expect Santander 
to bear the costs of that.
Overall, I dont consider that the amount of the ERC was excessive and I dont consider it 
was unfair for Santander to apply the ERC in line with the agreement that Mr and Mrs G had 
entered into.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Santander UK Plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman