DRN-2033298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) has declined part of their 
subsidence claim made against their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held home insurance with Soteria and submitted a claim for subsidence in 
2017. The main property was unaffected, but they said there was damage to the stables, the 
barn and the hard-standings surrounding these outbuildings.
Soterias agent carried out an inspection and issued a report in September 2017 relating to 
the damage to the stables. That report suggested that the cause was likely to be some trees 
on a neighbouring property and suggested that further investigations take place. These were 
carried out and ultimately the neighbouring tress were removed. A period of monitoring was 
then undertaken to ensure there was no further movement.
Soteria instructed a second inspection and the report concluded that the damage to the barn 
floor and the hard-standings surrounding the two outbuildings was the result of poor 
construction work and ultimately the age of the floor which it believed was approximately 60 
years.
Following this, Soteria stated that it wasnt willing to carry out the repairs itself due to the 
condition of the stables and offered Mr and Mrs C just over £10,000 in settlement of the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with Soterias handling of the claim, including:
that Soteria hasnt accepted the claim in full based on its belief that the damage to 
the barn flooring and hard-standings have mainly been caused by wear and tear
that Soteria hasnt offered a reasonable settlement amount
that Soteria has refused to carry out the works using its own contractors, choosing 
instead to offer a cash settlement
that Soteria has refused to reimburse the costs they have incurred through using 
their own contractor
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that he didnt 
think Soteria had acted unreasonably in declining the claim. He thought it was fair for Soteria 
to cash settle the claim and that the offer made was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and Ill explain why.
There is no dispute that there has been subsidence in the outbuilding area of Mr and Mrs Cs 
property. The barn is situated next to the stables and Soterias expert has conceded that it is 
likely that the entire area was affected by subsidence caused be neighbouring poplar trees 
that have now been removed. But the policy states this policy does not insure loss or 
damage caused by depreciation, wear and tear, atmospheric or climatic conditions, or 
anything that happens gradually. So I have considered whether on balance I think the 
overriding cause of the damage to the barn floor and the hard-standings surrounding the 
outbuildings was subsidence or whether Soteria has shown it was more likely a gradually 
operating cause.
In this case there is a dispute between two of the experts  one acting for Mr and Mrs C and 
the other acting for Soteria. Where the parties disagree, I have reached a decision on 
balance, having considered the evidence put forward by both parties. 
Soterias expert states that the overriding cause of the damage to the barn flooring was wear 
and tear. He says that the flooring was cast in sections, which is poor practice for the type of 
base used for this structure and meant the flooring had a limited life span. As the base is 
believed to be around 60 years old, he says given its poor construction and designits 
lifespan was always going to be limited and as a result we do not consider there has been 
any financial loss for the very minor movement that may have occurred and that insurers do 
not have a liability to replace the barn. Having considered this report, I find it very 
persuasive, particularly given the attached pictures which show the sections of flooring in 
blocks that appear to have a significant amount of aged damage  suggesting that the 
explanation given in Soterias report is plausible.
In addition to this, Soterias engineer has suggested that the stable block has a concrete 
foundation 0.40m thick and founded between 0.20 to 0.40m below ground level. This is 
above the level of the concrete hardstanding, which it says indicates that the concrete slab 
for the stable block was constructed against the side of the concrete hardstanding and that 
the barn didnt use the same type of foundations  rather it says its likely the existing 
foundations were used.
Mr and Mrs C dispute this and have also instructed a third-party expert. He has referred to 
existing damage but has also suggested that core samples need to be taken and the 
concrete tested in order to establish whether the foundations are of similar constructions. He 
goes on to say that it would be unreasonable to exclude the barn floor from the claim given 
that the barns location is closer to the trees that caused the subsidence and the barn is 
likely built on the same ground.
Ive considered this report however it seems clear from that report that he believes some of 
the damage is from settlement and some is from subsidence. In his report he states that the 
barns walls exhibit no significant evidence of structural movement and in relation to the 
barn floor he says that there is evidence of settlement. However, Soteria has highlighted that 
if there was significant subsidence to this area, rather than just settlement and wear and 
tear, they would expect there to be damage to the barn itself.
Having weighed these reports up, I am satisfied that Soteria has satisfactorily evidenced that 
the overriding cause of the damage to the barn floor and hard-standings surrounding the 
barn was wear and tear, rather than subsidence. On balance I think Soteria has provided a 
reasonable explanation of why it believes the depths and construction of the concrete 
foundations are different in the stable block compared to the barn and external hard-standing. And the evidence from both parties seems to suggest that some of the damage 
was due to settlement that had happened over a period of time. So taking all of that into 
account, I dont think the conclusions Soteria has reached  that the flooring had a limited 
life span and the main cause of the damage was wear and tear, which has simply been 
highlighted by the subsidence to the area  are unreasonable. So it follows that I dont think 
they need to do anything further in relation to these two areas.
I did note that the third-party expert suggested further tests should be carried out and that all 
the areas of flooring were built around the same time  and therefore it would be fair for the 
insurer to cover all of it. Im not convinced by that argument or the reasons for it. I say that 
because his report also highlights existing damage to the floor of the barn caused by 
settlement. However if Mr and Mrs C choose to have these investigations carried out by an 
independent expert and they show that the concrete blocks are of the same construction 
then I would expect Soteria to reconsider the claim at that point. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that they would like Soteria to carry out the works to the stables 
rather than take the cash settlement Soteria has offered. Soteria has explained that the 
works that need to take place can only take place in conjunction with other works that arent 
covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs C appear to have plans to carry out further works 
beyond the scope of this claim and the experts for both parties have commented that a 
reasonable suggestion would be for the claim to be cash settled. So taking all of this into 
consideration, I dont think Soteria has acted unreasonably in suggesting a cash settlement, 
rather than carrying out the works to the area itself.
I have then gone on to consider the settlement figure Soteria has offered Mr and Mrs C and 
whether its a fair offer, given that the quotes it has received from Mr and Mrs C are 
significantly higher. 
The works listed in the quote provided by Mr and Mrs Cs representative arent works that 
Soteria believes to be necessary  Soterias quote is based on the stable walls being 
repaired rather than dismantled and rebuilt as it says was discussed during the site meeting. 
And Soteria also hasnt factored in the cost of decoration as it says the decoration was in a 
poor state of repair before the subsidence, so it doesnt think this should be included in the 
costs. It has then calculated its offer based on the lowest quote provided by Mr and Mrs Cs 
representative. And taking these items from the quote Mr and Mr C have provided, comes to 
around the same cost as the suggested settlement figure provided by Soteria. 
Mr and Mrs C havent provided me with any evidence that any of the individual costs are 
unreasonable  only that it believes the scope of the works arent sufficient. And having 
considered the points raised by Soteria, I havent seen anything to suggest thats the case, 
so it follows that I dont think Soteria needs to increase its offer at this time. However in this 
instance, as Soteria is choosing to cash settle the claim rather than carrying out the works 
itself, it should ensure that it is indemnifying Mr and Mrs C for their reasonable costs in 
repairing the stable block. And if Mr and Mrs C are able to provide it with evidence that a 
repair wouldnt be possible at a later date then it should reconsider this aspect of the 
complaint. However at this time, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs C have shown the agreed 
scope of works to be carried out is insufficient, so it follows that I dont think Soteria needs to 
increase its offer to include other items in the schedule of works.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative have also referred to a section of the policy wording which 
states that it wont cover drives unless the outbuildings are damaged at the same time and 
by the same cause. So it says that as the works to the hard-standing outside the stable 
block are a consequence of the damage caused by the subsidence, it should be covered. 
However, both reports I have seen reference the damage as being related to settlement. Mr 
and Mrs Cs report states damage to the hard-standings is in part symptomatic of shrinkage and part settlement. Mr and Mrs Cs policy provides a specific exclusion for subsidence 
relating to settlement and shrinkage. And as Ive explained above, I havent seen any 
satisfactory evidence that the overriding cause of the damage to this area was subsidence, 
rather than a gradually operating cause i.e. that the area had reached the end of its useful 
life. So on balance Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs C have shown that Soteria needs to 
include these works in the settlement figure offered.
Mr and Mrs C have also requested that their professional fees are covered. The policy 
covers the costs of fees incurred for certain professional services but specifically excludes 
fees incurred in preparing any claim. Mr and Mrs Cs representative states that his fees are 
professional fees that were incurred in order to challenge Soterias expert as to the cause of 
the damage. And Mr and Mrs C have also incurred costs in instructing their own report to 
dispute the findings of the insurer. 
However, while I dont doubt the professional qualifications of Mr and Mrs Cs representative, 
I dont think his services were necessary in progressing this claim and much of the work he 
has been carrying out appears to be representing Mr and Mrs Cs interests, which is akin to 
a loss assessor. And similarly the report they instructed appears to be in order to prepare 
their claim as they disagreed with the outcome reached by the insurer. So it follows that I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Soteria to cover the cost of the professional 
fees that have been incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman