DRN-4481937
The complaint
Mr C complains that Fund Ourselves Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Following review of this case, I issued a provisional decision on 12 November 2023 as I was 
inclined to reach a different outcome to the adjudicator. In my provisional decision, I set out a 
detailed background to this complaint and gave both parties two weeks to respond with 
further evidence or comments.
The key parts of my provisional decision are outlined below.
What happened
Fund Ourselves facilitated the lending of a loan for £300 to Mr C. The loan was an instalment loan 
repayable in four monthly instalments of £142.20.
When Mr C complained to Fund Ourselves about the loan, it didnt uphold his complaint and so he 
referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought Fund Ourselves did enough checks before lending and those checks showed 
Mr C could afford the loan, and so she didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The loan in question here was a short-term instalment loan. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner. That is to say Mr C should be able to repay his loan without undue 
difficulties - while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. These checks could take into
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Fund Ourselves should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. As there was only one loan lent here, there wasnt 
an established pattern of borrowing from Fund Ourselves.
Fund Ourselves has said it asked Mr C about his monthly income and expenses before lending. It 
said Mr C declared his income as £1,300 and his monthly expenses as £345.
Fund Ourselves has also provided the results of its search into Mr Cs credit history at the time of the 
loan. Fund Ourselves performed an electronic verification of Mr Cs declared income, this suggested 
the income he declared was broadly accurate.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Fund Ourselves reacted to the results of some its checks. The 
results of Fund Ourselves credit search showed Mr C had at least four other short-term loans 
outstanding and that he was paying a number of other lenders including other high-cost credit 
lenders.
The results of that search suggest Mr C was paying over £2,000 towards his credit commitment. This 
is significantly more than his declared income and meant he didnt have the capacity to afford the 
repayments of this loan as he was already financially overstretched.
It was obvious Mr Cs outgoings were higher than what he declared, and his credit file suggested he 
was reliant on credit. Fund Ourselves would have seen this and in the circumstances, it shouldnt 
have lent to Mr C as he couldnt sustainably afford further credit.
In the circumstances, Fund Ourselves shouldnt have approved the credit for Mr C. As it has approved 
credit when it shouldnt have it needs to put things right.
The time for responses has now passed and neither party has provided further comments 
and evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reconsidering all the evidence and arguments in this case, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions reached in my provisional decision.
Fund Ourselves approved credit for Mr C when it ought to have known he couldnt afford to 
repay it without suffering further financial detriment.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Fund Ourselves should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not approved this credit for Mr C, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question.
For example, having been declined this credit Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, the 
information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or ought to 
have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to now 
accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly 
conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to 
lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Fund Ourselves liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
To put things right, Fund Ourselves should:
Refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Fund Ourselves to take off tax from this interest. Fund Ourselves 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Fund Ourselves Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman