DRN-2905237
Complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) moved to a new more 
expensive overdraft pricing structure.
Background
In August 2017, Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Mr and Mrs M complained saying these changes now meant they were 
being charged an excessive amount for their overdraft.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said it was entitled to change its pricing 
structure and while this meant some customers might end up paying more, it had transitional 
arrangements in place to mitigate this. Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied and referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ms concerns. He didnt think that Lloyds had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. Ive 
seen what Mr and Mrs M have said about having negotiated their overdraft with Lloyds. But I 
dont think Mr and Mrs M were guaranteed an overdraft on the same terms indefinitely. And 
this complaint appears to have been prompted by Lloyds providing Mr and Mrs M with notice 
of the changes in advance of them happening. So while Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with 
what they consider to be an unfair and excessive increase in Lloyds overdraft interest rate, 
Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure changes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs M if it implemented these changes to their 
account unfairly. For example, in circumstances where Mr and Mrs M were in financial 
difficulty and Lloyds took no steps to mitigate the effects of the proposed changes and this 
compounded their difficulties. So Ive considered whether Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs M fairly 
and reasonably when it implemented these changes on their overdraft. 
Having thought about everything, I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr and Mrs M unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I accept that Mr and Mrs M had a large overdraft limit which they 
were using regularly. And that this in itself could be considered a sign of potential difficulty, 
especially as theres an argument for saying Mr and Mrs M were hardcore borrowing  in 
other words their account was persistently overdrawn and often for extended periods. But 
crucially it looks as though Mr and Mrs M had the funds to exit the facility. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs M may have preferred not to use their savings in this way and they 
would have liked to have been given more notice before the changes took effect. But an 
overdraft is meant to be used as a short-term contingency fund.  
In any event, I think that its fair to say that for large periods Mr and Mrs M actions as well as 
what theyve told us, suggest they were choosing to use their facility in the way they did, 
rather than doing so because they had no choice. In these circumstances, I cant reasonably 
reach the conclusion that the overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for              
Mr and Mrs M, or that Lloyds ought to have provided the overdraft on more favourable terms.
Overall Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms account permitted 
Lloyds to make the price changes it did to the overdraft. Im also satisfied Lloyds didnt 
implement these changes in a way that treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. 
Ive also seen what Mr and Mrs M have mentioned about a credit card held by Mr M and 
concerns about the way their complaint was answered. But theyll need to complain to 
Lloyds about the credit card before were able to get involved. Equally complaint handling 
isnt an activity were able to look at complaints about, so while I appreciate Mr and Mrs M 
arent happy with the way the complaint was answered, this isnt a matter were able to help 
with.
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs M  especially as 
theyve quite correctly pointed out that its taken some time for their case to reach this stage. 
But I hope that theyll understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that their 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman