DRN-1606178
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened 
Mr T took out a credit card in June 2000. At the same time as taking out his credit card he 
was sold a PPI policy by Barclays.
The policy cost 0.75p per £100 of the balance on Mr Ts credit card. A successful claim 
on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 
12 months per claim if Mr T was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr T made it clear 
in his application he wanted the policy and that it provided a useful benefit.
Mr T disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr 
Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr T he had a choice in taking the policy and that he 
choseto take it. I dont know what was discussed with Mr T at the time he was sold the policy 
but Ive seen a copy of his original credit card application where he was given the option to 
select to take PPI or decline it. I can see Mr T selected to take PPI on the application form 
because there is a cross next to the Yes option. If Mr T didnt want PPI there was the 
option to select no to PPI next to this - like he did for the balance transfer. 
Mr T has confirmed it is his signature on the application form but says the crosses on the 
application form arent his. I can see that the application form contains personal information 
about Mr T so I think Mr T was involved in completing the application form and I dont think 
he wouldve signed the application form without reading it first. So I think he wouldve 
understood he didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. And I think PPI was likely 
applied to his account because he chose to take it  I havent seen anything to suggest 
otherwise.
Barclays say it advised Mr T to take the policy. What this means is that Barclays not only 
had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr 
T could make an informed choice about buying it. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend the policy that it was suitable to his needs and circumstances.I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr T for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr T says he was entitled to sick pay and had savings 
which he could use to make his repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer covering him for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work or lost his job. So I think the policy wouldve 
provided a useful benefit to Mr T in his circumstances.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time. 
And if he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Barclays gave Mr T information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not 
he wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for 
the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr T has told us about 
his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy if hed been given 
all the proper information on the policy.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back the cost of 
the PPI to Mr T. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman