DRN-3700795
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the quality of a car she has been financing though an agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI), trading as Nissan Finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs P acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs P. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Im persuaded that the car did have faults and that at least some of those remain unrectified. 
They would include a fault with the speed limit recognition system that Mrs P has been 
complaining about from only a few weeks into the agreement and Ive also seen a video 
showing the media unit not working.
RCI have clearly had many opportunities to repair the issues Mrs P complains of and as 
repairs havent been successful the legislation explains that Mrs P should be allowed to 
reject the car and to end the finance agreement with RCI. Im pleased to see that RCI have 
agreed to that.
 
Putting things right
In those circumstances RCI should end the finance agreement and take the car back. 
Theyll need to refund the deposit Mrs P paid but they dont need to refund the £1,000 dealer 
contribution. The invoice shows the deposit Mrs P paid to be £1,344.23. Theyll need to add 
interest to that refund as Mrs P has been deprived of the money.
RCI should also refund the instalments Mrs P paid towards her agreement but the relevant 
legislation allows them to retain some of those instalments to compensate them for the use 
Mrs P has had from the car. The car has still been driveable although it must have been 
frustrating for Mrs P to have to regularly refer faults to the dealership and make 
arrangements to have the car looked at, and I note that she wasnt always provided with a 
courtesy car. On balance, Im persuaded that RCI should retain 90% of the payments 
theyve received but that they should refund the other 10% to Mrs P, again adding interest.
Mrs P has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to regularly contact the 
dealership and to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. Shes also had to make arrangements with work to take the car to the 
garage and has had to make alternative arrangements to have her child taken to football 
practice. In the circumstances, I would agree with the investigator that RCI should pay her 
£350 in compensation.
I understand Mrs P is concerned about the residual value in the car and that she considers 
RCI may benefit from that. I cant consider whether the price that was agreed was a fair one. 
That price was agreed at the outset and its that agreement and whether theres been a 
breach of it, that Im considering here. Its also not something that RCI have been asked to 
look at.
The road fund license was included in the finance agreement and as Mrs P is returning the 
car any unused portion of that road fund license should be refunded to her. RCI have 
suggested Mrs P should claim that back through the DVLA but as the car belongs to RCI 
and not Mrs P I think its likely they will be the registered keeper and will have to claim that 
back for her. If Im wrong about that, and in any eventuality, RCI should liaise with Mrs P to 
ensure shes reimbursed for any unused portion of the road tax she may have paid. 
Its not necessary for RCI to refund the first registration fee as that would have been due 
regardless.
Mrs P has explained that the car has recently been in a rear end collision. She has explained 
that some repairs have been necessary. The terms of the finance agreement explain that 
Mrs P is responsible for refurbishment costs if the car is not returned in a good condition. 
RCI may therefore choose to inspect the car as they would always have done when/if the car 
was returned. Mrs P may then need to pay for any refurbishment but only if the damage is 
beyond normal wear and tear.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services 
Limited to:
Allow Mrs P to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs P.Refund the deposit of £1,344.23 and add 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 10% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of loss of use 
and loss of enjoyment. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs P £350 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Liaise with Mrs P to ensure any unused road fund license that may have been paid is 
refunded to her. 
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ps credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman