DRN-3103194
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited unfairly turned down her
claim on her mechanical breakdown insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss Ms car broke down, so she contacted Bapchild to claim on her policy. She said the
timing chain had failed and damaged the engine. Bapchild reviewed the claim and said the
timing chain had failed due to wear and tear. It said because of this it wouldnt cover her
claim. Miss M didnt think this was fair and complained.
Bapchild reviewed Miss Ms complaint and didnt change its position so she referred her
complaint here. She said the timing chain had failed at 40,000 miles and that the policy
should cover it. Miss M also provided a report from the repairing garage which said the
timing chain shouldnt have failed at such low mileage so didnt think the failure was down to
wear and tear. She also said her car had been dismantled without her consent and shed
incurred additional costs for the dismantling so it could be assessed by Bapchild.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 August 2021 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Miss Ms policy define breakdown as:
The sudden and unforeseen breakage of an item listen within the What is Covered 
leaflet inserted within the back cover as verified by the Validation Certificate issued 
by the Company. Failure or breakage, the proximate cause is wear and tear, or items 
which maybe considered to have come to the end of their normal working life 
expectancy, are specifically excluded from coverage afforded by this warranty.
Bapchild has declined Miss Ms claim as it said her timing chain failed due to wear and tear.
Im satisfied that at the point the chain failed to operate properly, and caused the damage to
Miss Ms engine, that it was a sudden and unforeseen event. Ive also considered Bapchilds
comments about it failing due to wear and tear, but Im not persuaded its fair and
reasonable to rely on this exclusion. I say this because its only fair and reasonable to
decline a claim due to wear and tear if a part has failed because its reached the end of its
normal working life expectancy. I also noted the terms exclude wear and tear or parts which
have come to the end of their normal working life, so it appears this is also the intention of
the policy terms.
Bapchilds engineer inspected Miss Ms car and said the failure is due to wear and tear. Miss
M also provided a letter from the repairing garage who said the timing chain shouldnt have
failed due to wear and tear on a car which had covered around 40,000 miles. Our
investigator asked for Bapchilds comments on this and its engineer gave a detailed
response about why a timing chain might fail on a car with low mileage, like Miss Ms.
However, I havent seen enough to persuade me this is what happened to Miss Ms car. I
understand Miss Ms timing chain may have failed due to wear and tear, but if the failure was
premature and before the end of the normal life expectancy of a timing chain Im not
persuaded its fair and reasonable to decline Miss Ms claim. And as Bapchild hasnt shown
Miss Ms timing chain would have a lower than normal life expectancy, or what the normal
life expectancy is, Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable to turn down her claim.
Miss M said because Bapchild didnt cover her claim she had to pay £2,395 to repair her car.
As Im satisfied Bapchild shouldnt have declined Miss Ms claim, it should pay her this
amount, subject to any policy limits and excesses. Bapchild should also add 8% simple
interest per year to the amount it pays to compensate her for not having the money.
Miss M responded and accepted my provisional decision. Bapchild responded and agreed to 
pay Miss M £2,395 to settle the complaint. It said it wouldnt award 8% interest as it would 
agree not to deduct the £100 excess from the settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend to depart from my provisional decision. While Im pleased to 
see Bapchild has agreed to cover the cost of repair. Im not persuaded that not deducting the 
excess goes far enough to compensate Miss M for not having the money she should have 
had. 
I say this because Miss M has been out of pocket for the repairs since January 2020. By 
adding 8% simple interest per year to the amount she would have been out of pocket means 
shes compensated for not having the money. Im also not persuaded deducting the excess 
goes far enough to do this. If Bapchild wishes to deduct the excess as well then thats its 
choice to make. 
Im therefore not satisfied Bapchilds offer is a fair and reasonable outcome, for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision.  It follows that Im therefore not persuaded to depart from 
my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited to pay Miss M 
£2,395, subject to any policy limits and excesses, plus 8% simple interest per year on what it 
pays. It should calculate the interest from the date Miss M paid to have her car repaired to 
the date it makes payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman