DRN-3445627
The complaint
Ms M complains that she was overcharged by Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) for 
her household warranty. 
What happened
Ms M agreed a policy with D&G in 2018 to provide cover for her cooker. In 2021 she 
received a renewal and contacted the business to query the price of £8.65 per month. She 
was informed the incorrect appliance had been recorded on her policy. It was described as a 
double oven when it should be a cooker. The call handler set up a new policy with the 
correct description. The new premium was confirmed at £6 per month.
Ms M thought she must have been overpaying since 2018 and complained to D&G. 
D&G says Ms M described the appliance as a double oven when the policy was taken out. 
This is the description in the policy documentation and renewal information it sent to her 
each year. It says when she contacted it in September 2021, she advised she had been 
overcharged for a double oven and a separate hob. D&G says this is incorrect, Ms M has 
never had cover for a separate hob.
D&G says the monthly price for a double oven and cooker are the same. If shed paid 
separately for a hob she wouldve been disadvantaged  but she hadnt paid for separate 
hob cover. When a quote is generated D&G says the schemes it uses determine the cover 
and price available. It says when Ms M called in August 2021 its agent gave incorrect 
information that led her to believe she had been overcharged. At this time its agent changed 
the description of the appliance on her policy to a cooker. And changed it to an insurance 
plan from a service plan. It says different fees applied, hence the reduction to £6 per month.
Ms M referred her complaint to our service as she wasnt satisfied with D&Gs explanation, 
and still felt she had been overcharged. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She 
says Ms M had confirmed the appliance was a double oven, based on the call recordings 
she listened to. But didnt think this impacted on the price or cover in place. She thought 
D&Gs agent had made an error in the 2021 call  but Ms M hadnt been financially 
disadvantaged.   
Ms M disagreed. She provided information to show her appliance being described by the 
manufacturer as a double oven. Ms M maintains she was charged more than she should 
have been. She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.         
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms M but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive listened to the call recording in April 2018. During this call Ms M agrees to a policy to 
cover her double oven at a cost of £5.34 per month. The appliance is described several 
times as a double oven. I can see that this is how it is also described in the policy 
documents.  
D&G has supplied screen prints to show the cost of appliance cover for a double oven, and a 
cooker. It shows the same manufacturer, cost, and date of purchase for both appliances. 
The price of the cover is the same. I think this reasonably supports D&Gs stance that there 
is no difference in the price when providing cover for a cooker or a double oven.
Ive read the information Ms M supplied regarding her appliance. I note her comments that 
the description she gave to D&G matches the manufacturers description. I dont dispute this. 
My remit is to consider what impact the description of the appliance had. Ms M says it has 
cost her more to insure her appliance. But I dont think this is the case.
D&G has shown the cost of providing cover for a cooker or double oven is the same. It 
explains the cost may change in future policy years. And Ms M can contact it to see if a 
lower premium can be offered. But there is no difference in the cost of cover between a 
double oven and a cooker. 
I havent seen evidence to show Ms M paid for separate hob cover. From what Ive seen I 
think its likely that the agent Ms M spoke to in August 2021 made a mistake in telling her 
she had paid too much. The new policy that was set up was slightly cheaper. But D&G 
explains this it because the premium can change when a quote is obtained. I dont think its 
been shown the price changed because separate hob cover was in place, or because the 
appliance was previously described as a double oven.
Having considered this information in detail, I dont think Ms M has been financially 
impacted. For future reference she may wish to contact the business at renewal to see if it 
can offer a cheaper premium. But I cant reasonably say that D&G has treated Ms M unfairly 
regarding the cost of her policy. 
Ms M has referred to a number of issues in how her complaint was handled. Including delays 
and long waits on hold when calling D&G. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity in 
itself. Whilst Im sorry to hear about the issues Ms M experienced in following D&Gs 
complaints process, I cant consider these points.
In summary I dont think D&G has treated Ms M unfairly. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman