DRN-3609993
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by refusing to 
remove the default of their account from their credit records. They believe the default on their 
account was the direct result of irresponsible lending of other loans held with it. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a joint bank account with HSBC with an overdraft facility. The account 
was closed with an outstanding balance in November 2017 and the account defaulted.
Mr M complained that recording a default on the account was inappropriate. He says the 
current account they had defaulted as a direct result of not being able to pay back other 
loans he held with HSBC.
HSBC says Mr and Mrs M spent the majority of time overdrawn and based on the account 
activity it cant say the account wouldnt have defaulted regardless of the other lending.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ms concerns and thought having looked at 
how the account was being operated didnt think the default of the account was a direct 
result of the loans. But they did think that HSBC shouldve stepped in earlier and had acted 
unfairly by continuing to charge overdraft fees when Mr and Mrs M hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. They thought to put things right 
HSBC should:
rework Mr and Mrs Ms account and remove all interest and charges added to the 
account from January 2017. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr and Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr and 
Mrs Ms credit file, it should backdate this to January 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayment and 
returned to Mr and Mrs M, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC should remove 
any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ms credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mr and Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As a gesture of goodwill HSBC agreed to follow the recommendations of our adjudicator and 
settle Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Mr and Mrs M declined the offer, so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr and Mrs M has experienced and see if HSBC has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr and Mrs M back in the position 
they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs Ms initial complaint point is regarding the account they held with HSBC and the 
registering of a default of this account on their credit files. So the question I have to ask is 
whether HSBC did anything wrong in closing Mr and Mrs Ms account - in particular 
registering a default when they didnt pay back the outstanding balance of their overdraft in 
the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr and Mrs Ms account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I 
can see that HSBC sent a number of letters to Mr and Mrs M notifying them that their 
account was in arrears and what was to happen to their account if no action was taken. And 
as HSBC gave the required notice and followed the correct procedures I cant say it did 
anything wrong in closing the account and recording the default.
Mr and Mrs M say that if it hadnt been for the irresponsible lending on two loans in Mr Ms 
sole name they wouldve been able to repay the overdraft and the account wouldnt have 
been defaulted. But I dont agree because having reviewed the bank statements of Mr and 
Mrs Ms account I can see that they spent the majority of time overdrawn even before the 
loans were taken out. So I cant say that the taking out of loans was directly related to them 
being unable to pay back their overdraft.
And I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in recording a default on Mr and Mrs Ms credit 
file  HSBC has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and this is an accurate 
reflection about what happened. 
Im also in agreement with our adjudicator that HSBC shouldve stepped in sooner than it 
did. Where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a detailed review of Mr and Mrs Ms statements, our adjudicator 
thought that by January 2017 it was clear Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft was unsustainable as 
their account hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for a significant period of time and 
thought HSBC should refund the interest and charges added to the overdraft from this point. 
As HSBC has offered to settle the complaint in-line with what our adjudicator recommended 
and Id expect, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put things right for 
Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr and Mrs M to decide 
whether to accept HSBC offer.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Mr and Mrs M is fair and reasonable and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman