DRN-4253364
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the amounts paid by Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y 
Reaseguros in settlement of a claim on her home contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Fs home was flooded in June 2020 and the flooding caused extensive damage. She 
made a claim on her home insurance policy. Ocaso accepted the claim and has made a 
number of payments. Although Ocaso made payments for damaged contents Mrs F wasnt 
happy with the amounts paid and made a complaint.
Mrs F has been represented in bringing this complaint by a family member but for ease Ill 
refer to Mrs F throughout.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially recommended that Ocaso make a 
payment based on the information Mrs F had provided, on the basis he hadnt received 
information from Ocaso to oppose what she had said. Ocaso then provided a detailed 
response and he reconsidered the complaint in the light of that evidence. He made a number 
of further recommendations as further information was provided by both Mrs F and Ocaso. 
His final recommendation was for Ocaso to make a further payment of £1,840.06. He also 
said it would be reasonable of Ocaso to:
investigate the whereabouts of a payment of £366.71 which Mrs F says she never 
received, if she provides evidence showing no payment for this amount being made 
into her account; and
add 8% simple interest to a payment of £520.05 relating to the cost of one item, from 
the date it was agreed to the date it is paid.
Ocaso has accepted these recommendations but Mrs F hasnt. She is looking for a 
settlement of £3,339.53 to cover the following items:
£50.01 for a rocking chair;
£520.52 for re-grouting tiles;
£899 for a replacement oven;
£51 outstanding for a dishwasher; 
£1,200 for the difference in value of one sofa;
£619 for the difference in value of another sofa (which she agreed to as it was made 
with different material).
As no agreement has been reached I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes cover for flood damage and Ocaso accepts that the claim for the 
damaged contents is covered. The issue is whether the amounts Ocaso has paid to date are 
fair.
The basis of settlement under the policy terms is the cost of replacing the item as new, 
provided the replacement is substantially the same as but not better than the original item 
when new.
The flooding incident took place in 2020 and the claim has been going on since then. Ocaso 
has made various payments, including to cover the cost of repair work to the property, but in 
relation to the contents claim there were various items in dispute. Over the course of the 
complaint the issues have been narrowed down. I have considered all the evidence 
submitted but I wont comment in detail on everything that has happened; my focus is on 
those items that are still dispute. This is in line with the nature of our service, which is to 
resolve complaints quickly and with minimal formality. 
Two items which were included in the investigators most recent view have now been 
resolved  a payment for grouting of kitchen tiles and a further payment for a rocking chair. 
Although both parties have now accepted these, I will include these in my directions to avoid 
any further issues.
I will deal with each of the remaining items, which are disputed, in turn.
Sofas 
This is the main area of dispute. Mrs F has bought replacement sofas but Ocaso has not 
agreed to reimburse the full amount shes paid for these. It says the replacements are 
different from the damaged ones and paying the full amount claimed would leave Mrs F with 
sofas that are better than the original ones. 
It's a reasonable approach to consider whether the replacements are better, given that the 
basis of settlement is the cost of replacing the item as new, provided the replacement is 
substantially the same as but not better than the original.
It's difficult to compare the sofas precisely. Mrs F doesnt have details of the original sofas  
she says her receipts and other paperwork were lost in the flood. While that cant be helped 
it means there is little evidence other than photos taken of the damaged sofas and the 
replacements. Mrs F says these show the replacements are like for like but they are not the 
same and its difficult to conclude they are equivalent from the photos, which indicate they 
may be of a better quality. 
On the other hand, while Ocaso has pointed out that the materials in the replacements are 
not all the same as the originals, theres little evidence to prove the settlement it offered was 
based on a like for like replacement. 
Given the difficulty in assessing whether the sofas are the same quality I think, on balance, 
the proposal made to increase the settlement but not to the full amount claimed is a fair way 
to resolve this.
Oven and dishwasher
Ocaso paid £398 for dishwasher but I agree £449 would be a more reasonable amount, so it 
should pay the difference of £51 for this. 
I think the amount paid for fitting is reasonable. The area in dispute is the cost of replacing 
the oven. Mrs F says Ocaso previously agreed to pay for the oven and should honour this. 
Ocaso says the oven wasnt damaged. It was at a higher level where the flood water didnt 
reach so on the face it, it seems unlikely there would have been damage. As Mrs F said the 
electric connection was damaged Ocaso asked for evidence of this. I havent seen any 
evidence confirming this and if Mrs F hasnt proved the oven needed to be replaced then it 
wouldnt be fair to expect Ocaso to pay for a new oven.Mrs F says Ocaso agreed to pay for the replacement oven but the email she has referred to 
simply says Ocaso would cover the replacement cost Should the oven require 
replacement So this would only be included if it was agreed the oven needed to be 
replaced, which hasnt happened.
For these reasons it wouldnt be fair to require Ocaso to cover the cost of replacing the oven.
Missing payment of £366.71
Ocaso has provided evidence this was paid. Mrs F hasnt included this in the list of 
payments she is seeking so it no longer seems to be an issue. But if she were to provide 
bank statements for the period in question showing no such payment into her account then 
Ocaso can investigate that. If Mrs F is unhappy with the outcome of that she can potentially 
raise it as a fresh complaint. 
Putting things right
Ocaso should make a further payment of £1,840.06, broken down as follows:
£50.01 for the difference between the amount included in the settlement for the 
rocking chair and the cost of the replacement;
£1,219 in respect of the difference between Ocasos settlement for the sofas and 
Mrs Fs replacements;
£51 for the additional cost of the dishwasher; 
£520.05 for the re-grouting of kitchen floor tiles; 
And pay simple interest at 8% per year on the payment of £520.05 for re-grouting the tiles 
from the date this item was agreed, to the date it is paid.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to pay the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman