DRN-2874852
The complaint
Miss F complains about a guarantor loan provided to her by UK Credit Limited, (UKC), 
which she says was unaffordable. 
What happened
UKC provided Miss F with a loan of £2,500 on 23 May 2012. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if she failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 43.85% (53.8% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 36 monthly 
repayments of around £126. If Miss F made each payment when it was due, shed pay 
£4,534.56 in total. The loan was repaid in April 2015.
Miss F said that she was in financial difficulty at the time of the loan application. She was 
going through a tough time with personal issues and wasnt in the right frame of mind. She 
was also taking out payday loans at the time. Miss F said that she struggled to make the 
loan repayments every month as the interest was high. 
In its final response letter, UKC concluded that it wasnt upholding Miss Fs complaint. It 
was satisfied on this occasion that sufficient checks were carried out in order to establish 
whether the loan would be affordable. UKC said that it had conducted a creditworthiness and 
affordability assessment proportionate to the loan product and size Miss F had applied for. 
After completing the assessment, UKC said that Miss F would have a surplus monthly 
income of £472.86 after the UKC monthly repayment. So, the loan repayments would have 
been affordable, and the loan wouldnt have a negative impact on Miss Fs ability to maintain 
any existing outgoings.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He thought 
that based on the evidence that UKC gathered during its application process for Miss Fs 
loan, the lender should have declined the loan and not proceeded to lend to her. UKCs
checks showed that Miss F was having problems repaying her outstanding debts, she
was making significant attempts to take out credit, she was reliant on her overdraft facility
which her income didnt cover, and she was unable to reduce a default balance.
UKC disagreed and responded to say, in summary:-
- The loan repayment was less than 10% of Miss Fs income. She was also receiving 
child benefit which was not used in its affordability assessment. 
- With regard to Miss F having a payment arrangement on one of her mail order accounts, 
UKC said that taking into account the conduct of its loan as well as the healthy surplus 
income it had calculated at the point of application, it couldnt agree that the mail order 
arrangement was as a result of problems sustaining current credit.
- With regard to an unpaid default on its credit checks, UKC said that the default had not 
been updated since the day it was reported as defaulted. Therefore, the investigators 
presumption that nothing has been paid towards it could be incorrect.
- With regard to Miss Fs overdraft facility, the bank statement provided by Miss F covered 
a period of six days. The investigators assumption that the account was consistently 
overdrawn and often up to the agreed overdraft limit of £1,550 was nothing other than 
an assumption. It also said that without seeing at least multiple months of bank 
statements, the overdraft should not be used as a vital tool to condemn Miss Fs 
financial status and affordability.
 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Miss F borrowed from UKC. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) 
said that for all loans, UKC needed to check that the borrowers could afford to meet their 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Miss F being able to meet her repayments 
out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks UKC needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Miss F would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
Ive highlighted some of the relevant guidance below. 
ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated: 
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. 
Paragraph 4.3 stated: 
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
  without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
  over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
  out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets. 
And Paragraph 4.4 described undue difficulty: 
The OFT would regard without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
  while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings; and
  without having to borrow further to meet these repayments. 
ILG 4.15 noted that the regulator did not consider self-certification of income would 
generally be sufficient in respect of significant long term credit agreementsILG 4.18 to 4.33 set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending practices relating 
to how businesses assess affordability. 
ILG 4.20 says this would include where a lender is: 
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case or cases.
ILG 4.21 gives another example: 
Failing to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess affordability, prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running account credit agreement). 
And ILG 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if: 
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable. 
ILG 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed by the customer. 
ILG 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice where a lender: 
Fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct. 
Altogether, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks:-
 - the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 - the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 - the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period). 
I note that UKC gathered some information from Miss F about her income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. Ive listened to the recording of a phone call between Miss F and 
UKC in which UKC collected this information from Miss F. UKC also obtained an extract from 
Miss Fs bank statement to evidence Miss Fs income. It also carried out a credit check.  
Miss F told UKC that she was single and had one dependent. She didnt own a car. 
Miss F declared her monthly income as around £1,330. This was made up of salary and 
benefits. UKC saw an extract of Miss Fs bank statement covering the period 16 May 2012 to 
22 May 2012 in order to evidence Miss Fs income. Ive reviewed the statement and can see 
Miss Fs monthly wages of around £631 and one weekly instalment of around £161 of her 
benefit income. As the bank statement extract only covered a seven day period, I cannot say 
that it evidenced Miss Fs declared monthly income of £1,330. 
I can see that UKCs final response letter showed a list of Miss Fs expenses and her total 
expenses as £674. The list included rent of £225 a month although Miss F had told UKC  
that her monthly rent payments were between £200 and £250. The listed expenses also 
showed monthly food/housekeeping of £130. But if UKC had checked the expenses on the 
bank statement it saw, I think its likely to have seen food/housekeeping expenses of around 
£90 for the seven days shown on the statement. So, I think Miss Fs monthly food and housekeeping expenses were likely to be significantly more than the monthly amount of 
£130 shed declared. UKC also didnt include in the list of expenses the amount of £40 which 
Miss F told UKC she was spending on socialising. Im also mindful that the expenditure 
didnt include anything for items such as clothing. So overall, I dont think it was reasonable 
for UKC to rely on the expenditure information declared by Miss F which was only partially 
verified by the extract from Miss Fs bank statement.
UKC calculated that Miss F would still have monthly unconsolidated credit of around £57 to 
pay and that Miss Fs disposable income was £472.86 after the loan repayment. But I can 
see from the bank statement extract that for the two days before Miss F was paid her salary, 
she was almost £48 over her overdraft limit. I think that this ought to have concerned UKC 
as it suggests that Miss F was having difficulty managing her money. 
Ive also reviewed UKCs credit report. UKC would have been aware from this that Miss F 
had seven active accounts and a total credit balance of £3,034 outstanding. The accounts 
included the high cost credit loan which Miss F said she would repay from UKCs loan. I note 
that she had taken out this loan for £550 less than five months before her application to 
UKC. I also note that two of the active accounts had very recent arrears and one of these 
accounts was in a payment arrangement. So, UKC would have likely been aware from its 
checks that Miss F already had problems managing her money at the time of her loan 
application. 
The credit report also showed that Miss F had faced problems managing credit in the past. 
She had a defaulted account from around two years before her loan application with no 
repayments shown. Whilst I note that the default record appears not to have been updated 
since the account was defaulted, I think it might have prompted further investigation. 
I also note that the credit report showed that Miss Fs current account was near its overdraft 
limit which was also evidenced by the bank statement extract UKC received from Miss F. 
 
The credit report didnt show the payday loans that Miss F had said shed taken out. But 
UKC will be aware that not all lenders report to the same credit reference agencies and a 
lenders credit check wouldnt always be up to date. So it was possible that Miss F had other 
credit which wasnt shown on UKCs credit report.
I think the recent arrears on two of Miss Fs accounts, the recent payment arrangement, the 
relatively recent need for high cost credit from another lender, the possible unpaid default 
balance and the current account near its overdraft limit, which were all shown on UKCs 
credit checks, ought to have caused UKC concerns. And, I think the information on UKCs 
credit checks suggested it was likely that agreeing more credit for Miss F would simply add 
to her debt levels, notwithstanding that Miss F had said that UKCs loan was being used to 
repay some of her outstanding credit. But I can see that the new loan wouldnt have covered 
all of Miss Fs outstanding debt. UKC was aware of this and had taken estimated monthly 
payments into account in its assessment. But I can see that the amount of UKCs monthly 
loan repayment was more than double the monthly amount for the credit she was repaying 
from the loan. So, her monthly credit commitments were increasing.
Overall, I think the picture from UKCs credit check was of a consumer whose finances were 
under pressure at the time of the loan application. In addition, I cannot see that the lender 
could have any great confidence in Miss Fs declared income and expenditure. So I dont 
think, based on the information it saw from its checks, that it was reasonable for UKC to 
conclude that Miss F would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. So, I dont 
think the loan should have been agreed and UKC needs to put things right.
Putting things right -what UKC needs to doUKC should:
  refund all the interest and charges Miss F paid on the loan;
  pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they   
were paid to the date of settlement*; and
  remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Fs credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give 
Miss F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I  
order UK Credit Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what UKC needs to do.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman