DRN-3196260
The complaint
Ms C complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim she made on a group income protection policy.
Ms C is represented by Mr C.
What happened
Ms C was insured under her employers group income protection policy. Ms C was employed 
in a senior role in financial services. The policy provided Ms C with cover for her own 
occupation. The specified deferred period was 13 weeks.
In December 2019, Ms C was signed off from work, suffering from workplace stress. In 
February 2020, her employer made an income protection claim on the policy on Ms Cs 
behalf. The GPs medical certificate stated that Ms C was unfit to work between 11 February 
and 7 April 2020 due to stress at work. Ms C provided L&G with a statement which said that 
she was absent due to work stress. 
L&G turned down Ms Cs claim. A rehabilitation specialist carried out an interview with Ms C 
and felt that she was suffering from stress symptoms which were caused by work-related 
issues. So L&G concluded that Ms C hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity.
Ms C appealed L&Gs decision. She provided additional medical evidence in support of her 
claim. Her GP stated that her condition had deteriorated in February 2020. They diagnosed 
Ms C with mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. Ms C was prescribed medication and 
referred for cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). Ms C also provided evidence from her 
psychologist, which stated that her symptoms had had an impact on her life outside of work 
and her ability to generally function. Ms C was made redundant from her role in late May 
2020.
L&G reviewed Ms Cs claim and it appointed an independent medical examiner (IME) to 
assess Ms Cs condition. The IME was a consultant psychiatrist who assessed Ms C in June 
2020. He concluded that Ms Cs symptoms were consistent with work-related stress. On this 
basis, L&G maintained its decision.
Ms C was unhappy with L&Gs stance and so Mr C asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. She assessed the available 
medical evidence and she didnt think it showed that Ms Cs illness had prevented her from 
work. Rather, she felt Ms Cs absence was work-related. So she didnt think Ms C had met 
the policy definition of incapacity and therefore, she concluded itd been fair for L&G to turn 
down her claim.
Mr C disagreed on Ms Cs behalf and Ive summarised his response to our investigator:
It was in L&Gs commercial interest to turn down claims;
The IME had been appointed and paid for by L&G and so he couldnt be classed as 
independent;
Ms Cs GP had known her very well and had been able to make a diagnosis of mixed 
anxiety and depressive disorder. The psychologist had also known Ms C far better 
than the psychiatrist. So Ms C considered that their evidence should be far more 
persuasive than the IMEs report;
At the point Ms C was assessed by the consultant, she had already made a recovery. 
So, the consultation didnt reflect her mental state for the duration of her claim. 
Therefore, the assessment was inappropriate and inaccurate;
Mental health has become a more recognised and accepted illness in recent times 
and is no less significant than a physical injury.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, I think it was fair for L&G to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Ms C that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and the detailed submissions Mr C has provided on her behalf, Ive carefully considered all 
of the available evidence. Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Ms C 
needing to make a claim and I dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has 
been for her. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point 
thats been made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of Ms Cs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether L&G 
handled Ms Cs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Ms Cs policy, as these form the basis of her 
contract with L&G. Ms Cs employer made a claim on her behalf for incapacity benefit, given 
she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for L&G to consider 
whether Ms Cs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look at L&Gs 
definition of incapacity in line with own occupation cover. This says incapacity:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred 
period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation will be 
determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
This means that in order for L&G to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out the essential duties of their own 
occupation. In Ms Cs case, it means that L&G needs to be satisfied that her illness 
prevented her from performing the essential duties of her role.Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Ms Cs responsibility to provide L&G with enough evidence 
to demonstrate that her illness had led to her being unable to carry out the essential duties of 
her role.
L&G assessed the evidence Ms C provided in support of her claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that she met the policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the 
available medical evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for L&G to 
draw.
The policy says that the benefit start date under the policy: Means the day immediately
after the last day of the deferred period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, a 
policyholder mustve been incapacitated in line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred 
period and immediately afterwards.
Ms Cs deferred period began on 17 December 2019 and therefore the benefit became 
payable under the policy 13 weeks later, on 18 March 2020. So, for the claim to be payable, 
Ms C needed to provide L&G with medical evidence to show that she had been prevented 
from carrying out the essential duties of her insured occupation because of an illness for the 
whole of the deferred period.
Initial claim submission
On 5 February 2020, Ms Cs employer signed a claim form on her behalf which was sent to 
L&G. This stated that the reason for Ms Cs absence was work stress. The GPs medical 
certificate dated 11 February 2020 states that Ms C was unfit for work because of stress at 
work. 
Ms C also filled-out a member statement on 24 February 2020 which was sent to L&G. On 
this form, Ms C stated that the reason for her absence was:
Work stress - the breaking point was a colleague raising a grievance against me ... This has 
hugely affected my self-esteem and confidence.
Ms C reported that the following symptoms prevented her from working:
Work constantly on my mind. Not being able to relax/ switch off even when on holiday. 
Constantly worried. Difficulty getting to sleep then waking up with palpitations in the night. 
Regularly coming home from work in tears and tears going to sleep.
She also told L&G that she had discussed returning to work with her employer and stated:
Work have offered me external remediation with the colleague I am having difficulties with, 
however I do not feel psychologically well enough for this at the moment.
I have asked about alternative roles within the company but current vacancies are either too 
low or too higher grade for my experience/qualifications.
Following the claim submission, L&G arranged for Ms C to undergo an assessment with one 
of its Rehabilitation Specialists in late-March 2020. In summary, the Specialists report stated 
that Ms C had indicated that the grievance which had been raised against her was the 
tipping-point for her absence, following a significant increase in her workload and 
management responsibilities. The report says that Ms C was worried about returning to work 
and refers to Ms Cs future intentions and barriers to returning to work:The member advised she cannot return to work until the workload has been reduced and 
the situation with her colleague has been resolved.
In summary, the report concluded:
Taking into account all the information available today, in my opinion, this case is not 
primarily medical. The member is experiencing stress type symptoms which are directly 
related to work issues.
On the basis of all of the available evidence, L&G turned down Ms Cs claim.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Its clear that Ms C was suffering from symptoms which 
could be indicative of a significant mental health condition. But I think it was reasonable for 
L&G to conclude that the evidence showed that Ms C was suffering from an adverse 
reaction to the difficult workplace situation in which she found herself. And that her absence 
from work was because of stress caused by the identified workplace stressors as opposed to 
a diagnosed mental health condition. I say that because all of the evidence, including Ms Cs 
own testimony, point to her suffering an adverse reaction to the stressful and upsetting 
period she was going through at work. It seems likely, based on this evidence, that L&G 
fairly concluded that if the workplace stressors were removed, Ms C would be fit to carry out 
her essential duties.
So I dont think L&G acted unfairly when it decided that Ms C wasnt suffering from an 
illness, during the deferred period, which prevented her from carrying out the essential duties 
of her occupation.
Subsequent medical evidence
Following L&Gs initial decision to decline Ms Cs claim, she provided further medical 
evidence, from her GP and from a psychologist in support of the claim. Ms Cs GPs letter 
was dated 4 May 2020 and stated:
She was initially seen for work related stress but her condition deteriorated in February 
2020. She was diagnosed with mixed anxiety and depressive disorder on 21st February 
2020 and was started on sertraline. It was also recommended at the time that she seeks 
help from a clinical Psychologist.
Its clear then that after Ms Cs deferred period had ended, the GP diagnosed her with mixed 
anxiety and depressive disorder and that both therapy and medication were prescribed. The 
Psychologists supporting letter says:
When I first saw (Ms C) she presented with symptoms for anxiety (e.g. excessive and 
persistent rumination and worries that haven't gone away despite not being at work, 
muscular tension and rapid heartbeat) and for a moderate depressive episode (e.g. loss of 
enjoyment in used to be pleasurable activities, loss of self-esteem, sleep changes, loss of 
concentration, and low mood most days). Although the main precipitating factor was work-
related, Ms Cs anxiety and low mood have had an impact on her life outside of work and on 
her general functioning.
In response to this new medical evidence which conflicted with its earlier assessment of the 
claim, L&G decided to appoint an IME who was a consultant psychiatrist to consult with Ms 
C. I think this was a reasonable and appropriate response from L&G, given the nature of the 
new evidence. I appreciate Ms C has concerns about the independence of the IME, but Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that the IMEs assessment of Ms Cs condition was influenced by 
the fact he was appointed and paid for by L&G.The IMEs assessment took place around a month after Ms C was made redundant from her 
role. Ive set out below some of the main points the IME set out in his report:
When talking about mood aggravation, Ms C told me that the main issue was an individual 
raising a grievance against her at work. She told me that there was a gradual build-up of 
poor mood in association with her workplace experiences. She told me that she would be 
returning home in tears.
She told me that requests not to manage the problematic individual and requests workload 
management were not agreed by the employer and that she was offered redundancy.
She told me that if the adjustments have been made then she would have been able to give 
work a try.
The IME summarised his findings as follows:
The evidence is that Ms C had work-related stress evidenced by an expression of many 
unsatisfactory experiences in the workplace; excessive workload, interpersonal conflict and 
experiencing behaviour that failed to meet expectation. These are factors that are high risk 
of work-related stress mentioned in the relevant literature.
Work-related stress is one of the leading causes for workplace sickness absence. This 
presentation is consistent with this statistic. The situation is consistent with stress, a non-
pathological psychological phenomenon describing a response to situations where the 
demands outweigh an individual's perceived capability. It is commonly associated with 
anxiety, biological disturbance, behavioural / attitude change as in this case.
Stress is not an illness. 
I acknowledge that Ms C stated that she was affected even when not at work. However, this 
is consistent with work-related stress. The history is that her thoughts were mainly relating to 
work, even when not at work. Her mental well-being was associated with those thoughts and 
therefore related to work.
(This) explanation offered by the GP is of a mental well-being disturbance that is mild and 
would not be associated with significant functional impairment in an individual
performing the generic aspects of their usual role
There is no evidence of sustained, timely, systematic, progressive medical treatments that 
would be typically associated with managing a significant mental illness that was preventing 
somebody from working in their usual role.
He concluded:
While the evidence does not support a diagnosis of psychiatric illness, prolonged work-
related stress increases the risk of many mental and physical illnesses. This risk could and 
should have been mitigated by the employer maintaining reasonable adjustments in the
workplace and maintaining good psychological hygiene as per recommendations by the 
Health and Safety Executive.
Currently, there is no objective evidence of any specific functional impairment secondary to 
illness that would prevent Ms C from executing the insured role with her last or any other 
employer.There is no medical reason to prevent a phased return to work. The reported barriers to the 
return to work were non-medical.
Ive considered all of the evidence carefully. I appreciate that Ms C feels both the GP and 
psychologist knew her and her condition better than the IME and I can understand why shed 
prefer me to place more weight on their evidence. But, I bear in mind that the IME is a 
specialist consultant in the psychiatric field, with many years of relevant experience in 
psychiatry. It seems from the report that he engaged in a detailed online consultation with 
Ms C and was able to discuss her symptoms and position with her in depth. I also dont think 
the fact that the consultation took place after Ms C was made redundant (broadly a month 
on) prejudices the reliability of the evidence or doesnt fairly reflect Ms Cs position during the 
time of the claim. So on balance, I find the IMEs evidence more persuasive overall and Ive 
placed more weight on it than the GPs and the psychologists evidence. 
Its clear that Ms C was suffering from symptoms consistent with mixed anxiety and 
depressive disorder. But I do think the evidence points towards the cause of Ms Cs 
symptoms being the workplace stressors shed encountered rather than a specific functional 
impairment which prevented Ms C from carrying out her role. Both the GP and psychologist 
too noted that the main cause of Ms Cs symptoms had been the difficult situation she found 
herself in at work and it had been this that had caused her condition to deteriorate.
The IME didnt find that Ms Cs symptoms were caused by a psychiatric illness  rather he 
found they were down to workplace stress. And he didnt think there was any medical reason 
why Ms C couldnt return to work  he noted the barriers to working were non-medical. This 
seems to suggest that it was workplace stressors which affected Ms Cs ability to carry out 
her role, rather than being unable to work because of a significant mental health condition. 
And I think the IMEs findings support the previous medical evidence provided by the 
rehabilitation specialist and indeed, the information Ms C herself gave L&G when she filled 
out her member statement as to the cause of her symptoms and absence. Both of these 
pieces of evidence tend to support L&Gs conclusion that Ms Cs condition didnt meet the 
definition of incapacity.
Taking the totality of the evidence together, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to conclude 
that Ms Cs absence wasnt due to an incapacity which prevented her from carrying out the 
essential duties of her role. Instead, I think it fairly concluded that Ms Cs absence was more 
likely due a natural and understandable stress reaction to the difficulties she encountered at 
work.
So overall, despite my natural sympathy for Ms Cs position, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for L&G to turn down her income protection claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman