DRN-3246719
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided him with 
a loan in January 2021.
Background
Mr J took out a loan for £780 over 18 months in January 2021 with Loans 2 Go. He was 
charged interest at a rate of 1,059% APR which meant that when the loan was repaid in full, 
he wouldve been charged £2,428.86 in interest brining the total repayment owed to 
£3,208.86.
Mr J has said that at the time he applied for the loan he was gambling very heavily and was 
already in a lot of debt. He said that had Loans 2 Go looked at his bank statements before 
agreeing to give him the loan it wouldve been clear that he wasnt managing his finances 
properly and that he would struggle to repay the loan. He also feels that it is unjust that 
Loans 2 Go can provide him with a loan for £780 but expect him to repay over £3,200 in 
return. 
Loans 2 Go has said that when it agreed to provide Mr J with the loan it ran all the necessary 
checks including asking him to complete an income and expenditure form and reviewing his 
credit file to better understand his existing credit commitments. Having done that it was 
satisfied that the loan was affordable and so there was no need to ask Mr J to provide any 
additional information including statements. It also says all of the information regarding the 
interest that would be charged was clear on the loan agreement and that Mr J couldve 
cancelled the loan within the first 14 days if he had been unhappy with the repayment 
amount. However, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to write off 50% of the outstanding 
interest owed which wouldve reduced Mr Js overall debt by £1,214.43 meaning he still had 
to repay £1,994.43.
Mr J refused Loans 2 Gos offer and brought his complaint to our service as he still believed 
the loan should never have been given to him and Loans 2 Go shouldnt be allowed to 
charge that much interest on a relatively small loan. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js complaint already. She found that Loans 2 Go 
had completed sufficient checks at the time of application and that there was nothing to 
indicate Mr J would struggle to repay the loan. She accepted that while there was some 
adverse information on Mr Js credit file she said Loans 2 Go, which specialises in providing 
high cost credit to consumers with poor credit file ratings, had taken these into consideration 
before giving Mr J the loan and that these wouldnt have automatically prevented him from 
being able to obtain credit at this rate. So she didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Mr J disagreed with the outcome reached by our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman 
to review his case again and so its been passed to me for consideration.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as that of our adjudicator. I know this will 
come as a disappointment for Mr J and so Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr J has said that at the time he was provided the loan, January 2021, he was gambling 
very heavily and that by charging him such a high amount of interest Loans 2 Go were taking 
advantage of his vulnerability. In addition, he has mentioned that although the loan was paid 
into an account, he had with one bank, the direct debit mandate he signed for repayments 
was from a different bank and that Loans 2 Go shouldve noticed this and questioned it. 
Id like to thank Mr J for being so honest about his gambling problem and for explaining 
exactly what was going for him at the time he took out the loan. I know that wouldve been a 
very difficult thing to do and I hope Mr J is getting the support he needs to stop gambling. 
In order for me to be able to uphold Mr Js complaint I need to be satisfied Loans 2 Go didnt 
follow the correct rules and regulatory requirements when it provided the loan to Mr J. The 
rules that lenders need to follow are set out in a mix of regulations and legislation. A 
summary of the relevant code can be found on the FCA website under the Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC). I have kept these rules in mind when reviewing Mr Js complaint. 
When providing credit to a consumer, businesses must check two basic things. Firstly the 
loan must be affordable, that is the business has to check that the consumers priority bills 
(like food, rent/mortgage and heating etc) are fully covered before it considers how much 
disposal income is left and whether the loan repayment would be affordable within that 
amount. Secondly it has to consider if the loan is sustainable. In other words, is it likely that 
the consumer will be able to maintain the monthly loan repayments over the full term of the 
loan without it causing financial problems? 
In order to establish these two things businesses must carry out checks at the point of 
application. However, the rules set out in CONC dont require lenders to carry out specific 
checks, but rather sufficient checks. Which means businesses can decide what sort of 
checks to run and what levels of risk they are prepared to take when providing loans to 
people. 
Loans 2 Go has said that when Mr J applied for his loan, they checked his income and 
expenditure, noting he had a monthly income of approximately £1,390 and existing 
outgoings of approximately £1,072. This left Mr J with a monthly disposable income of 
around £318. It calculated that his monthly loan repayments over the 18-month term of the 
loan would be £178.27 which it felt would be affordable for him. 
In addition to completing an income an expenditure check with Mr J, Loans 2 Go also ran a 
credit file check to ensure there was no hidden debt that the income and expenditure form 
hadnt accounted for. This is how it considered whether or not the loan would be sustainable.  
Having done so it saw that while there was some adverse markers on Mr Js file, there were 
two defaulted accounts and some additional payday loans that were being repaid on time 
and in full each month, for the most part all of the active credit Mr J had was being properly 
maintained. And while some lenders may have refused to provide credit to Mr J because of 
the adverse information on his file, the rules dont say that lenders cant provide credit in this 
instance. Although it is likely to be more expensive because of the higher risk to the lender. 
So although I agree there were some indications that Mr J had struggled to meet his credit 
obligations in the past, I dont think there was anything on his credit file in January 2021 that 
indicated Loans 2 Go shouldve refused him credit at that time. Mr J has said that when he took out the loan with Loans 2 Go, he was behind on several 
essential bills such as his rent and council tax. We asked him to provide additional 
information about that which he did. Ive reviewed the screenshots he sent us and having 
done so I can see the arrears that he has told us about. But it doesnt appear that this 
information wouldve been available to Loans 2 Go when Mr J applied for his loan. This 
because it seems like a lot the problems Mr J started to experience with his finances 
happened around the same time as he took this loan, or shortly after it. Which means it 
wasnt apparent on his credit file and looking at his bank statements the increase spending 
on gambling also seems to start the month following the loan application and not before it. 
So I cant say Loans 2 Go failed to notice that Mr J was starting to experience problems 
keeping up with his essential bills when he applied for his loan, because I dont think it had 
impacted his credit file at that time. It likely appeared shortly after the loan was approved but 
Loans 2 Go wouldnt have been aware of that without Mr J telling it. Which means I dont 
think Loans 2 Go acted unreasonably or irresponsibly when it approved the loan and so I 
cant uphold Mr Js complaint on this basis. 
Mr J has questioned how Loans 2 Go are allowed to charge such a high amount of interest 
on such a relatively low loan amount. He feels it is extremely unfair that he could borrow 
£780 and be liable to repay over £3,200. I sympathise with Mr J on this point and agree the 
loan he received was extremely expensive. However high cost credit providers such as 
Loans 2 Go are allowed to offer loans at these exceptionally high rates. However, it must be 
clear at the point of application what the interest rate is and how much a potential borrower 
is going to have to repay in total. Looking at the credit agreement Mr J signed I can see that 
the Loans 2 Go set out the interest rate of 1,059% APR clearly. It also showed that this 
would mean Mr J had to repay £3,208.86 in total, more than four times the amount he 
borrowed. So, while I understand why Mr J feels this allowed Loans 2 Go to take advantage 
of his limited financial options at the time, I cant say the business broke any rules or laws 
offering him a loan at these rates. So, I cant uphold his complaint on this basis. 
The final point raised by Mr J was that the account the loan repayments were supposed to 
come out of wasnt the account the loan was paid into. While this may seem unusual to Mr J, 
theres nothing to stop consumers from doing this and its not necessarily an indication that 
anything is wrong. There could be multiple reasons why someone would choose to have the 
funds sent to one account but the repayments set up on another account. I dont think Loans 
2 Go shouldve viewed this as a potential indicator Mr J was experiencing financial problems. 
In response to his complaint Loans 2 Go did offer to write off £1,214.43 of interest from Mr 
Js loan. Which would reduce the amount he owes to £1,994.43. Mr J should contact Loans 
2 Go to see if this offer is still available to him.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Js complaint against Loans 2 Go 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman