DRN-3289556
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with their private medical insurance policy underwritten by AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA). 
What happened
In May 2014 Mr and Mrs L took out private medical insurance with AXA. Their policy had a 
renewal date of 1 August each year.
In May 2019 Mr L went for an oncology treatment and was referred to a specialist. Mr L 
required further treatment which took place on 6 August 2019. As the treatment fell into a 
new policy year, Mr L was charged a £500 excess. He thinks this is unreasonable because 
the treatment was authorised in July, before the previous policy year had ended. 
Following receipt of their renewal notice on 29 June 2020, Mr L contacted AXA because he 
was unhappy with the renewal price quoted. This specific complaint point has been dealt 
with separately by this service. An ombudsman has already issued a decision on that matter, 
so I wont be commenting any further on this issue.
During calls with AXA they outlined options for Mr L to reduce his premiums and how the no 
claims discount bonus functions. Mr L said at this stage he shouldve been told about the no 
claims protection, but he wasnt. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with the options provided by AXA, so he requested a two-month 
premium holiday, or he said he would look to cancel his policy. AXA said they could only 
offer one-month free premiums and Mr L said hed think about it. 
In July 2020 Mrs L required some scans on her pelvis and shoulder. She was then told she 
required further scans which were booked in for 3 August 2020. Mrs L asked AXA if the new 
scans would be covered under her existing claim, but AXA said as the procedure would be 
happening after the renewal date, a new excess would be due. They also confirmed if Mrs L 
didnt renew her policy then the procedure wouldnt be covered. Mrs L underwent the scans 
on 3 August 2020 as planned. 
Mr L contacted AXA to complain about the excess Mrs L had been charged because the 
treatment was authorised in July, before the previous policy year had ended. So, he said the 
claim should be considered in that year. He said liability should be accepted when the 
treatment is authorised, not when the treatment takes place.  He also highlighted that Mrs L 
was unable to get treatment in the previous policy year despite contacting several hospitals, 
so it was unreasonable for a new excess to be charged due to this delay. Mr L complained 
this had also happened to him in 2019 (see above), so he felt this was dishonest practice.
AXA said both excess charges had been correct as the treatment occurred after the renewal 
dates.
AXA said they only offer cover for MRI, PET, CT scans or out-patient treatment for cancer. 
So they declined to cover the scan Mrs L had on 29 July 2020 because it wasnt listed. But 
as Mrs L had been told by AXA on an earlier call her scan would be covered, AXA accepted 
to cover the cost of this. 
The policy went on to be cancelled so AXA said the ultrasound and CT scan she underwent 
on 3 August 2020 also werent covered because there was no longer cover in place.  But, as 
a gesture of goodwill, they also agreed to cover the scans that took place on 3 August. AXA 
said Mrs L would still have to pay £500 as excess towards the CT scan because this would 
have been a new policy year. 
Mr L recovered the £1,240.02 premium hed paid. He said AXA owed him for the two £500 
excess charges he felt were unfair, so he was entitled to keep £1000. But as AXA had 
already made a goodwill payment of £150 he kept £850 of this premium and sent AXA a 
cheque for £390.02 to cover Mrs Ls outstanding treatment invoices. AXA didnt agree to 
cover the remaining costs of the treatments.  
Mr L raised further concerns surrounding the policy wording on no claims discount. And he 
was unhappy about AXAs approach to no claims protection and the way this too was 
worded in the policy terms and conditions. AXA said their policy terms and conditions 
explained how the excess and no claims discount worked. AXA also felt theyd made 
reasonable attempts to outline the options available to Mr L. 
Mr and Mrs L referred this complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and didnt uphold the complaint as he thought AXA had acted fairly and in line 
with the policy terms. 
Mr L didnt agree. In summary he said: 
He strongly believes Covid-19 delayed Mrs Ls treatment and he shouldnt be 
financially penalised because of this. 
AXA accept liability once they give an authorisation code 
He thinks its unfair the way AXAs approach affects his no claims bonus and right to 
have no claims bonus protection. 
He thinks its unfair there isnt a Key facts summary to cover premium calculation, no 
claims discount etc. 
On other insurance contracts they always offer a no claims discount. But with AXA 
its at their discretion. This is hidden at the end of a policy booklet.
He had concerns about the insurers involvement in setting the costs of medical 
treatments within the industry  
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr L for providing detailed submissions, all of which Ive carefully considered.  Ive 
only mentioned those points I think are relevant to the outcome of the complaint.The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The excess charges
Mr L argues that AXA should calculate treatments from the date of authorisation. Otherwise 
it is unfair when treatment is delayed. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say:  
Paying your excess
We count the treatment costs for each year according to the date the treatment took 
place.
We only take off the excess once per person per membership year.
It also applies for each membership year. This means that if you incur costs during this 
membership year, we will take the excess off what we pay for your claim. If you then incur 
more costs in the next membership year, even if its for the same condition, we will take the 
excess off that claim. 
Im satisfied that the above terms make clear that excess will be deducted based on the date 
treatment took place, even if the claim began in a prior period. Its also clear that if treatment 
is received on a claim in one period and further treatment is required in the next period, a 
new excess will be deducted even if it is for the same claim.
So I dont think AXA treated Mr or Mrs L unfairly when they charged an excess for the 
treatments theyd received in August of their new policy year  despite the treatment being 
for the same condition theyd claimed treatment for in the previous policy year. 
AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions when deducting a new excess for treatment 
which occurred after the renewal date. Applying an excess from the date the treatment 
occurs is accepted practice within the insurance industry. 
Covering the cost of Mrs Ls treatment in August 2020 
Mr Ls policy was cancelled so whilst I can understand the way Mr L has calculated things 
following the return of his premium, I dont agree that keeping £1000 from AXA and returning 
the remainder of his premium means Mrs Ls treatment in August 2020 should be covered. 
That is not the way insurance works once your cover has been cancelled. The return of the 
premiums puts Mr L back in the position he wouldve been in if the policy had never been in 
place from 1 August 2020. So, this means there was no cover in place at the time Mrs Ls 
procedures took place on 3 August. 
I appreciate Mr L remains unhappy because he feels the cost of the procedures should be 
covered in full. But Ive already explained above why I dont think it was unfair for AXA to say 
this wasnt a continuation of Mrs Ls previous claim from July 2020. And so, I agree it was 
reasonable for AXA to charge a new excess. 
On that basis I dont think AXA needed to do anything further. AXA have, as an act of 
goodwill, covered both procedures Mrs L had on 3 August 2020, minus the £500 excess. 
This means they have already paid more than I would have asked them to do in the 
circumstances. 
Delays in access to treatment
Mr L is upset with the timeline of events and the impact Covid-19 had on availability of 
specialists. Mrs L called AXA on the morning of 29 July 2020 regarding her treatment which took place 
that day. The policy year ended on 31 July 2020 which meant Mrs L only had two remaining 
days of that year to obtain any further treatment she needed, without being charged a new 
excess. 
Mrs L said she had hoped to receive this treatment within those two days but the consultant 
wasnt available until after her renewal date. Whist I appreciate Covid-19 impacted the 
medical field and consultants availability, I cant see any evidence in this case that the two 
working day wait for treatment between the 29 July and 3 August was due to Covid-19. And I 
wouldnt say two working days is a delay, unless the treatment was urgent. 
In any event, I wouldnt normally hold an insurer accountable for the availability of treatment 
as this is something that is outside their control. 
No Claims discount policy wording
Mr L said the policy terms and conditions are not clear on how the no claims discount works 
and it is unreasonable AXA dont provide a short policy summary of the key terms of this 
section. While I appreciate that a summary of this information would be helpful, its not an 
industry requirement for no claims discount. 
Page two of the terms and conditions clearly directs customers to page 51 onwards, to find 
out how their excess and no claims discounts work. Then page 55 of the terms and 
conditions states:
Can I protect my no claims discount?
In some cases, we may offer you the chance to protect your no claims discount for a small 
fee. If you want to do this please contact us within 30 days of receiving your renewal 
documents.
I can see AXA provide a supplementary four-page document which outlines how your no
claims discount works. Im satisfied this shows how the no claims discount is calculated and 
page four of this document sets out AXAs discretion around protecting a no claims discount:
Can I protect my NCD?
We may offer certain people on the policy this option for an additional premium. If so,
this will be shown on your membership statement at renewal and you must accept this
offer within 30 days of the renewal date
I appreciate Mr L thinks this approach is unfair, but Im satisfied that the policy documents 
reasonably outline how no claims discounts work and that there may be an option to offer no 
claims discount protection  but this isnt guaranteed. 
Mr L has provided comparisons with other insurance providers and how they calculate no 
claims discounts and protections. I appreciate other provides may do things differently. But 
that doesnt mean AXA has done anything wrong in relation to the policy Mr and Mrs L took 
out. And for the reasons Ive already explained I dont think it has. 
Lack of advice to protect a no claims discount
Mr L is unhappy AXA didnt advise him to protect his no claims discount during any of the 
calls that took place between him and AXA where they discussed reducing his premiums. Im unable to say if Mr L wouldve specifically avoided claiming over a number of years to 
maximise his no claims discount and then paid extra premiums to protect it. But I do think, 
despite it not being covered off in the calls, AXA made Mr L aware of the possibility of this in 
the policy documents. 
In any event, I think its likely that protecting a no claims discount would have likely 
increased Mr Ls premium which is why AXA wouldnt have brought it up during Mr Ls calls 
given his focus was on reducing his premiums. 
Medical Costs
Mr L has raised concerns regarding the costing of medical treatments within the industry and 
the insurers involvement with this. Costs are set by the medical providers themselves and 
this isnt something the insurer has influence over. This isnt something I am able to 
comment any further on. 
Summary
I think the policy terms clearly state treatment costs are considered when the treatment took 
place, not when treatment is authorised. And I dont think AXA have acted unreasonably by 
applying the policy terms in this case. The gesture of goodwill by AXA to pay for both Mrs Ls 
August 2020 procedures, minus the £500 excess is more than I would have asked them to 
do in the circumstances. Im satisfied AXA have acted reasonably in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman