DRN-2938983
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited increased their 
motor insurance premiums following an incident that wasnt their fault.
What happened
Mrs B had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. Mr B was a named driver on the policy. In 
April 2019 Mrs Bs car was damaged when another car drove into it when it was parked. The 
other drivers insurer accepted responsibility for the incident and paid for the claim. 
Just under a year later, in April 2020, Mrs Bs motor insurance policy came up for renewal. 
Admiral sent Mrs B the renewal quote in March, a few weeks before the renewal date. The 
premium had increased from £368.67 the previous year to £548.25. Mr and Mrs B were 
having to deal with serious personal matters at the time, and they didnt notice the increase 
until they received their renewal papers the following year in April 2021.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Admiral about the size of the increase. Admiral told them that 
the increase in premium in April 2020 was due to the incident in April 2019. It said that it 
takes non-fault incidents into account when calculating premiums, and that this is a business 
decision. And it explained that this was because it had found that customers involved in non-
fault incidents often go on to make further claims. It said there were many possible reasons 
for this, and provided some examples. But it explained that it couldnt give Mr and Mrs B a 
breakdown of its calculations, as the information was commercially sensitive. Admiral said it 
had sent the renewal quote in time for Mr and Mrs B to get alternative quotes if they wanted 
to, and theyd been under no obligation to accept the quote. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with Admirals response to their complaint, and complained to 
this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said insurers are entitled to decide how to rate the risks they take on, and 
Admiral had made a commercial decision to take account of non-fault incidents. She was 
satisfied that Admiral had applied its underwriting criteria correctly, and hadnt treated 
Mr and Mrs B differently from how it would have treated other customers in the same 
position. And Admiral had sent out the renewal invitation in good time. So she didnt think it 
had acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for similar reasons.
I can fully understand why Mr and Mrs B dont think the premium Admiral charged in 
April 2020 reflects their driving history. Theyre unhappy that an incident that wasnt their 
fault, and over which they had no control, affected the premium that Admiral charged them 
when the policy was renewed. And theyre unhappy about the size of the increase.
But as our investigator explained, insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. When 
deciding how much to charge for policies, insurers make an assessment of the likelihood 
that their policyholders will make a claim, and of how much they might have to pay out for 
those claims. Insurers take into account a number of risk factors when deciding how much to 
charge for insurance. And if they consider that a risk has increased, they may decide to 
increase the premium.
One of the factors that Admiral took into account when calculating the renewal premium on 
Mrs Bs policy was the incident in April 2019. This was regardless of the fact that Mr and 
Mrs B werent to blame for it. I can understand why this might seem unfair to Mr and Mrs B. 
But its not unusual for motor insurers to factor non-fault incidents into their rating criteria 
when calculating premiums, even where no claim has been made. And if Admiral considered 
that Mr and Mrs B represent a higher risk as a result of the incident, it was entitled to charge 
a higher premium.
Mr and Mrs B have suggested that Admiral may have recorded the incident incorrectly on 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which is visible to other insurance providers. 
But Admirals Claims Risk Sanction Team, which has access to the CUE, have checked the 
information recorded. Theyve confirmed that the incident in April 2019 is recorded correctly 
as notification only with no payment having been made, and no impact on Mr and Mrs Bs no 
claims discount. And Im satisfied that it would be apparent to other insurers from this that 
the incident wasnt deemed to be Mr and Mrs Bs fault.
Mr and Mrs B have expressed frustration that were not able to tell an insurer that we regard 
its costs as excessive. Theyve said that theyd hoped that this service could provide them 
with some answers and control the costs insurers can simply add for instances like this. 
But as the investigator explained, were not a regulator. That means its not our role to tell an 
insurer how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it our role to tell an insurer what 
factors it should take into account when assessing risk. Different insurers will have different 
views on what presents a risk, and the extent of any risk. Thats a matter of commercial 
judgement and not something we would usually think its fair to interfere with.
We generally take the view that providing it treats people fairly  in other words, that it treats 
customers with similar circumstances in the same way  an insurer is entitled to charge what 
it feels it needs to in order to cover a risk.
Admirals given us some details showing how it calculated Mr and Mrs Bs premium. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with them. But, having looked at it 
very carefully, Im satisfied Admiral treated Mr and Mrs B as it would have treated other 
consumers in similar circumstances.
I can understand how Mr and Mrs B may not agree with Admirals assessment of risk. But 
that doesn't mean its done anything wrong. Its entitled to decide its rating factors in 
response to its assessment of the risks it covers and the market it operates in. And as Ive 
said above, it's not for me to tell Admiral how it should go about assessing the risk it believes 
its policyholders present. Thats something its allowed to do when balancing its need to 
cover any perceived risks against its desire to be competitive and attract a customers 
business. So I don't think its approach to rating risk is unfair.I dont doubt that if Mr and Mrs B had had a chance look at the quote before renewal in 
April 2020 they might have decided not to accept it, and to seek an alternative. I fully 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs B for the situation they were having to deal with at the time, and 
can understand how the quote may have escaped their notice. But while I can understand 
Mr and Mrs Bs frustration, I cant fairly hold Admiral responsible for this.
I realise that Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly about their complaint. But for the reasons Ive 
set out, I cant say that Admirals done anything wrong here. So Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs B, but I cant uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman