DRN-4182858
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr M complain about the service London and Country Mortgages Ltd provided in 
relation to their re-mortgage application.
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs G and Mr M were looking to re-mortgage their residential property when 
their existing five-year fixed interest rate deal was coming to an end. They approached 
London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) who recommended a new product with a different 
lender and submitted an application on Mrs G and Mr Ms behalf.
Mrs G had been absent from work earlier in the year due to sickness related to her disability. 
To evidence her salary, Mrs G and Mr M provided additional payslips and offered to send 
her new employment contract to deal with any queries about her pay. 
Mrs G and Mr M were asked several times to provide evidence of her employment. Despite 
explaining that the employer didnt routinely sign contracts of employment, the lender initially 
refused to accept it or supporting documentation from Mrs Gs employer that explained 
things.
Mrs G and Mr M were unhappy with the level of information Mrs G was asked to provide to 
support the application and the time things took. They felt Mrs G had been discriminated 
against on grounds of her disability since the information she was required to provide was 
much more than Mr M was asked for. That caused Mrs G stress which affected her health 
condition and ability to work. And they were both concerned the lenders failure to accept 
information theyd provided would cause them to lose their mortgage offer and have a 
financial impact.
Mrs G and Mr M complained to L&C about what had happened. They said, in summary, that 
L&C hadnt addressed their concerns about delay, the failure to accept documentation theyd 
submitted or the risk of discrimination against Mrs G by the lender or themselves.
L&C responded to their complaint in November 2022. They didnt uphold it. They said 
requests for additional information had come from the lender who was checking, amongst 
other things, the affordability of the mortgage; L&C werent responsible for that; and there 
hadnt been any delays by them. 
Mrs G and Mr M were unhappy with the outcome and L&Cs failure to address their concerns 
about discrimination. They brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator didnt think L&C had acted unfairly or in a discriminatory way. He thought 
L&C had carried out the work expected of a broker in sourcing a mortgage that was suitable 
for Mrs G and Mr M, submitting the application on their behalf and responding to requests 
from the lender for information.
Mrs G and Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. They said theyd made L&C aware that 
the requests were discriminatory based on disability under the Equality Act 2010; the fact 
L&C were acting as broker didnt remove their legal responsibilities under the 2010 Act; L&C 
had ignored that point in responding to their complaint; and our investigator hadnt 
addressed the issue or considered if L&C had acted legally.
Our investigator explained the Financial Ombudsman Service cant decide if a firm has acted 
unlawfully since thats a matter for the courts. But we take the law into account in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable. He still thought L&C had acted fairly in passing on the lenders 
requests for information to progress the application. And he said we couldnt consider Mrs G 
and Mr Ms complaint that L&C hadnt addressed their concern about discrimination in 
response to their complaint since we dont have the power to look into complaints handling. 
Since Mrs G and Mr M remained unhappy, their complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs G and Mr Ms strength of feeling about their complaint and their concerns 
that Mrs G has been subject to discriminatory treatment on account of her disability. I can 
understand it was stressful for Mrs G and Mr M when it looked as if their application might be 
delayed and lead to financial loss. Im pleased to note the re-mortgage went through in the 
end.
I note Mr Ms point that our investigator didnt reach a view as to whether L&C had breached 
the Equality Act 2010 in failing to raise concerns with the lender that it was discriminating 
against Mrs G or to look at their own actions in that regard. As our investigator explained, we 
dont have the power to decide if theres been a breach of statute. Thats a matter for the 
courts. If Mrs G and Mr M want a decision on whether the 2010 Act has been breached, 
theyd need to go to court. The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to decide 
complaints based on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. We do take 
legislation into account in deciding that and Ive had regard to relevant legislation here. 
As I understand it Mrs G and Mr Ms underlying concern is that Mrs G, as a disabled person, 
was treated less favourably than others who arent disabled would have been treated in a 
similar situation. Theyve noted the requirement that service providers must remove barriers 
because of disability so any customer can access and use services in the same way as 
someone who is not disabled. 
They base their concerns on the fact Mr M, an able-bodied person, wasnt required to 
provide as much information about his income as Mrs G. They say too that Mrs Gs 
employer had provided explanations on behalf of other employees about, broadly, how they 
issue contracts of employment and why they arent signed, which had been accepted by 
lenders before. As I understand it, they say since the lender here refused to accept the 
employers explanation, it shows they were discriminating against Mrs G as a disabled 
person  and L&C should have acted on that.
Mrs G and Mr M say they warned L&C that the lenders requests were becoming 
discriminatory and unreasonable. They say the fact L&C were brokers didnt remove their 
legal responsibilities under the 2010 Act; L&C modified the lenders requests, put their own 
interpretation on what the lender was requesting and asked for additional information; and 
refused them direct access to the lender. 
Its appropriate first to consider L&Cs role. As a broker their responsibilities were to advise 
Mrs G and Mr M on a mortgage that was suitable for them based on their needs and circumstances and to submit that application on their behalf. From what Ive seen they met 
those responsibilities. They carried out a suitability assessment and applied for a mortgage 
with a five-year fixed interest rate product with a new lender as agreed with Mrs G and Mr M. 
Their job, as the application progressed, was to ensure that the lender had the information it 
needed to consider the application and come to a decision on whether to lend or not. From 
what Ive seen L&C did that. 
It's fair to say the lender made several requests for information and didnt always accept the 
documentation Mrs G and Mr M provided. But Im not persuaded L&C acted unreasonably or 
treated Mrs G and Mr M unfairly in relation to the lenders requests. It was fair for L&C to 
pass on the lenders requests for further information. The information the lender was asking 
for went to the affordability of the mortgage. It was reasonable for L&C to think the 
information was required by the lender so it could satisfy itself the application met its lending 
criteria, and - in line with Financial Conduct Authority rules - that the mortgage would be 
affordable. 
Mrs G and Mr M have acknowledged Mrs Gs earlier payslips didnt tell the whole story about 
her income since shed been off sick earlier in the year. They volunteered additional payslips 
to show her income was consistent over later months and offered the employment contract 
too to show her increased salary following a job move. I can appreciate it was frustrating that 
the employment information Mrs G was providing wasnt being accepted by the lender. 
The issue of Mrs Gs employment contract being unsigned seems to have been one that 
affected all employees within Mrs Gs organisation due to the way in which contracts were 
issued. The employer provided other evidence of her contractual terms. And I understand it 
told Mrs G and Mr M that lenders had previously accepted similar evidence from other 
employees within Mrs Gs organisation. 
I understand Mrs G and Mr M concerns that the lenders requests were discriminatory given 
what the employer was telling them. But I dont think theres any evidence L&C treated     
Mrs G unfairly here. From the information L&C have provided about the various calls they 
had with Mr M, whilst they knew Mrs G had been off sick earlier in the year, they werent 
aware of Mr Ms disability until Mr M mentioned it at the end of September 2022. The 
lenders concerns about the employment contract not being signed were discussed earlier 
than that. 
Even if it were reasonable to expect L&C to have connected the lenders refusal to accept 
the employment evidence with Mrs Gs disability sooner, Im not persuaded L&C should 
have challenged the lender for acting in a discriminatory way. Their role was to make sure 
the lender had the information it required to come to its lending decision. L&C let Mr M know 
that the lenders lending criteria required Mrs Gs employment contract to have a wet 
signature. Im not persuaded L&C were in a position to influence the lenders lending criteria. 
And even if theyd raised Mrs G and Mr Ms concerns about discrimination with the lender, 
theres no evidence to suggest the lender would have acted differently.
Mrs G and Mr M say L&C prevented them from discussing things with the lender direct and 
that the lender refused to speak to Mrs Gs employer. Although it would be usual for the 
broker to liaise with the lender, theres no bar on the applicant speaking to the lender direct. 
So, Im uncertain as to why L&C would have stopped Mr M from doing so. Theres evidence 
L&C spoke to the lender about the employment contract issue on Mrs G and Mr Ms behalf. 
And they let Mr M know in early September the lender wouldnt liaise directly with employers 
so it wouldnt be possible for Mrs Gs employer to speak to the lender. I wouldnt expect L&C 
to have been in a position to require the lender to speak to the employer direct.
L&C suggested the employer provide a written explanation as to why Mrs Gs contract wasnt signed. I think that was to help get the application through. Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for L&C to suggest additional information Mrs G and Mr M could provide. I 
think those suggestions were more likely made in the interests of getting the application 
through. On balance, I think L&C acted reasonably in trying to find a way forward.
I appreciate Mrs G and Mr M found the situation upsetting and stressful. But, considering 
everything, I dont think L&C treated them unfairly or caused any unreasonable delays. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider individual complaints. I cant consider 
L&Cs internal processes in relation to equality legislation. And our investigator was right to 
say we dont generally have the power to look into concerns about the way in which a 
complaint is handled. So, I dont consider those issues here. But I note L&C passed Mrs G 
and Mr Ms complaint on to the lender straight away and responded to the complaint against 
them within the required timescales. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs G and Mr M will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs G and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman