DRN-3247311
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the payments he made to two 
gambling merchants (M and R) which he now believes were a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations and general banking terms, banks are 
expected to execute authorised payments without undue delay. Its not in dispute that 
Mr M authorised these payments. So the starting position is that hes liable.
In some circumstances, wed expect a bank to identify a possible fraud risk and 
therefore perform further checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, 
causing its customer a fraudulent loss, it may be fair to hold it liable. Here, Lloyds 
wouldnt reasonably have identified a possible fraud risk. These were (relatively) low-
level payments that didnt appear suspicious amongst Mr Ms other account activity. 
So I dont think Lloyds was wrong to simply execute the payments in line with his 
instructions. 
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds wouldnt raise a chargeback claim. This is a voluntary 
scheme whereby the card scheme, not the bank, decides how a payment dispute 
should be resolved based on its rules. Lloyds isnt obliged to raise a claim, but Id 
expect it to do so if the claim was likely to succeed. So Ive considered whether, in 
the circumstances, Lloyds should have raised one.
The crux of the dispute is that the merchants wouldnt let Mr M withdraw his funds. 
The merchants terms say UK residents are prohibited from registering; its the users 
responsibility to check whether they can use the account in their jurisdiction; and if 
they cant, the merchant is under no obligation to offer a refund. So I cant see that 
the merchants breached the terms. But Mr M says they misrepresented the terms of 
sale, as they told him UK residents could use the accounts.
Mr M provided some screenshots, web chats and emails to Lloyds to support his 
claim. But most arent dated, so I cant see what he was told before opening his 
accounts. And some of the records seem to show Mr M talking to another online 
casino company. Ive not seen enough to show whether/how theyre the same as the 
merchants he paid directly. Under the chargeback rules, he could only raise a claim 
against M or R. The evidence doesnt show they told him he could use their services 
from the UK prior to him opening the account(s).
Thats not to say I dont empathise with Mr Ms situation. Its clear hes lost out. But 
Im not considering the actions of M or R. My role is limited to considering whether 
Lloyds acted fairly in the circumstances. Given the rules of the chargeback scheme, 
which arent set by Lloyds, I consider it reasonable that it didnt raise a chargeback 
claim. Im not persuaded there was sufficient evidence for this to succeed.
Lloyds also paid Mr M £173 for poor service - £125 for his distress and 
inconvenience, plus £48 for call costs. Ive not seen anything to suggest that more 
compensation is due to reflect the impact of Lloyds poor service on Mr M (given that 
Ive not found it should have raised a claim). So Im not awarding any more 
compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman