DRN-3587976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is that National House-Building Council trading as NHBC unfairly 
turned down a claim made under their building warranty policy.
All references to NHBC include its appointed agents.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
here.
The main fact in dispute is whether the water test that NHBC conducted when investigating 
leaks to a separate roof claim also evidenced that cracks to the render werent watertight 
either. Mr and Mrs K say it did, NHBC says it didnt.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded NHBC had successfully applied an exclusion in cover. This said that cracking to 
the render wasnt covered if it didnt affect the structural stability or weather tightness of the 
home. And they were persuaded that any water ingress which had entered the property as a 
result of NHBCs tests was unrelated to the cracked mortar.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They provided a further timeline of events and said in summary:
NHBC had acknowledged that the cement boards underneath the mortar werent 
fixed correctly, and consequently the boards continue to move and cause cracking.
NHBCs own water test showed that water does indeed ingress the property through 
the cement board cracks. Therefore, the cracks arent cosmetic but instead tangible 
pathways which lead water into the property.
The gaps across the property are widening with time and thereby increasing the 
chances of further water ingress elsewhere.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that theres damage to the property, and the evidence shows that 
the damage is consistent with issues which have most likely breached the technical 
requirements of a new build property. 
But Mr and Mrs Ks policy excludes cracking, spalling or mortar erosion, which does 
not impair the structural stability or weather tightness of your home. So, I need to 
decide if NHBC has acted fairly in relying on this exclusion to turn down the claim.
Ive considered that Mr and Mrs K got in touch with NHBC around 12 months after it 
had initially turned down the claim. And they referenced a recent water test from 
around October 2021 where water was flushed against the external wall. They say 
this resulted in significant internal water ingress and in order to minimise further 
ingress NHBC made a temporary repair to the cracks.
NHBC says the temporary repair was already in place when it carried out the test 
around October 2021 and provided photos to show this. It says it believes the repair 
was applied around February 2021 after a previous investigation.
Having considered both points of view and the available evidence, Im more 
persuaded by NHBCs conclusion. On balance Im not persuaded that the 
investigations have shown that the water ingress is linked to the cracks in the render. 
So, it follows that NHBC has acted reasonably in turning down the claim.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National House-Building Council 
trading as NHBC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman