DRN-3429774
The complaint
complaint one  changes to IISLs Trading Account 
Mr C complained that a decision by Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) to withdraw 
services he was using meant he was forced to stay with IISL for four years, during which 
time he continued to incur charges, as the option of moving to another platform would have 
meant an immediate investment loss of around £9,000.
complaint two  changes to IISLs bulletin board
Mr C is also unhappy that IISL made changes to a bulletin board system it had set up for its 
investors use, which Mr C had previously found to be a very useful information resource. 
When IISL discontinued the bulletin board and set up a new message board, which was 
opened up to a wider audience, Mr C complained this had resulted in abusive and 
defamatory exchanges, some of which he became drawn into as he objected to the one-
sided nature of the debate. 
This resulted in IISL stopping Mr C being able to post on the bulletin board.
To put things right, Mr C wants IISL to repay the £500 in charges taken since 2017. He also 
wants IISL to apologise for the way it:
implemented its new system, which he said effectively deleted years of research he 
had built up since 1997
withdrew and limited the range of trades it covered 
withdrew useful research tools
and Mr C wants IISL to admit that he was treated as a second class citizen because 
it disagreed with views he had expressed. 
Mr C says that the hassle and stress IISL has caused him is worth at least £1,000 
compensation.
What happened
Mr C had two accounts with IISL - a Trading Account and ISA  which he had opened in 
July 2014. When IISL merged with another financial services provider in 2017, it made a 
number of changes and this has led to Mr C making complaints which, to keep things 
simpler, I will deal with separately. 
complaint one  changes to IISLs Trading Account 
In 2017, Mr C had already entered into a contract (Option) with a third party call option 
writer by paying an option premium in exchange for the right to buy shares at a fixed price 
(the strike price) on or before the expiry date of the contract. 
Mr Cs investment was in a call option which had an expiry date at the end of 
December 2020. He said he had invested £10,000 which gave him the right to buy 300,000 
shares with a strike price of 90p. Potentially, he could have made a profit had the share price 
gone above the strike price before the expiry date. If that didnt happen and/or Mr C didnt 
exercise his option to buy on or before the expiry date, the contract simply ended on expiry. 
When IISL introduced system changes in 2017, it withdrew trading in this Option but offered 
Mr C no alternative to move to another platform. Mr C was unable to deal directly with the 
third party call option writer as it did not deal with retail customers. 
So Mr C felt he was obliged to keep his IISL account open since the Option was held in his 
IISL trading portfolio, he couldnt move it elsewhere and if he closed his IISL account (as he 
said he wouldve done given the choice) he would immediately lose the value of his 
investment by forfeiting the chance to make a profit on the option at any time between 2017 
and end-December 2021. 
IISL said it could not agree it had done anything wrong, but it was willing to reimburse 50% 
of Mr Cs account fees on this occasion because it was aware of delays experienced when 
Mr C gave notice of his intention to sell his shares and transfer the funds out. 
Mr C didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator felt IISL had given fair notice of account changes and it had correctly 
charged fees that it had taken from Mr C in line with his account terms and conditions. She 
didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint about the fees IISL had charged him. 
changes to IISLs bulletin/message board
As part of the changes made following the business merger in 2017, the online bulletin board 
on IISLs website, which Mr C had relied on for investment information, was replaced with 
the loss of all historic data when IISL set up a new message board. It looks like the scope of 
the discussion threads on the new message board included a wide range of issues beyond 
investment topics. Mr C sometimes engaged in exchanges that led to IISL restricting Mr Cs access to posting 
on the message board from time to time  and ultimately, to IISL permanently excluding 
Mr C from being able to make any further posts. 
IISL said it had made a business decision to revoke Mr Cs access from messaging on IISLs 
standalone and free-of-charge messaging board on its website. It told us it had taken this 
action as it considered Mr C was posting offensive and inappropriate comments, often 
containing profanity which went against the community guideline of its discussion boards. 
Our investigator also considered this part of Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend 
upholding it. She said the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt override IISLs internal 
decision to deny Mr C posting privileges. She also said that IISL had decommissioned the 
discussion boards and these were no longer offered on its website so it wasnt possible to 
reinstate Mr Cs access rights in any event. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator. He didnt think the investigator had properly 
understood his complaints. He mainly said that if the Option had expired in 2017, he would 
have closed his IISL trading and ISA accounts and moved elsewhere but as the Option had 
4 years to run and nowhere to go, he was forced to keep the accounts open. So he felt 
locked-in to IISL against his wishes by its withdrawal of service. He put it this way: my point 
is they refused to do anything at all but kept taking the charges.
Mr C wants this Service to: rule on the fact that I was forced to stay in an account I did not 
want and (was) charged for zero service.
Mr C also told us that he never agreed to any new terms and conditions.
Mr C asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said that on a point of 
principle, he did not wish to accept less than £1,000 for the annoyance and lack of customer 
service  plus he wanted account fees taken by IISL returned to him.  
So Mr Cs complaint comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that whats happened since IISL introduced changes in 2017 has been 
upsetting and frustrating for Mr C. But having thought about everything I've seen and been 
told, Ive independently reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. 
Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive considered everything both sides have provided. Its my 
role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have reached my 
conclusions. Ive focused on the core issues in deciding the complaint and no disrespect is 
intended if I do not address every point raised. I will deal with all the main points that have 
an impact on the outcome of this complaint.  Thinking first about what happened in 2017, my starting point is that I cant fairly say that 
IISL was not entitled to make a business decision to change its terms and conditions. So 
I have concentrated on looking at how it communicated and implemented the changes it 
made. 
complaint one  changes to IISLs Trading Account 
The crux of this part of Mr Cs complaint seems to me to be that Mr C feels he shouldnt 
have been charged at all for keeping his account between 2017 and end-December 2021. 
He says thats because he felt he was effectively locked-in to the account as he would 
otherwise forfeit the chance to make a profit on the Option. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I find that IISL has charged Mr C fees it 
was entitled to take from his account in line with its terms and conditions. 
From April 2017, he was charged service plan fees of £22.50 quarterly and rates and 
charges were shown the website. 
When fee changes were introduced in April 2019, IISL gave advance notice of this on its 
website  which it was entitled to do. 
IISL also contacted Mr C by secure message on 20 April 2019 to say that the existing 
quarterly pricing plan would be replaced on 1 June 2019 by a new monthly investor service 
plan. It included a link to its website which explained the new plan would be £9.99 per 
month. 
Mr C said he didnt see this, due to not logging-in to the website. But although Mr C has said 
he never agreed to new terms and conditions, his account terms and conditions allow IISL to 
communicate information in different ways, including by telephone, email or a message on 
the website. So the fact alone that Mr C missed seeing information that had been properly 
communicated via channels permitted by the terms and conditions isnt enough of a reason 
for me to uphold this part of his complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr C felt he had no choice but to keep his trading account open with IISL. 
And I sympathise with the position he found himself in. But I must be impartial. As Mr C kept 
his IISL account open, I  cant fairly say that it was unreasonable that IISL charged him 
account fees  as it was entitled to do. 
complaint two  changes to IISLs bulletin/message board
I dont find that IISL did anything wrong when it replaced its former bulletin board with a 
new message board and opened up access to new users.I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about the way this change impacted on him. I can 
understand that losing access to years worth of accumulated messages and data was a 
blow, when Mr C had come to rely on this as a source of reference and shared expertise. 
I understand Mr C had also shared some of his own investment experience via the bulletin 
board. So, when the feature was discontinued on the website, this represented the loss of a 
significant information resource and investment tool. But it was up to IISL to choose if it 
wanted to continue to offer this feature on its website  and if so, what the terms of use 
would be. So the fact that IISL replaced the former bulletin board (for whatever reason) is 
not a reason for me to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Nor have I seen enough to be able to find that IISL acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
removed posts and terminated Mr Cs ability to comment or post on the new message board. 
Mr C described this as censorship. But IISL was ultimately responsible for the content that 
appeared on its website. 
So I think it was fair for IISL to take reasonable steps to ensure that what appeared on its 
website didnt include content which it felt breached community guidelines or risked upset or 
offence. The fact that IISL made a business decision to restrict Mr Cs access is not a reason 
for me to uphold this part of Mr Cs complaint.  
My conclusions
All this leads me to the conclusion that I havent seen enough to be able to say that Mr C lost 
out financially as the result of IISL having done anything wrong or acting in a way that wasnt 
fair and reasonable. 
In saying this, I've kept in mind also that although Mr C lost money on the Option itself, 
I cannot fairly hold IISL responsible for that failed investment. 
So I think that the £140 payment already offered to Mr C, which is based on a refund of 50% 
of the account fees he has disputed, reflects a genuine understanding and acknowledgment 
on IISLs part of the frustration undoubtedly experienced by Mr C in the course of events that 
led up to this complaint. If it hadnt already volunteered this payment, I cant fairly say that 
I have seen enough to make me think it would be fair and reasonable to award any more 
than £140 in total. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. But as Im satisfied IISL dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action beyond what it has already offered.
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr C hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Interactive Investor Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £140 to Mr C and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Interactive Investor Services Limited 
should pay £140 to Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman