DRN-1661559
 
The complaint
Mrs B feels that Sainsburys Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to a purchase on her 
credit card for a holiday abroad.
What happened
Mrs B purchased a holiday abroad for her family on her Sainsburys credit card from a 
holiday company. This included flights and accommodation which was referred to as a twin 
room with balcony and interconnecting room. After paying for it she contacted the holiday 
company to check exactly the accommodation she was receiving.
On arrival at the accommodation Mrs B was expecting two bedrooms which were 
connecting. But she was provided with one room instead of two. So she complained to the 
accommodation management. In order to get what she wanted in terms of rooms she had to 
pay just over £415 for an additional room for the duration of their stay.
Mrs B complained to Sainsburys. After some correspondence, Sainsburys told Mrs B that it 
wasnt going to refund her anything for her holiday. It says that it has no reasonable prospect 
of raising a chargeback. It also feels that as the holiday wasnt misrepresented and there 
wasnt a breach of contract then it isnt liable under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. It did offer her £100 for the way it had dealt with her claim. Mrs B feels Sainsburys 
treated her unfairly all things considered. So she complained here.
The investigator said that he didnt feel that the holiday company had materially 
misrepresented the holiday to her or breached its contract here. The investigator thought 
Sainsburys position of no reasonable prospect of success on a chargeback was also fair. So 
he didnt feel Sainsburys had to do anything more than it had already offered to do. Thus 
Mrs B hadnt lost out because of Sainsburys. Mrs B doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mrs B authorised the transaction which paid for the holiday. And Mrs 
B hasnt argued that it has been wrongly applied to her account. Bearing in mind the 
evidence here Im satisfied that Sainsburys hasnt done anything wrong around the 
transaction.
Having decided the transaction itself is fair there are two possible avenues for this complaint 
to follow, namely a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (and other 
relevant legislation) or via the credit card chargeback process which is under the chargeback 
scheme rules administered by the card scheme provider (not Sainsburys).
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mrs B has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim 
against Sainsburys provided certain conditions are met. Ive considered the circumstances in 
this particular case and Im satisfied on balance that the conditions the legislation requires 
for a section 75 claim to be successful are met in this case. 
So has there been material misrepresentation or breach of contract?
Mrs B believes either the accommodation was misrepresented to her or the contract she had 
for two rooms has been breached. So she feels she should get a minimum of the extra 
money she paid to get the second proper room, if not the value of the whole holiday. She 
says the whole thing has been very difficult and stressful for her and her family.
Mrs B booked a twin room with balcony and interconnecting room. She says she took this 
to mean two proper rooms. Before arriving she thought shed check, and Ive seen 
screenshots of her asking the holiday company (amongst other things) Please confirm 
we've been allocated a room along with an interconnecting room. The holiday company 
respond Hi (Mrs B), I can see that you've been booked into a Twin Room with Balcony and 
Interconnecting room. So, satisfied with that Mrs B travelled with her family to the 
accommodation.
Sainsburys says that the booking confirmation is clear that if you want two rooms you have 
to book two rooms. It says that the holiday companys offer of half the cost of the additional 
room as a gesture of goodwill is fair. It says there was no reasonable prospect of success 
through a chargeback or any persuasive evidence of breach or misrepresentation. So it 
doesnt feel it needs to do anything.
Ive considered the holiday company advertising regarding the accommodation. It says about 
the twin room with balcony and interconnecting room Mrs B got:
These sizeable twin rooms are decorated in warm and inviting colours. All come with a 
balcony as well as air conditioning. These rooms sleep 4 with 2 extra beds in the bedroom. 
Youll need to book 2 of these room types to get 2 rooms with a connecting door.
So I think this made it sufficiently clear that if you wanted two rooms with a connecting door 
you needed two of this type of room. Mrs B booked one.
Sainsburys also point to the booking confirmation Mrs B received after making the booking. 
There is the room booking described as twin room with balcony and interconnecting room. 
Somewhat later in that confirmation under the section regarding the need to know 
information it says:
Please note when booking the twin room with balcony and interconnecting room these must 
be booked in pairs to receive two rooms.
Having considered the advertising and the booking confirmation together I think both 
separately make clear that if you want two adjoining rooms connected together you need to 
book two rooms. So Im not persuaded the advertising materially misrepresented her into 
taking accommodation she wouldnt have otherwise taken. And I dont think the booking 
confirmation told her anything she hadnt already been told.
Mrs B points to seeing and taking an upgrade during the process of booking. But there is no 
evidence from the business to support this and its clear that Mrs B didnt pay for an upgrade. 
So even if there was an upgrade during this process as Mrs B didnt pay for it she hasnt lost 
out. 
Mrs B also points to the conversation in the screenshots Ive described already. However 
this is after she made the booking so it cannot have impacted her decision to make the booking. However I would note that she is told shes been booked into a Twin Room with 
Balcony and Interconnecting room which is consistent with what shes been told up to that 
point. So I dont think this makes a difference here.
So Im not persuaded Mrs B was materially misrepresented into taking the accommodation. 
And as one room was booked and was provided to Mrs B Im not persuaded that there has 
been a breach of contract here either. So with regard to section 75 I dont think Sainsburys 
has to do anything further.
Chargeback
The chargeback process is administered by the scheme provider (not Sainsburys) and 
provides a process for banks to recover funds for its account holders in certain situations. 
Broadly speaking banks should decide whether to make a chargeback or not. But wed 
generally consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. If they do, then they must do so fairly. The merchant then 
receives that chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the 
chargeback. If it contests, then the bank (Sainsburys here) should consider this and then if it 
still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can take the chargeback to the scheme 
provider for an independent review.
In this case Sainsburys says it thought about a chargeback but decided that there wasnt a 
reasonable prospect for success. Its clear to me that Mrs B got what she paid for. Its also 
clear that the holiday company offered her as a gesture of goodwill half the extra amount she 
had to pay to get what she wanted (the second room). So I can appreciate that the holiday 
companys position would be to decline a chargeback attempt as it had already made an 
offer it didnt feel it had to. Considering the circumstances I dont think Sainsburys have done 
anything wrong by deciding not to raise a chargeback here.
Sainsburys offered Mrs B £100 for the manner in which it dealt with her issue. I dont see 
anything unfair here.
Mrs B also argues that a number of different employees that they encountered at the time 
told them that this issue around what the holiday advertise the room had happened before 
and that the description of the accommodation wasnt as good as it could have been. This 
may well be the case. But it doesnt mean Sainsburys has treated Mrs B and her family 
unfairly in what theyve decided here.
Lastly in response to the investigators view Mrs B is adamant that she ordered an 
interconnected room with a twin room, two rooms. But I think the holiday company made 
clear that if you wanted two rooms you had to book two (not the one that Mrs B booked). Not 
that it makes a difference to this decision, but I suspect Mrs B thinks an interconnecting 
room would be a bedroom with beds in it or at least a living space. I suspect to the holiday 
company an interconnecting room is little more than a doorway between rooms.
In short, Ive considered everything that Mrs B has said. I appreciate how Mrs B feels about 
the whole situation. However, I dont think what Sainsburys has done with regard to the 
Section 75 or the chargeback for the accommodation has meant that Mrs B has been treated 
unfairly. So this complaint doesnt succeed.My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Sainsburys Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman