DRN-3160694
The complaint
Miss R complains that after Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts she couldnt open 
an account elsewhere as she had been accused of fraud.
What happened
Miss R says her account at Barclays was closed in June 2019. She explains she has since 
had difficulty opening another account. She was told by a different financial business that 
this was due to information about fraud on her Barclays account. She complained to 
Barclays about this in October 2020.
Barclays said it had closed Miss Rs accounts in line with its terms and conditions. And that it 
had complied with its obligations as a regulated business.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she could 
confirm that a marker had been registered by Barclays at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database. This was for a misuse of facility. She said that in May 2019 fraudulent funds of 
£3,400 had been received into Miss Rs account. The money was quickly moved with 
approximately half withdrawn and half transferred on. Miss R hadnt responded to our 
investigators request about whether there was any unusual activity leading up to this. So, 
she considered that the marker was added correctly.
Miss R didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she didnt have 
money in her account and so hadnt been observant. It was only when her parents had sent 
her money for rent that she noticed a £900 transfer and after that her account was blocked. 
She said she hadnt seen the request from our investigator. And she didnt realise what had 
happened until later on. She had been scared by bank staff who said that the police might be 
involved and as an international student she didnt want to get into trouble. Miss R said she 
had mentioned to bank staff that she had misplaced her card but because her account was 
closed the card couldnt be blocked. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive seen evidence that the payment of £3,400 into Miss Rs account on 23 May 2019 was 
reported as being obtained fraudulently. It was also as our investigator says quickly moved 
on and there were no funds remaining.
The records from Barclays note that Miss R contacted it on 24 May 2019 after her account 
was blocked. And that she was told to go into a branch with identification. She is noted to 
have first done so on 6 June 2019 after her account had been closed on 4 June 2019. There 
is no reference to her reporting that her card had been misplaced as she now says. And I 
find it unlikely that she wouldnt want to report this as it would be material to what was 
happening on her account. Her bank statements show that she was regularly using her card 
and account. Miss R also wanted to access legitimate funds of over £2,000 sent to her 
account by relatives for her accommodation costs. So, I am struggling to understand why 
she wouldnt want to co-operate with any potential police investigation about fraud especially 
given these funds werent returned to her for some time.
On her version of events Miss R had seen some of the money at least coming into her 
account. She didnt explain how this could have happened without her consent and 
knowledge. And the money was moved on quickly. Im not persuaded on the evidence that 
its most likely Miss R wasnt a witting participant in what happened.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss R received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Rs account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss R received fraudulent funds into her account.
- She was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Miss R had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
So, Im afraid I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further. I appreciate how 
disappointed Miss R will be given what she says about the impact of the fraud marker for 
her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman