DRN-3856135
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited
landlords insurance policy for cover to bring legal claims in respect of a rental property they
own.
Mr and Mrs M say DAS treated them unfairly in withdrawing cover on one of those claims.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their DAS landlords insurance policy for cover to bring legal
claims against two different parties. The claims related to problems with a rental property
they had bought from their daughter, who had experienced similar problems in the past.
DAS initially accepted the claims and agreed to fund them. But they later discovered one of
the claims should never have been funded because there was no insured event under the
policy that would cover it. That was because the claim Mr and Mrs M wished to bring was in
negligence, not contract and they didnt have cover for this under the property damage
section of their policy. In addition, DAS concluded that the event which led to the claim took
place before the policy was in place and this wasnt a situation their policy would cover.
Following this, DAS withdrew funding but agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Ms legal costs from the
date they initially approved cover. They also offered Mr and Mrs M £500 in recognition of the
distress and inconvenience their error and subsequent loss of expectation caused. Mr and
Mrs M arent happy with this. They feel that DAS shouldnt have gone back on their initial
decision to offer funding and that they should cover the remainder of the legal fees theyve
incurred following this. Theyre also unhappy with the overall level of service theyve
received by DAS.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be
upheld. He said that although DAS had made a mistake, they had provided Mr and Mrs M
with the benefit of legal expenses cover when they werent entitled to it and the amount
theyve paid in compensation is adequate. He also said he hadnt seen anything to support
that Mr and Mrs M were in a worse position than if DAS hadnt provided initial cover for the
claim. As part of his findings the investigator referred to DAS agreeing to pay Mr and Mrs M
£855 in respect of the costs they incurred in instructing a solicitor to provide a claims
management report to DAS and that this was also reasonable. Apart from the investigators
findings in relation to the cost of the claims management report, Mr and Mrs M dont agree
with what the investigator has said, so the matter was passed to me to determine.
I issued a provision decision earlier this month not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for 
some different and some additional reasons to those reached by the investigator. In 
particular I said:
The starting point is the policy terms. They provide cover for a number of things, including
property damage but from what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Ms claim is in negligence because
they wanted to pursue the party under the Defective Premises Act 1972 and thats not
something the policy covers.
In addition, the policy requires that the date of occurrence of the event complained of
happens within the period of insurance. Date of occurrence is defined as:
The date of the event which leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at
different times from the same originating cause, then the date of occurrence is the date of
the first of these events.
In this case the event which gave rise to the claim is when the construction of the property
Mr and Mrs M purchased took place, which predates the cover they have in place. Because
of this, and the fact that cover isnt available in negligence, I agree that DAS should never
have covered the claim and that they did something wrong by agreeing to do so.
That having been said, I need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs M would have been worse off
had DAS not made the error they did and agreed to fund the claim in the way that they had
in order to uphold this complaint. Ive considered the submissions Mr and Mrs M have made
in response to this issue and, in particular that they say they wouldve made a claim on their
buildings guarantee instead if DAS had turned down their claim in the first instance. They
say the reason they didnt do this before making a claim to DAS is due to the excess payable
on the policy versus their legal expenses cover, which didnt attract an excess payment at
all.
As things stand, Mr and Mrs M did later make a claim on that guarantee which was turned
down because it was notified too late. The claim itself was the subject of a different
complaint to this Service which it wasnt upheld by another Ombudsman. Part of this
Services inquisitorial remit can extend to contacting parties who arent party to the specific
complaint were being asked to consider. In this case I asked the investigator to contact the
business thats responsible for the buildings guarantee to ascertain whether they would have
covered Mr and Mrs Ms claim under that guarantee if DAS had turned down their claim for
legal expenses insurance at the earliest opportunity. DAS have said that the earliest they
could have turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim for cover from them would have been late
April 2021 on receipt of the claims management report from Mr and Mrs Ms own solicitor.
Thats because the report provided a detailed summary of events and notes about the
replacement of the subject propertys roof in 2018 as well as an explanation of the type of
claim Mr and Mrs M wanted to pursue in relation to it. The business responsible for the
building guarantee have said that even if Mr and Mrs M had claimed on the guarantee in
April 2021, cover would still not have been available because it wouldve been notified too
late in relation to the periods of cover it offers a guarantee for. And that accords with the
other Ombudsmans findings in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the guarantee
claim being turned down. Because of this Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M werent prejudiced
by DAS failure to turn down their claim earlier such that they wouldve received an
alternative solution from the building guarantee.
Ive also thought about whether Mr and Mrs M wouldve done something differently if DAS
had turned down funding in the first instance. Mr and Mrs M say that because DAS agreed to
cover their claim, they were forced to commission and pay for a surveyors report
themselves after cover was withdrawn as well as continuing solicitors costs. Ive thought
about this. Mr and Mrs M wanted their own solicitor to act for them in their claim. So they
instructed a firm to draft a claims management report on their behalf in order for DAS to
consider funding their costs. Thereafter DAS offered to pay that firm £100 per hour plus VAT
in accordance with their standard terms of appointment. I havent seen anything to suggest
Mr and Mrs M picked up any shortfall in their solicitors hourly rate, so they werent
disadvantaged by paying for any additional fees.
The issue they refer to is continuing to fund things after DAS withdrew funding. From whatIve seen, Mr and Mrs Ms claim wasnt being litigated. Rather it was still pre action. So,
although they felt they were making progress with the party they were claiming against, they
werent obliged to continue funding either solicitors fees or surveyors costs. And given the
building guarantee would never have covered them if the claim had been declined initially, I
think its likely they would have sought to fund the claim privately themselves as theyre
doing now. I say so because Mr and Mrs M have chosen to do this even though theyre not
obliged to on the basis that they arent able to pursue a claim in another way; namely under
their building guarantee. So, I dont think that theyve lost anything by DAS paying for them
to pursue the claim in error. And whilst I know Mr and Mrs M dont agree, they have had the
benefit of legal cover that wouldnt otherwise have been available to them if DAS had
correctly declined their claim from the outset.
Finally, I understand Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors costs in completing the claims management
report remains in issue. Our investigator thought it was reasonable for DAS to pay these
costs and referred to DAS agreeing to them. Having reviewed things, I think theres been
some confusion around the issue, particularly on DAS part. DAS initially said they were
prepared to fund any costs incurred by the solicitor in completing the report but later
changed their position. They said this was on the basis that cover wasnt in place at the time
Mr and Mrs M decided to instruct their solicitors to submit this report on their behalf. In
addition, the costs contained in the £855 referred to in the investigators view arent solely in
relation to the solicitor providing the report. Rather they cover other matters including
speaking and corresponding with Mr and Mrs M.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling on this issue and appreciate that they felt
they should be compensated for these costs. But I dont agree that DAS need to cover them.
Mr and Mrs M chose to instruct their own solicitor where there was no freedom of choice to
do so under the policy or in accordance with our approach to that issue. DAS agreed to that
instruction when they werent obliged to. DAS would only have been obliged to fund Mr and
Mrs Ms own solicitors costs from the point at which proceedings became necessary,
assuming cover was correctly in place. So, I dont think its reasonable to require DAS to
fund Mr and Mrs Ms own solicitors costs until they expressly agreed to. Because this wasnt
until after the claims management report was completed, I cant say that DAS need to pay
this invoice. And I note that the costs claimed dont in any event relate entirely to the solicitor
completing and filing the claims management report.
Finally, Ive considered the offer DAS have made of £500 for the stress and loss of
expectation DAS caused Mr and Mrs M for funding their claim initially then withdrawing
cover. Like the investigator, I agree that this amount accords with our award limits for similar
issues and is adequate in the circumstances. If Mr and Mrs M havent already accepted this
amount, then they should contact DAS directly.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M have said they dont 
accept my findings. Theyve made a number of submissions, which Ive summarised below. 
Theyve also made additional submissions about the final decision they received in respect 
of their building guarantee complaint. As the investigator explained, I cant comment on 
those submissions because they dont relate to the specific complaint Im deciding here, and 
in any case that matter has now concluded because a final decision marks the end of our 
process. 
In response to the complaint Im deciding, Mr and Mrs M say:
They understand they were not entitled to choose their own solicitors when they did but 
DAS allowed them to do so after they explained their worries about having to potentially 
visit a solicitors office in person and their preference of using a solicitor in their home 
town due to health reasons. Because DAS agreed to this, they feel the £855 claimed should be met by them.
The fees claimed do relate to their solicitor speaking to them because this was required 
to in order for those solicitors to fact find in advance of generating a claims management 
report.
The investigator said DAS agreed to meet the costs claimed, so they should now honour 
this.
DAS shouldnt have accepted their claim for legal expenses cover in the first instance but 
given they did, they should pay all of the costs that followed.
Their complaint against DAS should have been decided before their complaint against 
the building guarantee insurer was determined.
They are now left without help to resolve things with the party they were claiming 
against.
I asked DAS to comment on Mr and Mrs Ms submissions about their having approved the 
use of their own solicitors. DAS said that they did agree to this, but they didnt agree to the 
cost of the claims management report being completed by those solicitors. DAS sent us a 
copy of their call note with Mr M. The note records that DAS tried to persuade him to use 
their panel firm but he didnt want that given his age. The note also records that Mr M 
wanted local solicitors so he could have face to face contact. DAS have also sent a copy of 
their email to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors after this call took place, which says:
We are prepared to consider your appointment but will require full details of the claim to 
enable us to confirm all policy criteria have been met. In particular, we need to establish the 
claim has reasonable prospects of success. To assist with our decision making, we require 
you to complete the attached Claims Management Report (CMR). 
We would stress this letter should not be taken as confirmation of your appointment, or as 
authority to incur costs under our insureds policy. For the avoidance of doubt, indemnity will 
not commence until we are satisfied there are reasonable prospects of success and we have 
agreed the Working Together Document.
DAS havent commented on my provisional findings beyond that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs Ms policy shouldnt be upheld.
I know that Mr and Mrs M are disappointed with DAS position on the payment of their costs 
prior to cover being confirmed. But I havent seen anything to suggest that DAS did agree to 
these costs being paid in advance of this complaint being brought to us. The 
correspondence I have seen suggests it was made clear to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors that 
DAS wouldnt fund their costs until they accepted the claim and agreed indemnity was in 
place.
I appreciate that there was a suggestion that DAS would pay Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors costs 
in completing the claims management report after their complaint was brought to us, but the 
correspondence Ive seen about this from DAS is contradictory. On one hand DAS talk about 
their settlement offer including the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor, referencing the 
prospects assessment by way of a claims management report, but on the other they say 
they wont accept any costs that havent been specifically agreed to or authorised. I know this doesnt help Mr and Mrs M, so in deciding this issue, Ive thought about the 
position in line with our general approach, which Ive set out in my provisional decision. Ive 
also overlaid this with what Mr and Mrs M have said about DAS agreeing to the instruction of 
their own solicitor. I agree that DAS did agree to this instruction but after considering what 
both parties have said and the correspondence, Im not persuaded that DAS also agreed to 
fund Mr and Mrs Ms costs prior to indemnity being accepted. What Ive seen makes clear 
there was no cover for this before the complaint was brought to us. Given our approach and 
what both parties have said as well as the correspondence before the complaint was brought 
to us, I dont think its reasonable for us to expect DAS to fund these costs. So, whilst I 
accept there was some confusion about this issue after the complaint was brought to us, I 
dont think its fair to interpret this in favour of Mr and Mrs M because its not consistent with 
how we would approach this type of complaint and theres nothing exceptional that makes 
me think I should depart from this. Consequently, whether those costs were incurred in Mr 
and Mrs Ms solicitors doing more than exclusively completing and filing the claims 
management report makes no difference. 
I know that Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that DAS should accept the costs of their claim, at 
least from the point that they agreed to cover them until conclusion. Ive already explained 
why I think DAS shouldnt have accepted the claim for legal expenses cover in the first 
instance but given there was no detriment to Mr and Mrs M in their doing so (for reasons I 
have also explained in some detail) Im not persuaded that need to do this. The fact that Mr 
and Mrs M are left without recourse on their buildings guarantee, other than funding the 
claim themselves is unfortunate, but this doesnt mean that DAS need to pay their costs 
beyond the amount theyve already accepted. Legal expenses insurers arent obliged to 
cover every claim made to them. In this case the claim was accepted in error. So Mr and Ms 
M would have been no better off had it been turned down in the first instance. Instead they 
benefited from a period of cover they wouldnt otherwise have had if the claim had been 
correctly declined. 
Finally, I think its important to point out that it wouldnt have mattered whether Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint in respect of the building guarantee was decided before this one. My findings 
werent reliant on the other Ombudsmans decision, but they were helped by them. Thats 
because the business responsible for the building guarantee made clear that even if Mr and 
Mrs M had claimed on the guarantee in April 2021, cover would still not have been available 
because it wouldve been notified too late in relation to the periods of cover it offers a 
guarantee for. So, there was nothing to suggest cover would otherwise been available had 
DAS turned down their legal expenses insurance claim in the first instance. Because of this I 
dont agree that the order in which these complaints were decided has had any impact on 
the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman