DRN-3470026
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a misleading claim by a property search company.
What happened
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Mr D or Santander, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision. 
Mr D was seeking potential rental property to acquire. A company, which I will call P, made 
him aware of a property which it thought might interest him. I gather he was told by a 
representative of P that the property was owner occupied and on 23 February 2021 Mr D 
paid a finders fee of £3,600 by credit card. He was told a few weeks later that the property 
was tenanted and the tenant was due to move out on 1 April 2021. P says that the property 
was empty as of that date, but I have noted in one email Mr D disputed that.
P explained that the vendor had not told it that the property was vacant as the tenant was 
due to move out very soon and it was being sold with vacant possession. In an email dated 
22 March 2021 P said: As we are remote from this property, we are reliant on information 
provided by the seller or local agents, however any issues will be picked up during the 
conveyancing process and we will do our best to rectify this. We will be keeping close eye on 
this, and we do not advise you to exchange contracts until it has been confirmed that it is 
vacant as required. 
Mr D says that he was not given documentary evidence of the tenants intention to vacate the 
property and so decided not to proceed.
Mr D asked for refund as he had been misled and explained that he was not interested in a 
tenanted property. He noted that the current tenant was paying 20% less than he had been 
led to believe was achievable. P refused to refund the payment and said that under its terms 
and conditions monies were not refundable.
Mr D contacted Santander and it considered a claim under section 75, but concluded that P 
was acting on the basis of information provided by the seller or the agent and was not 
responsible for any misrepresentation. It suggested that a chargeback be attempted but this 
was declined by the card scheme owner.
Mr D appealed but Santander did not change its view. It says that it tried to contact Mr D by 
phone on three occasions following the appeal but without success. Mr D says that no 
reasoning was given for the rejection of his appeal. His subsequent complaint was rejected 
and so he brough the matter to this service. His complaint was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt consider there had been either 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by P. She considered it had quite reasonably 
relied on the information supplied by the vendor or agent. 
Mr D didnt agree and said P had not taken sufficient steps to ensure it provided accurate 
information. He also felt Santander had been selective in the extracts it used from the terms 
and conditions. Nor had it addressed his comments on the unfair terms in the contract. 
Finally, he said that Santander hadnt addressed his appeal properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied the required debtor-creditor-supplier link is in place and so I must consider the 
second leg of the section.
Much hangs on what P was obliged to do under the contract and the key section is 9. This 
reads: 
9. [P] shall endeavour to ensure that all information passed to You about any property is 
accurate and does not mislead. However, [P] are not responsible for the accuracy of any 
information provided to [P] by the sellers of properties or their agents or for the accuracy of 
any entry in any public register, and shall not be liable for any loss or damage resulting from 
the inaccuracy of any such information. [P] shall use reasonable endeavours to highlight any 
material inaccuracies of which it or they are aware, but shall not verify any information 
provided to it or them unless instructed by You to do so.
It is clear that P is not responsible for the inaccuracy of any information it provides, but the 
central point made by Mr D is that it failed to use its reasonable endeavours to be satisfied 
that the property was owner occupied. The property was not close to P and so it was not a 
simple matter for it to visually check it was not tenanted. That said I am not sure that a 
simple visual inspection would have been sufficient. 
It was told by the seller or agent that the properly was vacant and it took that on trust. I have 
seen nothing to suggest that there were grounds to doubt that claim. The seller or agent took 
the view that as the tenant was due to move out the property was effectively tenant free. 
While this is not an unreasonable view to have taken clearly it would have been preferrable if 
the information provided to P had been more detailed. 
That said, I find myself in agreement with both Santander and our investigator that it was not 
necessary for P to validate all the information provided by the seller or agent. It simply 
shared the details of the property it had been given and the reality is that I believe was 
possible for Mr D to have acquired the property with vacant possession had he pursued the 
purchase.
If the property been described as a five bedroomed detached property and it later turned out to have been a three-bed semi I can see that this would amount to a material 
misrepresentation. In this case the issue was less clear cut. While I have noted Mr Ds 
comments on the distinction between owner occupied and tenant occupied property in the 
circumstances where the tenancy was due to end before the purchase was completed or 
contracts exchanged I do not consider the inaccuracy to have been as significant as he has 
suggested.
In any event the seller or agent is not part of the debtor-creditor-supplier chain and its 
actions are not directly relevant to this complaint. 
Overall, I cannot say that Santander was wrong to reach the conclusion that the claim did 
not satisfy the requirements of section 75.
As for the matter of the chargeback it may assist if I explain how that system works. 
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
Santander had been in contact with P in the course of its consideration of the section 75 
claim and it was clear that any chargeback claim would be rebutted and unlikely to succeed. 
Nor did it believe there were grounds which met Mastercards rules. So, I dont believe 
Santander was unreasonable in its decision not to pursue a chargeback.  
While it might have been preferable had Santander been better able to explain its reasons 
why it rejected Mr Ds appeal I am satisfied that it sought to do so. However, it wasnt obliged 
to accept his claim and I am satisfied that it gave the matter fair consideration before 
reaching what I consider to be a fair conclusion.
On the matter of the fairness of the contract I consider this to be a matter best addressed by 
the courts should Mr D wish to pursue that point, but I do not consider it allows me to uphold 
this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed by my decision but I do not consider I can uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman