DRN-2435678
The complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), trading as TSB at the time, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr Ws complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy, which ran alongside a credit card he took 
out in May 1996. Its not clear when the PPI was added to Mr Ws credit card account, but 
Lloyds has told us its likely it was sold to Mr W somewhere between May 1996 and January 
2000.
The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mr Ws outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr W that the policy was optional, and it had to get his consent 
before applying PPI to his account. Lloyds says it would have done this, but Mr W says he 
wasnt aware PPI was added. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened 
when the PPI was sold. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Lloyds cases involving various methods of sales 
from around the same period Mr W would have been sold his PPI. Using what I know 
generally of Lloyds sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mr W would 
have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Lloyds would have gained his 
consent before adding it to his credit card account. 
In addition to this, I can see the PPI appeared on Mr Ws credit card statements as 
PAYMENTS INSURANCE - PREMIUM and I think this is quite prominent. So, while Mr W 
says he didnt know he had PPI, I think its likely he would have seen this and if he wasnt 
sure what it was for, I would have expected him to query the transactions with Lloyds much 
sooner. 
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mr W was aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time. I note that Mr W says he has 
no recollection of taking out the credit card either, so its understandable if he doesnt 
remember this now  some 24 years later.
Mr W says he didnt receive any advice from Lloyds. But Lloyds doesnt know how the policy 
was sold, so its reviewed the sale as though advice was given. This puts more responsibility 
on Lloyds  it means it had to check the policy was suitable for Mr W. So, in fairness to him, 
Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was given.
Based on what Mr Ws told us about his circumstances at the time, the policy appears to 
have been suitable for him. I say this because from the information Ive seen, Mr W was 
eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that 
might have made it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing 
medical condition, or unusual employment circumstances.
Mr W says he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer and he had less than three 
months other means he could have used. But the policy would have paid out on top of 
anything Mr W received from his employer and potentially for longer. Mr W could also have 
claimed again subject to a requalification period. So, I think Mr W still could have found the 
cover useful if he fell on hard times.
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mr W. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr W, Lloyds also needed to give him 
enough information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mr W, I dont think better information would have made a difference to his decision to buy 
it. It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman