DRN-2037252
The complaint
Mr H and Miss Q complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid them the incorrect 
surrender amount when they surrendered their endowment policy in October 2010. They 
have since been paid an additional amount and complain that had they known the correct 
value at the time, they would have continued with the policy. 
What happened
Mr H and Miss Q originally took out the endowment policy as a means of repaying their 
mortgage. I understand the policy was sold in 1994 with a sum assured and target of 
£76,500. 
They complained about the sale of the policy in 2005 and again in 2011. When they found 
out the policy wasnt performing as they were led to believe they ceased to use it for 
mortgage repayment purposes; they sold their house and decided to continue using the 
policy towards their retirement. 
Mr H and Miss Q made several enquiries over the course of 2010 about the surrender value 
of the policy. And in October 2010 they decided to surrender it. They complained about the 
surrender value received at the time. Aviva considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, it 
was satisfied they had received the correct value. That complaint was referred to this office 
and considered by an adjudicator (it isnt clear if it was also referred for a decision as we no 
longer hold any records). The adjudicator found the surrender value was correct and there 
was no basis on which to ask Aviva to increase it by the amount of premium paid between 
January and October 2010. 
It appears Aviva conducted a review a few years later and discovered the surrender value 
Mr H and Miss Q had been paid wasnt correct  they should have been paid £491.65 more. 
So it sent a cheque to them plus an additional amount for interest bringing the total payment 
to £508.50. This was originally sent to an old address and in around 2014 Mr H and Miss Q 
became aware of it, and Aviva then paid it to their bank account. 
Mr H and Miss Q have now complained about the incorrect value and say they would have 
kept the policy going had they known the true value at the time. Aviva upheld their complaint 
in part and offered £100 for the incorrect value being paid, but it refused to comment further 
on the surrender value as that complaint had already been considered by this office. 
Our investigator was satisfied Aviva had fairly resolved the complaint. It was agreed Aviva 
had made a mistake, but the investigator wasnt persuaded Mr H and Miss Q would have 
made a different decision had they known the correct surrender value at the time. This was 
because the policy was projected to suffer a significant shortfall at maturity, and they didnt 
want to keep paying more in premiums than the policy would pay out. She also noted that 
even with the additional correction, the surrender value still wouldnt have increased by the 
amount of premiums paid. 
Mr H and Miss Q have asked for the matter to be reviewed. They are unhappy with how their 
complaints have been handled at this office and want their 2012 complaint looked at again, 
as its clear the value they were paid was wrong and so our outcome was wrong also. They 
are also unhappy that Aviva kept over £7,000 of their bonuses; had they known the correct 
value at the time, they wouldnt have surrender it but kept it until maturity thereby getting 
their bonuses. They only surrendered it because, at the time; it was losing over £500 a year 
which meant they would have been considerably out of pocket. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above and I would like to 
reassure all the parties that I have read and considered everything in its entirety. 
I understand Mr H and Miss Q have been unhappy with the policy for some considerable 
time. And I note their continued reference to the policy having been mis-sold. But from the 
information provided this office considered a complaint about the sale of the policy in 2005 
and we were asked to consider the same complaint again in 2010/11. At that time we 
dismissed the complaint as it had already been considered. As that complaint has already 
been reviewed by us, and no material new evidence likely to affect the outcome has been 
provided, that matter wont be revisited. 
Mr H and Miss Q have asked us to reconsider their complaint about the surrender value. 
What our investigator explained was right, we wouldnt usually relook at something we have 
already investigated. But it is clear here that material new evidence has come to light  that 
Aviva didnt calculate their surrender value correctly. However, Aviva has already put that 
right by paying Mr H and Miss Q the correct value. And I note that Mr H and Miss Qs 
complaint at the time was that the surrender value paid in October 2010 was lower than that 
quoted in January 2010 (based on the limited information provided by Mr H  the 
adjudicators outcome letter of May 2012). The adjudicator found that wasnt the case as the 
values had increased between time. Im not persuaded Avivas correction changes the 
outcome of that complaint such that it should now be reconsidered. 
I turn now to Mr H and Miss Qs complaint they would have continued with the policy had 
they known the correct surrender value and thereby would have received their bonuses. But 
Im not persuaded by their testimony. 
Aviva has been able to provide some records from when we dismissed Mr H and Miss Qs 
mis-sale complaint in 2011, including correspondence from Mr H and Miss Q. It is clear from 
that correspondence and their later arguments that they were aware the value of the policy 
and its surrender value were two different things. With a With Profits policy  which is a 
pooled investment  there is always a difference between the actual value and the surrender 
value. And when looking at what growth the policy has achieved it is the actual value that 
should be considered not the surrender value. That can only usually be ascertained after the 
annual addition of bonuses. Mr H and Miss Q clearly understood the then value of the policy 
was around £27,000 but that on surrender they would receive around £21,400. And they 
proceeded with surrendering the policy despite knowing its actual value was far higher. 
I have also taken account of the correspondence between Mr H and Miss Q, us and Aviva at 
the time. And the comments and complaints made by them show they were far from happy 
with the policy, with such comments as get away with selling products that are not fit for 
purpose, ..sell it (Joke! NO ONE WANTS IT), any fool can see this product is going to 
make no where near the £77,000 and is more likely to return around £40,000 .   This 
same correspondence, dated June 2010, says but no-one can offer more than the surrender 
value which you have quoted today as £21,882 which is a joke as this is only what we have paid into the policy over the years. Had Aviva given the correct surrender value in October 
2010 it would have been in the region of £21,960, a very small amount higher than the 
surrender value given in June, which Mr H and Miss Q described as a joke. These dont 
strike me as the comments of policyholders who had any intention of retaining their policy. 
And given they believed the June value was a joke, Im not persuaded they would have kept 
their policy had they known the correct surrender value in October  it was less than £100 
higher. Given their strength of feeling about being wronged and their clear unhappiness with 
the policy, Im not persuaded by their arguments that they would have kept the policy until 
maturity had they been given the correct surrender value in October 2010. It follows that I 
find no basis on which to require Aviva to pay the bonuses they ask for. 
I accept Mr H and Miss Q will have been caused some worry when finding out they had been 
paid the wrong figure. However, Aviva put that wrong right by paying them an additional 
amount to correct that and some interest  in line with what we would have asked it to do. It 
also offered £100 compensation for the impact of what went wrong. In all the circumstances, 
I find this amount a fair reflection of the impact of finding out the wrong amount had been 
paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have 
already fairly resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr H and Miss Q £100 compensation 
if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman