DRN-4354656
The complaint
Mr M complains that GE Money Home Finance Limited wont refund to him the money that 
he paid for some holiday club membership points. Hes being represented in his complaint 
by a legal adviser.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
Mr M and his wife entered into a purchase agreement to buy some holiday club 
membership points in February 1997. The purchase price of the membership points 
was £5,950 and Mr M entered into a loan agreement with a finance provider for a 
loan of £6,600.81 and he agreed to make monthly payments of £118.29 to the 
finance provider. He also entered into a credit agreement with the finance provider 
for life cover in connection with the loan at a cost of £496.82 which he agreed to pay 
by 118 monthly payments of £8.97. Part of the finance providers business, including 
the loan agreement, was transferred to GE Money Home Finance in 2003. Mr Ms 
wife sadly passed away in 2007.
Mr Ms then representative made claims to GE Money Home Finance in August 2019 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that 
misrepresentations were made during the sales process which induced Mr M and his 
wife into the purchase agreement and that unfair initial contract negotiations and 
sales tactics were used. It also said that Mr M wished for there to be a full 
investigation into any payment protection insurance on the loan. Mr Ms 
representative didnt receive a response to those claims so Mr M complained to this 
service in October 2019. Mr Ms representative has changed since then.
GE Money Home Finance responded to those claims in March 2022. It apologised for 
the time taken to reply to the claims and said that, due to an administrative error, the 
claim wasnt correctly logged on its systems and it offered to pay £50 to Mr M to 
compensate him for its error. It said that any claim that Mr M may have had under 
section 75 would be statute barred under the Limitation Act 1980. It also said that it 
had been unable to locate Mr Ms loan account and the term of the loan agreement 
shows that his account would have redeemed before 6 April 2008, which was prior to 
the implementation of section 140A, so he was unable to bring a claim under section 
140A.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said 
that Mr M had purchased the membership in March 1997 but didnt contact GE 
Money Home Finance about it until August 2019 so he thought that his section 75 
claim was made outside of the time limits in the Limitation Act. He also said that the 
loan agreement was due to last for 118 months and, as it was taken out in March 
1997, it was due to run until January 2007, so he thought that it was likely that the 
account had been closed for more than six years before Mr Ms section 140A claim 
was raised.
Mr Ms representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. It said that a full substantive response would follow upon receipt 
of instructions from Mr M  but no such response has been received.
GE Money Home Finance says that this complaint falls outside of this services 
jurisdiction because the loan was made prior to it having jurisdiction over Consumer 
Credit Act regulated loans, which commenced on 6 April 2007. It also says that the 
finance provider became GE Money Home Finance on 31 October 2003 and GE 
Money Home Finance is no longer regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority from 
29 March 2016 so this service doesnt have jurisdiction to investigate Mr Ms 
complaint.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
We dont have a free hand to consider every complaint thats referred to us. Our 
rules for considering complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution section of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook of rules and guidance.
Mr Ms complaint is that his claims under sections 75 and 140A have been turned 
down. Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of 
goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met).
The activity about which Mr M is complaining is GE Money Home Finances decision 
to turn down his section 75 claim  and, for this service to be able to consider a 
complaint about that activity, it must have been a regulated activity at the time that it 
took place.
GE Money Home Finance says that the loan was made to Mr M by the finance 
provider in March 1997 and that the finance provider became GE Money Home 
Finance on 31 October 2003. GE Money Home Finance stopped being regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority on 29 March 2016. Mr Ms then representative didnt 
make a section 75 claim to GE Money Home Finance about its liability for the holiday 
companys alleged misrepresentations until August 2019. Mr Ms complaint was 
made to this service in October 2019 and GE Money Home Finance responded to Mr 
Ms claim in March 2022.
Mr Ms representatives claims were made to GE Money Home Finance after GE 
Money Home Finance stopped being regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority so 
its consideration of Mr Ms section 75 claim at that time wasnt a regulated activity. I 
find that this service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms complaint about GE 
Money Home Finances response to his section 75 claim.
Mr Ms representatives letter also referred to claims under section 140A. Section 
140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a creditor to repay 
any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that theres an 
unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor  but it didnt come into force 
until April 2007 and applies to credit agreements covered by the Consumer Credit 
Act (including those taken out before 6 April 2007, as long as they were still in force 
on 6 April 2008).
I havent been provided with a copy of the loan agreement that Mr M would have 
signed for the loan that the finance provider made to him in March 1997. But I have 
been provided with a copy of the credit agreement that Mr M signed in March 1997 for life cover in connection with the loan at a cost of £496.82 which he agreed to pay 
by 118 monthly payments of £8.97. Ive also been provided with a copy of a letter 
from the finance provider to Mr M in March 1997 about the loan which says that the 
monthly payments would start in April 1997.
I consider it to be more likely than not that the loan agreement was taken out in 
March 1997 and that it would have had the same term of 118 months as the credit 
agreement. If the first payment under the loan agreement was made in April 1997, 
the 118th payment would have been payable in January 2007. GE Money Home 
Finance says that its been unable to trace a record for the loan to Mr M and he 
hasnt provided any evidence about his payments under the loan.
In the absence of any persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise, I dont consider that 
its unreasonable to conclude that its more likely that not that the loan would have 
been repaid by Mr M before 6 April 2008 and, on that basis, I dont consider that 
section 140A applied to his loan so he wouldnt be able to make a claim that his 
relationship with the finance provider was unfair.
Even if Mr Ms loan did continue after 6 April 2008 so that he was able to make a 
claim under section 140A, the courts have said, when considering such claims, that 
the time for limitation purposes runs from the date that the credit agreement ended (if 
it was not still running at the time the claim was made) and the limitation period for a 
claim under section 140A is six years.
Mr Ms representatives claim under section 140A was made to GE Money Home 
Finance in August 2019 so the loan agreement would need to have ended in August 
2013 (or later) for Mr M to be able to make a claim under section 140A. The loan 
would need to have continued for more than 16 years from March 1997 for Mr M to 
be able to make such a claim. Ive seen no evidence to show that the loan continued 
after August 2013 and I dont consider it to be likely that it did so. I consider it be 
more likely that GE Money Home Finance would have a defence to any such claim 
and I find that it wouldnt have been unreasonable for it to have rejected the claim.
Mr Ms representative said that Mr M wished for there to be a full investigation into 
any payment protection insurance on the loan. Hes provided a copy of the credit 
agreement for life cover in connection with the loan but not any other information 
about the life cover. I dont consider that the life cover was payment protection 
insurance, Ive seen no evidence to show that any payment protection insurance was 
sold to Mr M by the finance provider in connection with the loan and Im not 
persuaded that theres any evidence to show that the life cover was mis-sold to Mr M.
GE Money Home Finance apologised for the time taken to reply to Mr Ms claims and 
said that, due to an administrative error, the claim wasnt correctly logged on its 
systems and it offered to pay him £50 to compensate him for its error. If Mr M hasnt 
received that compensation and now wishes to accept it, I suggest that he contacts 
GE Money Home Finance about it. I sympathise with Mr M for the loss of his wife and 
the issues that hes had with his membership points, but I find that it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require GE Money Home Finance to 
refund him any of the money that he paid under the loan agreement, to pay him any 
other compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from any of Mr M, his 
representative and GE Money Home Finance, my provisional decision was that: this service 
isnt able to consider Mr Ms complaint about GE Money Home Finances response to his 
claim under section 75; Mr M isnt able to make a claim to GE Money Home Finance under section 140A in these circumstances; and I dont intend to uphold his complaint about 
payment protection insurance.
Both GE Money Home Finance and Mr Ms representative have acknowledged receipt of my 
provisional decision, GE Money Home Finance says that it has nothing further to add and 
Ive received no further comments or evidence from Mr M or his representative.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only considering whether or not Mr M is able to make a claim to GE 
Money Home Finance under section 140A and his complaint about payment protection 
insurance. Ive issued a separate decision as to whether or not this service is able to 
consider Mr Ms complaint about GE Money Home Finances response to his claim under 
section 75.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I find that Mr M isnt able to make a claim 
to GE Money Home Finance under section 140A in these circumstances and I dont uphold 
his complaint about payment protection insurance.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr M isnt able to make a claim to GE Money Home Finance under 
section 140A in these circumstances and I dont uphold his complaint about payment 
protection insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman