DRN-3501997
The complaint
Mrs O, represented by her husband Mr O, complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC 
refused to refund her for transactions which she said she didnt make.
What happened
In the early hours of the morning on 8 July 2021, six online debits were made to Mrs Os 
Barclays account. The total of these was £2,239.
Later that day, Mrs O rang Barclays. She said she hadnt authorised any of the six 
transactions. She explained that five had been sent to payees she didnt recognise, and one 
to her friend. 
Barclays investigated, but it turned down Mrs Os claim that the transactions had been 
fraudulent. She complained. 
In Barclays final response letter, it said that it had declined the claim because no third party 
access had been established on her account. The disputed transactions had been 
completed using Mrs Os genuine device, debit card, and Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) 
details.
Mrs O had also complained that she hadnt had a notification about all six debits. Barclays 
said that it didnt send a message for every transfer made, and said she could find out more 
about notifications from its phone helpdesk.
Mrs O wasnt satisfied and complained to this service, represented by her husband Mr O. 
Mrs O said she was devastated by the outcome. She also said that her friend, to whom £14 
had been transferred as one of the six disputed transactions, had paid £14 back to her. Mr 
O, representing Mrs O, said the phone had been on Mrs Os bedside table, and the children 
were too young to be able to log onto the banking app.
Mrs O also said that she thought Barclays security, which alerts customers when money 
goes out, hadnt been working. She said there had been more attempted transactions later in 
July, and Barclays had sent an alert and blocked those. Mrs O said she hadnt shared her 
details with anyone, and had had her phone that night. Her card and phone hadnt been lost 
or stolen. Mrs O said that not stopping the six disputed transactions was clear evidence of 
the incompetence of Barclays fraud team.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. She said that the genuine card had been 
used to set up the new payees, with the banking app on Mrs Os phone. And the IP address 
(an internet location identifier) had been used before and after, for transactions which Mrs O 
hadnt disputed. 
Mrs O, represented by Mr O, didnt agree. She said the IP address which had been used for 
the transactions was different from their home address. She said that she sometimes did 
transactions at work, and her phone could have been hacked, as it had been quite difficult to 
turn off that night. Shed been at home, so she hadnt done the transactions. And she said 
that the fact shed used the same IP address before was too harsh, because shed have 
used the Wi-fi for various places where she had worked. She said Barclays had failed in its 
duty to protect her money, and they wanted justice, and Barclays must take responsibility for 
its security failings. Mrs O asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant ones for Mrs Os 
dispute are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if 
the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise 
them. 
Ive looked at the technical records for these transactions. 
- Mrs Os Barclays Mobile Banking was logged into shortly before the disputed 
transactions. Logging into this needs a five digit passcode, which customers create 
themselves when registering for Barclays Mobile Banking;
- The records show that Mrs Os registered phone was used for the login;
- The IP address used was one which had consistently been used for previous logins 
before the disputed transactions  and which continued consistently to be used for 
logins after the disputed transactions;
- There were also no failed attempts to log in either before or after.
I recognise that Mrs O and her representative Mr O have argued that Mrs O sometimes 
made transactions when at work, and theyve said that her phone could have been hacked, 
because the phone was difficult to turn off that day. Certainly in the previous months there 
had been a few genuine transactions which had used a different IP address, which may well 
have been when Mrs O was at work. But the IP address which is by far the most consistently 
used on Mrs Os account, both before and after the disputed transactions, was the one 
which was used for these six disputed transactions.
Ive also taken into account the requirements for setting up a new payee, which some of 
these were. Setting up a new payee would have needed Mrs Os debit card including the 
long 16-digit number, the expiry date, and the CVV security code on the back of the card. 
Mrs O has said that the card remained in her possession and no-one else would have 
accessed the details.
I recognise that Mrs O has said that she didnt authorise the payments. But as she hadnt 
lost her card, or her phone, or both, I cant see how any fraudulent third party could have 
obtained all Mrs Os security information and devices, and be in Mrs Os normal location with 
all of these while making payments. And I think its highly unlikely that a fraudster would 
have sent a payment to someone who was already one of Mrs Os payees, because there 
wouldnt have been any obvious benefit in doing so. Nor do I think that the fact that Mrs Os 
friend repaid her the £14 which had been transferred to her, proves that the payments had 
been carried out by a third party.
Ive considered Mrs Os argument that Barclays should have prevented the six disputed 
transactions. But regardless of whether Barclays notified her of these transactions or not, it 
wouldnt make a difference to the outcome Ive reached here. I say this because the 
evidence here shows that its more likely than not that Mrs O authorised these transactions 
herself and so its fair that Barclays holds her liable for these.In any event, security systems can be complex, and Barclays doesnt have to disclose what 
triggers a security query on a transaction. But in terms of whats fair and reasonable, I 
wouldnt expect Barclays to have queried these particular disputed transactions, because 
they were done after logging in using Mrs Os most-often used IP address; and using her 
Barclays Mobile Banking login and codes; using her registered phone; and using details 
taken from her genuine debit card. Nor were one-off payments of around £500, to various 
individual payees, unusual in Mrs Os previous account history. So I dont consider there 
were any obvious reasons for Barclays to suspect these transactions might not be genuine.
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Mrs O, or someone 
she permitted to use her details, carried out the disputed transactions. So I dont require 
Barclays to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman