DRN-2747547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they took out with 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited in 1994. They believe it was mis-sold to them 
because of the risks associated with the policy and its term beyond retirement.
Mr and Mrs H are represented in their complaint by a complaint management company 
(CMC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out two mortgage endowment policies with Prudential in 1991 and 1994. 
In late 1990 Mr and Mrs H were buying their council house under the right-to-buy scheme. 
They had arranged an interest-only mortgage and Prudential recommended a with-profits 
endowment policy with a target amount of £32,302 over a term of 23 years. Mr H was a self-
employed landscape gardener aged 41 earning just over £5,000 a year. Mrs H was a 38-
year-old nurse earning £10,500. They had two teenage children. Their only savings or 
investments was £1,000 in a deposit fund in Mrs H s name. Mr and Mrs H also had some 
life cover policies with Prudential. The endowment policy started in 1991 when the mortgage 
completed. 
In 1994 Mr and Mrs H decided to move home. They were still employed in the same 
professions and were buying a new property for £57,000. Their children were still dependent 
teenagers. Mr Hs income had increased to £9,000 per year and Mrs Hs to £14,000. Mrs H 
was detailed as being a member of an occupational pension scheme and would have 27 
years of service at the normal retirement age for the scheme of 60 and so would receive a 
pension of around a third of her final salary. Mr H didnt have any retirement provision and 
was recommended to do so urgently. He was expecting to retire at state retirement age of 
65. 
The adviser recommended Mr H make some provision via a personal pension plan and 
Mrs H pay more into her pension, or take out a FSAVC, to make up the shortfall in retirement 
income. He also encouraged them to increase their life cover provision to assure the others 
standard of living in the event of death. It was also detailed that Mr and Mrs H had arranged 
the interest-only mortgage and were looking for a way to support the increase of £16,698 
over 20 years. It went on to say The different ways have been discussed and a top up of low 
cost endowment has been decided. The policy sold was a with-profits arrangement that had 
a target value of £16,698, a basic sum assured of £8,683 and a term of 20 years. 
In early 2000 Mr and Mrs H were sent a policy review for both of their endowments. This 
showed the 1991 policy was, at the middle growth rate, predicted to fall short of the amount 
needed to repay their mortgage. They were recommended to increase the monthly premium 
to that policy by just under £22, which they did. The 1994 policy was on-track to pay off the 
mortgage at the same growth rate.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs H surrendered both of the endowment policies. They have said this was 
because they converted their mortgage to a repayment type.
In 2019 the CMC made a complaint on behalf of Mr and Mrs H about the suitability of both 
the 1991 and 1994 endowments. 
Prudential upheld the complaint in relation to the 1991 policy. It commented that 
Mr and Mrs Hs attitude toward risk hadnt been documented and there was no evidence 
alternative methods of repaying the mortgage had been discussed. Prudential concluded the 
policy was not suitable for them as they were first-time buyers and so a repayment mortgage 
would have been more suitable. It offered compensation that placed Mr and Mrs H in the 
same financial position they would have been in at the time they stopped using the 
endowment for their mortgage in 2002, had they had a repayment mortgage from outset.
In relation to the 1994 policy, Prudential rejected the complaint. It highlighted the adviser had 
noted hed discussed alternative methods of repaying the mortgage. It concluded that 
Mr and Mrs H had been aware of the risk associated with the endowment policy because of 
the 1991 policy, the discussions they had with the financial adviser and the policy 
documentation they received at the time of the sale. It also said that as they were not 
first-time buyers and had previous mortgage experience, it was fair to assume they knew 
how an endowment worked and were happy to accept the risks associated with the new one 
being recommended.
Mr and Mrs H accepted the redress offered for the 1991 policy, but werent happy the 
complaint about the 1994 policy had been turned down. The CMC asked us to look into the 
complaint. When it did so it said Mr and Mrs H were 45 and 41 when the policy was taken 
out and they couldnt afford to take any risk, as the policy matured after both their expected 
retirement ages, and so they would have to make up any shortfall from their retirement 
income. It highlighted that Mr and Mrs H had changed their mortgage to a repayment type in 
2002 and surrendered the policy, which it said supported the fact the endowment was not a 
suitable repayment method for their biggest financial commitment. It said they have still not 
been able to repay their mortgage in full. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators view. The CMC said that their 
circumstances hadnt changed sufficiently to make the outcome of the complaint about the 
1994 policy so different to that about the 1991 policy. It again highlighted the policy matured 
after retirement when Mr and Mrs H would have difficulty dealing with a shortfall. It said that 
Mr and Mrs H should have been retiring into a stable position, not having to potentially sell 
their home. The CMC asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Prudential has accepted the first endowment policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H. It has 
indicated it concluded this because they were first-time buyers, their attitude toward risk was 
not documented, they had no previous investments and it didnt appear that any discussions 
about alternative ways of repaying the mortgage were discussed. I dont propose to 
comment on the suitability of this policy for Mr and Mrs H. However, I would comment that as 
Prudential concluded it wasnt suitable for them, I dont think it reasonable to place any 
reliance on its existence, or assume any understanding by Mr and Mrs H of how it worked, 
when reviewing the 1994 policy sale.
In 1994 Mr and Mrs H had similar circumstances to those in 1991, other than they were older 
and were earning slightly more money. The new mortgage would have been within normal 
lending criteria, given which lender had agreed the mortgage. So, if Mr and Mrs H had wanted to, there was nothing in their circumstances that would indicate they couldnt take a 
risk with their mortgage. That said, they had no experience of investment products that can 
reasonably be relied on and the mortgage term ended almost two years after Mrs H was due 
to retire and a month after Mr Hs expected state retirement. 
The Prudential adviser highlighted in 1994 that Mr and Mrs Hs retirement provisions were 
inadequate, particularly so in the case of Mr H. Mrs H was on track to receive a pension of 
around a third of her final salary and Mr H wasnt expected to receive anything more than a 
state pension. This would mean that Mr and Mrs Hs income in the final two years of the term 
would be significantly reduced, and this would reduce even more significantly at the end of 
the term.  As such, it would appear Mr and Mrs H would be likely to find it difficult to deal with 
a shortfall if there was one at the end of the term.   
A with-profits endowment policy would generally have been considered to represent a low 
level of risk in 1994, which would have been considered to be suitable for most consumers 
at the time. However, the slightly shorter than average term and the term going beyond 
retirement, where consumers had inadequate retirement provision, would increase the risk 
associated with the policy significantly. As Prudential has highlighted, there is no evidence of 
what Mr and Mrs Hs attitude toward risk was in 1991 or 1994. So we cant be certain 
whether they were willing to risk not being able to pay their mortgage at the end of the term 
and, if they were, what level of risk they were willing to take. In light of their circumstances, I 
am not persuaded Mr and Mrs H were in a position to take the risk associated with the 
endowment policy they were recommended.
I note that Prudential has placed significant emphasis on different types of mortgage being 
discussed with Mr and Mrs H. Whilst this may have aided them in making an informed 
choice about whether to accept the recommendation its adviser was making to them, I dont 
consider it negated the advisers duty of care to only recommend a suitable product. Even 
where consumers have already been recommended an interest-only mortgage by a lender, a 
financial adviser shouldnt sell an investment product as a repayment vehicle unless it is 
suitable for the individual consumers needs and circumstances. 
Overall, I am not persuaded the advice to arrange the 1994 endowment policy was suitable, 
given Mr and Mrs Hs individual circumstances at the time. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my conclusions or made any further submissions, I see no 
reason to alter those conclusions. I remain satisfied this complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should calculate whether Mr and Mrs H 
suffered a loss due to being recommended the mortgage endowment in 1994 rather than a 
repayment mortgage. The redress should follow the regulators guidance, known as RU89. This will compare the 
position of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage when they converted it in 2002 with the hypothetical 
position they would have been in, had they had a repayment mortgage from the outset. Any 
loss identified should be paid to Mr and Mrs H. 
Interest at 8% simple per annum will be payable on any loss identified from the date of 
calculation to the date of settlement. If Prudential considers it is required by HMRC to deduct 
income tax from any interest paid, it should provide Mr and Mrs H with evidence of the 
amount paid for use with HMRC if required.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited to settle the complaint as detailed above in Putting things right. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my 
decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman