DRN-1955930
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them four loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. They are also unhappy with the way that 
Nationwide Building Society dealt with their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out their first loan with Nationwide in 1995. They then took out further 
loans in 1996, 1998 and 1999 with each successive loan paying off the previous one. The 
PPI covering the first two loans were regular premium policies. The PPI covering the last two 
loans were single premium policies with Mr and Mrs G borrowing an additional sum up front 
to pay for the premiums. Although they were joint loans, the PPI only covered Mrs G as the 
first named borrower.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide has no record of the 1995 and 1996 sales process. Mr and Mrs G say they have 
a recollection of taking out the policies in a branch. In the absence of any other evidence, Im 
happy to consider the sales on the basis that they took place during meetings.
From what we know of Nationwides sales practices at the time, the PPI would usually have 
been presented as optional and I havent seen anything to persuade me that something 
different happened in this case. There was usually a discussion about the loan and 
associated insurance, with the PPI only featuring on the credit agreement if an applicant has 
consented to it. Although no paperwork is available from the time, weve seen sample loan 
agreements from that period describing the PPI as optional credit insurance.
Although Mr and Mrs G also have a recollection of taking out the 1998 and 1999 loans and 
PPI in branch, Ive seen the application forms for these two sales which show that Mr and 
Mrs G applied by completing and returning postal application forms.
These forms had a separate section for PPI containing yes and no boxes to either request 
or decline the policy. In both cases Mrs G has ticked the yes box and also signed in that 
section to agree to PPI.
Mr and Mrs G have highlighted a statement of loan letter they received in January 1999 that 
included examples and quotes for further loans. The figures quoted included the cost of PPI 
which Mr and Mrs G say implies that taking out the PPI was necessary. But the letter also 
describes the PPI as an option we strongly recommend you consider which I consider 
makes it clear that the PPI was not an integral part of the loan.
The sales were a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Gs 
recollection of events has faded. On balance, based on the available evidence, I consider 
that, for all four sales, Mr and Mrs G would have known that they had a choice about taking 
out PPI. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if 
they no longer remember doing so.
Mr and Mrs G say they cant recall being questioned about their circumstances such as 
employment benefits. As Nationwide sold the PPI on a non-advised basis, it didnt need to 
establish the suitability of the policies for them. And of course, for the postal sales, there 
would have been no interaction with any staff members.
However, Nationwide did need to provide enough information for Mr and Mrs G to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether or not the policies were right for them.
Mrs G had a couple of employers over the period in question. She recalls that the first 
employer probably would have provided sick pay of six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay. She thinks that the second employer would have provided greater benefits. 
However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer 
than Mrs G would have received full pay for.
Mr and Mrs G say they had between three and six months worth of salary held as savings. 
Mr and Mrs G rolled each loan into the next one and their pattern of borrowing is indicative of 
having quite a lot of debt. The application form for the 1998 loan says that it is for a holiday 
and to pay off an overdraft. The application form for the 1999 loan shows that the purpose 
was to consolidate debt. At that time Mr and Mrs G owed a total of £4,200 on credit and 
store cards and had loans for furniture and a caravan with a total outstanding balance of 
£7,000. Overall, Im not persuaded that they had sufficient savings to cover their loan 
repayments for any length of time. Regardless of that, having the policy would have allowed 
them to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings.
The couple have said that Mr G could have continued to make the repayments if Mrs G 
wasnt working. But if Mrs G wasnt working, the household income would have been 
reduced and put a strain on their finances. Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs G had a need 
for the policies and could have benefitted from them at what would have been a difficult time 
if Mrs G had been unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
As we dont have the paperwork for the first two loans, I dont know what cost information 
was provided to Mr and Mrs G at the point they decided to buy the policies. But the policies 
had monthly premiums of £33.05 and £32.62 respectively. On balance, Im not persuaded 
that more information about the cost would have put the couple off buying it.
The loan agreements for the 1998 and 1999 loans detail all the costs of the PPI, including 
the initial premium, the interest, the total cost and the monthly cost. So I think Mr and Mrs G 
would have known what they were paying for the policies.
Mr and Mrs G say they were unaware that the PPI only covered Mrs G as the first named 
applicant on the loan. Mrs G was the first named applicant on all the loans. Therefore, its 
likely that it was a conscious decision to have her as the main applicant. Mr G had worked in 
a more senior position for over 20 years for a large company and evidence suggests that he 
would have received 12 months full pay if he was off work sick. So having Mrs G as the main applicant would make sense in terms of ensuring that the policies were set up to 
protect her, as the one with the less generous employer benefits and a less secure job.
In the PPI section of the application forms that I have seen, there is only a signature box for 
the first applicant. On the loan agreements there are asterixis next to Mrs Gs name which 
denotes that she is the one Insured for disability, unemployment and life. These things, 
together with the insurance schedule that would have been sent out afterwards, would have 
alerted the couple to the fact that the policies were set up just to cover Mrs G.
In terms of the information that Nationwide says would have been sent out afterwards, Mr 
and Mrs G say they dont have it in their records. But the sales were a long time ago and so 
it wouldnt be surprising if they no longer have all the documentation. They also dont have 
copies of loan agreements for the first two sales, even though we know that these sales took 
place. I consider it more likely than not that Mrs G would have been sent a copy of the policy 
schedules and policy documents as that is what Nationwide was required to do. But I am 
mindful that the couple did not base their decision to take out the PPI on the policy 
document.
I think that Mr and Mrs G would have known something about the policy  that it would cover 
their loan repayments if Mrs G was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to take it out without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs G wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that the couple had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they 
are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
that Nationwide needs to do to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs G say that Nationwide set a precedent when it upheld a complaint they made 
about a policy that was sold to them in 2001. However, our adjudicator has explained why 
Nationwide made the decision to uphold that complaint. Complaints are looked at on a case 
by case basis. Having considered the evidence in this case, I am unable to conclude that the 
policies were mis-sold, for the reasons explained above.
Turning now to Mr and Mrs Gs dissatisfaction with how Nationwide handled their complaint, 
Nationwide apologised for the level of service received and paid £75 compensation. 
Following discussion with our adjudicator, Nationwide then increased its offer to £125 and Mr 
and Mrs G have confirmed that they accept this amount as a resolution to their complaint 
about service standards.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. 
However, Nationwide Building Society should now pay Mr and Mrs G the additional £50 
offered for the service complaint if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman