DRN-2894754
The complaint
This complaint is about a Critical Illness and Life Assurance Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP) policy taken out in 2009. Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(BoS) mis-sold them the policy.
 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2009 Mr and Mrs M took out the policy at the same time as taking out a mortgage during a 
branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage in the event either of them 
suffered a policy defined critical illness or died. The policy had an initial sum assured of just 
under £25,000 and was set up on a decreasing term basis  i.e. the cover would reduce in 
line with the reducing mortgage balance over the defined term. It cost around £27 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs M say they had existing insurance of around £95,000 and 
were both entitled to employee benefits including critical illness and death-in-service benefit. 
Mr and Mrs M have said they were in good health at the time of the sale.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the available 
evidence indicated that Mr and Mrs M chose and agreed to take out the cover, and there 
was nothing to suggest it was wrong or inappropriate for them.
Because Mr and Mrs M disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. My reasons are set 
out below.
did Mr and Mrs M have a choice about the policy? 
did they agree to take it out?
Mr and Mrs M say the policy was applied without their consent or knowledge and that no 
recommendations were received despite what BoS says happened.
BoS no longer has copies of all the paperwork from the time of the sale  but it has provided 
a copy of a Demands and Needs Statement, which is a record of what the adviser 
recommended to Mr and Mrs M based on their documented circumstances at the time. 
Looking at this I can see that they identified a need for life and critical illness cover for both 
Mr and Mrs M. The adviser did not recommend cover was taken for accident, sickness, or 
unemployment as they said there didnt appear to be a need. The adviser described the 
policy as being optional.
Because of the nature of the recommendation made, I think its likely there was a detailed 
discussion with Mr and Mrs M. I cannot see how the adviser would otherwise have arrived at 
the overall recorded advice  for example it appears the adviser took into account that Mr 
and Mrs M had some existing cover because of the sum assured recommended.
In addition to the above, BoS has also previously provided us with examples of the type of 
paperwork a consumer would have seen taking out this kind of policy around 2009. And 
looking at this it is clear that a consumer would have to agree or formally consent to take it 
out.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything else to support what Mr 
and Mrs M say happened, I dont think the policy was added with their consent  I think they 
chose and agreed to take it out based on the advice and recommendation they were given.
the advice
Im satisfied this was an advised sale  so BoS had to check that the policy was right for Mr 
and Mrs M. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, they were both eligible for the cover and neither was affected by any of 
the significant exclusions to or limits on the cover such as those for existing medical 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs M say they already had cover in place so they didnt have a need for the policy. 
But I disagree. Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage amount was greater than the level of cover 
provided by their existing policy, so there was a shortfall. And it appears the adviser 
identified this, which is why the amount they recommended was broadly the difference 
between the cover provided by their existing policy and the amount of money they were 
looking to borrow.
Mr and Mrs M say they also had life and critical illness cover provided by their employer. But 
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for the adviser to have disregarded these when 
giving advice about Mr and Mrs Ms protection requirements for their new mortgage. I say 
this because the cover cant be guaranteed for the life of the mortgage  for example Mr 
and/or Mrs M could have changed jobs or their employer could have changed the benefits it 
provided. So I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the policy.
 
the information  
I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs M about the policy wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been  for example its not clear whether the significant limitations and 
exclusions were clearly brought to Mr and Mrs Ms attention. But given my finding above that the policy was suitable for them, it seems like it would have 
been useful for them if the insured risks became a reality. It also looks like the policy was 
affordable - so I dont think better information would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the 
cover. 
conclusion
While BoS might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mr and Mrs M the policy, in light of their circumstances at the time I think the policy was 
suitable for them. And because of this, I don't think better information would've put them off 
taking it out.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of having the policy, so BoS 
doesn't have to do anything to put things right.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including what they said in response 
to the adjudicator's assessment. But these points dont change my decision. 
Mr and Mrs M have repeated the point that they werent aware they had the policy until some 
years later. But Im afraid the evidence I have set out above doesnt lead me to reach this 
conclusion  for the reasons I have given I think they accepted the recommendation made 
and agreed to take out the policy.
And finally Id like to address something Mr and Mrs M raised when they first brought their 
complaint to us about them having previously complained to BoS in 2014 but that it wasnt 
investigated at this time. And this is why they were prompted to complain again in 2019.
BoS has provided us with a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs M in 2014. Looking at this I can see 
BoS said that because Mr and Mrs Ms policy wasnt Payment Protection Insurance (PPI), it 
was closing their complaint. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M complained to BoS in the 
context that their policy was PPI (this was the period in which PPI complaints were being 
made on a large scale) which is why it prompted the response that it did.
But in any event, because Im not upholding their complaint Mr and Mrs M have not lost out 
as a result of not having their complaint answered in 2014.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make 
no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman