DRN-1399938
 
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy 
about the service it provided and the valuation of her horsebox following a theft claim under 
her commercial insurance policy.   
What happened
Mrs M made a claim under her insurance after her horsebox was stolen and found burnt-out 
a few miles away from home. The thieves had removed parts from the van and burnt it out. 
Markerstudy offered her a market value of about £20,000 which Mrs M thought was very low. 
When Mrs M complained about this Markerstudy took a while to look into things for her. It 
has acknowledged its service was poor and that it delayed things. It appointed an engineer 
and increased its market value to between £22,000 and £24,000. And offered £350 
compensation in acknowledgement of the service it provided. As Markerstudy were taking so 
long Mrs M complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her. But she didnt uphold her complaint. She thought 
Markerstudy eventually offered a fair market value for the horsebox. And that its offer of 
compensation was also reasonable.
As Mrs M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M. I must highlight that it isnt the role of 
this service to value her horsebox van. But to look to see if the valuation Markerstudy have 
placed on the van is reasonable. It is very difficult to value any vehicle, especially a horsebox 
that has been privately altered as opposed to altered by a professional company. And it is 
the alteration of the van that makes this case even more difficult to decide. I say this as there 
are trade guides that value vehicles but they dont cover horseboxs, certainly not privately 
altered ones.
In looking to see if Markerstudys offer was fair I have taken into account the various adverts 
provided by both sides. And the engineer valued the horsebox at around £22,000 initially (so 
Im not sure why Markerstudy offered less). He then looked at things again and gave a guide 
of between £22,000 and £24,000. But I must highlight that this is a strong piece of evidence 
from a professional in the field.
Turning to the various adverts that have been provided. I can see that the professionally 
altered vans are worth more than the privately changed vehicles. I know Mrs M disputes this; 
but any prospective buyer would know the workmanship involved in a professional refit as opposed to one undertaken privately. It wouldve been helpful if Mrs Ms van was inspected 
or valued before the accident. But it wasnt quite completed before the theft so this would 
have been difficult. Indeed, I think the fact that the refit wasnt fully finalised would have 
affected the overall value of the horsebox, so it is difficult to compare it to completed 
vehicles.
I have looked at all the adverts provided by both sides and I can see that the price fluctuates 
greatly. And the specification and finish contribute significantly to this. Markerstudy has 
provided two adverts for professionally finished horsebox vans in confirming that it has 
valued the horsebox at £24,000 in its most recent communications. Ive looked at these and I 
agree that they are finished to a higher standard and specification (having considered the 
pictures available) than Mrs Ms horsebox. One of these is advertised for only a few 
thousand more than Markerstudy has offered Mrs M. And I would expect the selling price to 
be less, as the selling price is usually negotiated down from the advertised price. So I dont 
think I can say Markerstudy has acted unreasonably.
As outlined above. This service doesnt look to value vehicles and valuing vehicles, 
especially a horsebox, is far from an exact science. And having looked at all the information 
available I think Markerstudy has acted reasonably. It has relied on its engineer in making its 
valuation, who considered general sales for similar vehicles alongside his professional 
knowledge. And I cant say that position and valuation isnt fair, especially as Mrs Ms van 
wasnt completed. 
Finally, I agree that the service provided was poor. Markerstudy took too long and delayed 
the settlement of the claim. It must also have been frustrating for Mrs M to have been offered 
a lower valuation initially as well. But I think £350 is sufficient compensation for all of this. 
So, I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M but Im not asking Markerstudy 
to do anything different.
 My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman