DRN-4202744
The complaint
Mr H complains that AWP P&C SA declined his claim against his travel insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr H has travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. He 
was on a trip from 1 June 2022 to 29 June 2022. One of his hotel stays was from          
16 June 2022 to 18 June 2022. 
Mr H says that he last saw his kindle on 17 June 2022, when he was reading it in his 
hotel room. Mr H moved hotels on 18 June 2022. At his next destination he couldnt find 
his kindle. On 20 June 2022, he phoned his previous hotel and it told him that it hadnt 
been found. 
In July 2022, Mr H made a claim against his policy. AWP declined the claim. It relied on 
an exclusion in the policy in relation to unattended items. Mr H pursued his complaint. In 
response to Mr Hs complaint, AWP offered him compensation of £35 in relation to 
service issues. 
Mr H says that he last saw his kindle in his locked hotel room, so his claim comes within 
the policy terms. He wants AWP to pay his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that AWP hadnt 
acted reasonably in declining Mr Hs claim. The investigator said that it wasnt 
reasonable for AWP to rely on the exclusion to which it had referred. She said that there 
was no indication that Mr H had left his kindle in a public space. The investigator 
accepted that the hotel room wasnt Mr Hs after he left the hotel but the last time he saw 
his kindle was in his hotel room. She said that there was nothing to indicate that Mr H 
intentionally left his kindle in the hotel room and its understandable that he didnt notice 
it was missing until he went to use it.       
AWP didnt agree with the investigator. It reiterated that the policy excludes cover for 
loss or theft to valuables left unattended and that Mr H didnt take all possible care to 
safeguard against loss or theft, as required by the policy. AWP asked that an 
ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 6 June 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision and indicated that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Subject to the policy terms, Mr H 
has cover for the loss or theft of valuables. There are certain exclusions, the relevant one for 
present purposes says as follows: 
What is not covered
[]
2. Loss, theft of or damage to valuables left unattended at any time (including in a vehicle 
or the custody of carriers), unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your 
locked accommodation.
Special conditions relating to claims
In addition to the General claims information required shown under the Making a claim 
section on page 19, where appropriate, you must also:
[]
4. Take suitable precautions to secure the safety of your baggage (including valuables), 
and must not leave any items unsecured, unattended or beyond your reach at any time in a 
place to which the public have access.
Unattended is defined as [] when you are not in full view of and not in a position to 
prevent unauthorised interference with your property or vehicle.
General conditions
[]
11. We may not pay your claim if you do not:
a. take all possible care to safeguard against accident, injury, loss, damage or theft 
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to uphold      
Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive set out above the relevant policy terms. I think that the cover and exclusions 
are set out clearly in the policy. Based on what Ive seen, the circumstances of Mr Hs loss are not certain. Thats 
not unusual in a claim like the one here. Mr H says that he last saw his kindle when 
he was using it in his hotel room on 17 June 2022. Mr H says that he left it on the 
arm of a chair when he went out for an evening meal. In his claim form, Mr H said 
that the loss occurred at 10.15 am on 18 June 2022. I assume thats the time he 
checked out of the hotel. But it wasnt until Mr H next wanted to use his kindle 
when he was in a different hotel that he realised it was missing. Its not clear to me 
exactly when that was, but on the afternoon or evening of 20 June 2022, Mr H 
phoned his previous hotel and enquired about the whereabouts of his kindle, so it 
was sometime before then.   
Based on what Ive seen, Mr Hs kindle was lost or stolen between the early 
evening on 17 June 2022 and sometime before the afternoon or evening of          
20 June 2022. I think thats the relevant period here. 
  
Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr Hs kindle was stolen from his locked hotel 
room before he checked out of the hotel on 18 June 2022. With the benefit of 
hindsight, Mr H thinks that he left his kindle in the hotel room when he moved to a 
different hotel. I agree with AWP that after Mr H checked out of his hotel, the room 
wasnt his room  he had no access to it and he wasnt able to lock it. So, if  Mr H 
left his kindle in his hotel room, it was left unattended after he checked out of the 
hotel.  
On balance, in the circumstances  that arose here, I dont think that AWP acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the exclusion in relation to unattended 
valuables. I think it was reasonable for AWP to conclude that it was more likely 
than not that at the time of the loss, Mr Hs kindle was unattended, as defined by 
the policy. That is, Mr Hs kindle wasnt in his full view and he wasnt in a position to 
prevent unauthorised interference with it. Theres nothing to indicate that Mr Hs 
kindle was in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or in his locked accommodation after 
he had checked out of the hotel. 
In any event, I think that AWP can rely on both the special and general conditions  
Ive set out above and decline Mr Hs claim on the basis that he hadnt taken 
suitable precautions to secure his kindle or all possible care to safeguard against 
loss.
I dont think the fact that Mr H didnt leave his kindle in a public space or that 
theres nothing to suggest that Mr H left his kindle in his hotel room intentionally 
alters the outcome here. For the reasons Ive explained, I think that AWP acted 
fairly and reasonably in relying on the exclusion Ive set out above.
Responses to my provisional decision
We didnt receive a response from Mr H. AWP said that it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither Mr H nor AWP has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AWP acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Hs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and referred to above, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman