DRN-3716319
The complaint
Mr G complains Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly alleged he has fraudulently 
exaggerated a claim for flood related damage to the contents of a property. It has declined 
his claim and requested re-payment of all funds received to date.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat them 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr G Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all 
the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G and Aviva to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should not be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
It is not my role to reach a finding on whether the claim has been presented 
fraudulently, that would be a determination for a court to make. Similarly, it is not the 
function of this service to cross examine witnesses or require evidence under oath.
My role is to decide whether Aviva has applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
fairly in order to decline Mr Gs claim.
The policy contains the following term: If your claim is in any way dishonest or 
exaggerated we will not pay any benefit under this policy or return any premium to 
you and we may cancel your policy immediately and backdate the cancellation to the 
date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action against you.
Aviva has raised concerns about the information that has been obtained during the 
course of the claim. It is particularly concerned about the extremely high value of 
computer equipment being claimed for which was allegedly being stored/used in a 
residential setting. And, it has also explained it has concerns about the way in which 
the claim has been presented. 
Aviva has fairly put those concerns to Mr G, as I would have expected it to do, and 
therefore he is fully aware of what those concerns are. I realise Mr G has provided 
some evidence to Aviva as to why the computer equipment was in the property, 
however this has not alleviated all of the concerns it has about the equipment. And 
aside from that, there are other matters of concern for Aviva.
Having reviewed the information available to me, Im satisfied Aviva has reasonable 
concerns about the information that has been presented and therefore I think it has 
applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably in this case. So, I dont intend to 
interfere in its decision to decline Mr Gs claim in line with the policy terms.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman