DRN-2431276
The complaint
Mr T complains that Monese Ltd has refused to honour a £100 gift card.
What happened
Mr T says he bought a promotional gift card from Monese for £80 that had a value of £100. 
He says he tried to use the card but discovered it had expired. Mr T says he spoke to 
Monese about this and was told there was an expiry date on the card. He says Monese 
accepted he didnt receive the e-mail about this, and it offered him £80 which he thinks is 
unfair.
Monese sent its final response letter to Mr T in May 2020 and accepted the card had expired 
and that he had hadnt received information about the terms and conditions. It also accepted 
it didnt respond to Mr Ts initial complaint and removed account fees for two months. 
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator asked Monese for information about 
this complaint but despite a number of requests from August 2020 until November 2020 it 
hasnt responded. The investigator based his view on the information he had and upheld the 
complaint. The investigator thought Monese accepted Mr T didnt have relevant information 
about the gift card and so it should repay the full balance of £100 and not £80. The 
investigator also thought Monese hadnt dealt appropriately with the complaint or Mr T and 
recommended it pay £50 compensation.
Mr T agrees with that recommendation but Monese hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint. I make clear 
there are unanswered questions here that I would have liked Monese to explain in more 
detail such as the value of the account fees and information about the expiry date and if that 
information was contained in the missing terms and conditions as its letter suggests. But Im 
satisfied Monese has had a reasonable time period to respond to us and its unfair to expect 
Mr T to wait any longer for a final decision.
Im satisfied Mr T bought the gift card and the value available for him to spend was £100. I 
think on balance based on Moneses final response letter that it accepts it didnt send Mr T 
the full offer terms and conditions and so I find Mr T was unaware of the full offer conditions. 
In those circumstances I find Mr T was unable to spend the £100 gift card and I dont think it 
matters that he paid £80 for it.
It is not clear, but it seems Monese has refunded £80 and accepts it made a mistake. I think 
it ought to pay a further £20 as I think if Mr T had been given the full information he would 
have used the card before the expiry date.
I can see that Monese also accepts it didnt deal with Mr Ts complaint appropriately and 
says his e-mail was not correctly sorted. I also think it likely that if Monese had given Mr T 
all of the terms and conditions when it ought to have done then this complaint could have 
been avoided. For those reasons I think Monese should pay £50 compensation which I think 
is fair and reasonable and takes into account the inconvenience Mr T has been caused. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Monese to pay Mr T a further £20 in respect of the gift card and £50 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Monese Ltd to pay Mr T £70 
compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman