DRN-2064163
The complaint
Miss T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided poor service when 
she was involved in a collision.
What happened
Miss T was involved in an accident in her gym car park in 2019 and promptly contacted her 
insurer, Advantage about the incident. She said the other car did not have its lights on and 
that it had turned into the line of bays as she was pulling out of her parking bay. Advantage 
eventually accepted liability for the incident on Miss Ts behalf.
Miss T was unhappy about this as she says she was told by Advantage that the claim would 
be settled on a 50/50 liability basis. So she brought her complaint to this service, saying the 
claim had been poorly investigated by Advantage, that it had misled her as to her liability and 
that its claims process is not fit for purpose.
Our investigator considered the complaint and initially thought Advantage had provided a 
poor service and should pay Miss T £75 compensation for trouble and upset. Advantage 
disagreed with the investigators assessment, saying it had acted reasonably and in line with 
the policy terms. 
The investigator considered what Advantage had said and issued a further assessment, 
saying he now did not think compensation was warranted in this case. Miss T then 
disagreed. So as part of our two-stage process, the complaint has now come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has raised a number of points that she wants this service to take into account. Ive 
taken them all into consideration. But Ive not commented on each and every point raised 
and no discourtesy is meant by this. It simply reflects the informal nature of this service. In 
this decision Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. In doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint and wont be asking Advantage to offer compensation. I know Miss T 
will be disappointed by this, but Ill now explain my reasons. 
My role isnt to decide who was liable for the incident or to tell Advantage on what basis it 
shouldve settled the claim. Its to determine whether Advantage acted fairly and in line with 
the terms and conditions of Miss Ts policy. If it hasnt acted reasonably, its also my role to 
then determine what impact this has had on Miss T and whether it needs to compensate her 
for any failings.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Ts policy, which says that the insurer (Advantage) has the right to 
defend the claim or admit liability on her behalf where appropriate. Miss T says Advantage 
told her the claim would be dealt with on a 50/50 liability basis. This turned out to be 
incorrect information and I dont doubt what Miss T has said about this. But I dont think 
Advantage deliberately misled Miss T either. It seems more likely that based on the 
information Miss T had given at that stage, Advantage initially thought the third party driver 
was at fault to a degree, for turning into the line of bays as Miss T reported when she 
logged the claim. This could be misinterpreted to mean that the third party driver had driven 
through the bays in an inappropriate way and not as a driver is supposed to.
Miss T has said an aerial photograph of the gym car park was sent to her, and she was 
asked to pinpoint where she had been parked. Shes said the photograph was not fit for 
purpose as most of the car park was covered and could not be seen, and that so much time 
had passed since the incident that she couldnt remember her exact location. Shes said that 
despite being unable to give Advantage her location, Advantage proceeded to accept liability 
on her behalf and settle the claim. Miss T finds this unacceptable and says the whole 
process took too long. 
I think the reasons Advantage has given for the delays are reasonable. The third party 
involved in the accident instructed a solicitor and Advantage has said this often means 
claims take longer to deal with. I can also see from the contact notes Advantage has 
provided that it tried to get in touch with Miss T on a number of occasions without much 
success, before accepting liability.
And while I understand Miss Ts frustration at Advantage initially telling her the claim would 
be dealt with on a 50/50 liability basis, I dont agree that Advantage changed its mind all of a 
sudden without considering things properly. From what Advantage has said, I think its likely 
there were ongoing communication between the parties, of which Miss T was not aware, 
which led to Advantage accepting liability. This is not uncommon  and I think Advantage 
decided to accept liability based on information from the third party solicitors, and not solely 
because Miss T could not pinpoint her location on the photograph. 
I do think Advantage could have kept Miss T better updated and managed her expectations 
from the outset. However, I have to consider the impact of these failings on Miss T. And Im 
afraid I dont think the impact has been significant enough to warrant compensation in this 
case. I say this because from looking at the sketch and details of the incident, I think its 
likely Miss T wouldve been somewhat aware she was likely going to be held liable. She was 
pulling out of her bay as the third party was pulling in, so she wouldve had a greater duty of 
care.
Miss T also says she didnt take Advantage up on its offer of a courtesy car, as she had her 
sons car at home. She thinks Advantage should recognise that she has saved it money and 
refund the cost of of the courtesy car. But I dont think that would be appropriate. Advantage 
met its obligations in relation to offering the courtesy car. Miss T chose not to use something 
her policy provides for  it follows that I dont think Advantage did anything wrong here and it 
isnt for Advantage to refund customers for unused parts of policies. 
I also dont think Advantage was unreasonable in phoning Miss T on her work line, instead of 
her mobile. Shed given her work number as part of the claims process and I havent seen 
anything which would suggest she did not give her authority for Advantage to call her on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman