DRN-2029076
The complaint
Mr M complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M was given a SafetyNet credit facility in August 2017. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit provided to Mr M in August 2017 was £200. SNC has told us the limit 
had increased to £710 by March 2018. It seems Mr M had some financial difficulties because 
when he referred his complaint to this service, there was an outstanding balance on the 
facility, that needed to be repaid.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint. He thought the facility shouldnt have 
been given to him as he didnt think Mr M could affordably meet the repayments, or repay 
the debt within a reasonable time, out of his available income without further borrowing.  
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. SNC says that based on their review and 
calculations, Mr M had a disposable income of around £955 per month. So, it considers that 
the facility was affordable.
 
Mr M didnt have any further comments following the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
the regulations in place when Mr M was given the SafetyNet facility
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr M this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory 
rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 
of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation as well as the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an  open-
end agreement (like Mr Ms Safety Net facility), to make payments within a reasonable 
period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in 
mind when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
The guidance didnt require SNC to carry out compulsory checks, but it did require its checks 
to be proportionate. And any checks had to consider a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, the 
lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the 
lending.
 
SNC was also required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably make his repayments  
not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr M could sustainably 
make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. There may be 
situations for example where consumers have shown signs of financial difficulty, calling into 
question their ability to sustain repayments.
 
CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, would be 
intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like: 
The following matters, among others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be 
aware, may indicate that a customer is in financial difficulties;
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where there 
is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer having to 
borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to meet repayments 
of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to seeking debt 
counselling.Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to do before 
agreeing to Mr Ms SafetyNet facility.
 
what happened when the facility was granted
SNC says it reviewed Mr Ms bank transaction data to decide if it would lend. SNC has 
provided a copy of the statements it appears to have looked at which cover a period of 90 
days before the facility was approved. It considered what it saw in the bank statements 
together with the results of the credit checks. Having done so, SNC was satisfied Mr M 
wasnt having trouble meeting his existing commitments and would be able to maintain the 
facility he was offered.
Looking at Mr Ms statements I can see his employer paid him weekly and that he also 
received monthly child benefit payments. These income sources provided an overall monthly 
income around £1,268 to £1,479.
 
However, SNC has suggested Mr Ms income was almost £2,776 but I dont think it has 
shown this was Mr Ms regular income that it couldve reasonably relied on when assessing 
the application. SNC appears to have considered other transfer payments into his account. 
These payments varied considerably and there is no consistent pattern of payment. Mr M 
also had transfers out of his account on occasion back to the same source.
 
As a responsible lender I think as a minimum SNC should have asked Mr M about these 
payments before deciding what it should consider in order to fairly decide his level of income 
whether the facility was affordable and sustainable.
  
For example, Mr M has explained to this service that some of the payments are for child 
support (around £136/£156 per month) and household expenses he paid to his partner 
(around £251/£261 per month). And that he paid rent of £495 which I can see in his bank 
statements. 
Mr M has also explained that he wasnt able to maintain rental payments each month 
because of his financial difficulties. Furthermore, he has explained that the bulk of the other 
transfer payments were payments to and from friends because hed borrowed money from 
them that needed to be repaid. 
I think Mr M has provided a reasonable explanation about these transfers payments which I 
think SNC wouldve become aware of had it made reasonable enquiries. So, except for the 
child care, rent and household costs, I dont think it is fair to include these as either a regular 
income or monthly expense. 
I think what these transfers do show is that Mr M had underlying financial difficulties and 
struggled to manage his money. I can also see that in June 2017 the irregular outgoing 
payments (those that werent part of Mr Ms regular expenses) exceeded the incoming ones. 
And in July 2017 the payments in and out were broadly similar. So, I dont think they really 
added to Mr Ms income.    
Crucially, from what I can see, Mr Ms regular monthly expenses, such as for rent, food, 
travel, car finance, child care, household costs etc exceeded his regular monthly income. So, 
with no surplus income Mr M didnt appear to be in a position where he could take back 
control of his finances and no longer rely on his friends.      
In addition to this, Mr Ms statements show he was paying overdraft charges and there are 
some returned direct debits which, as CONC 1.3 (4) points out, is a sign that a customer 
could be having financial difficulties. Looking at all of this together, I think that Mr Ms circumstances suggested that he was 
struggling to maintain control of his finances. I think this is something that SNC ought 
reasonably to have been aware of through his bank statements and further enquiries with Mr 
M. As a result, there was a clear risk that the facility wasnt going to be repaid in an 
affordable and sustainable manner. 
 
I dont think therefore that SNC should have granted the facility. 
Putting things right
If SNC has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If it isnt able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise with
the new debt owner to achieve the same results:
remove any unpaid interest fees and charges from the current outstanding balance and 
then refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ms facility from the outset of 
the facility; 
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above 
refund is sufficient to repay what Mr M owes, then the remainder of the refund should 
then be paid directly to Mr M;
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mr M should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly;   
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file from the outset of the 
facility. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in full.
 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman