DRN-2556635
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premium in 
relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to 
its agents. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs S took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with 
Great Lakes. The policy started on 10 November 2019 and was due to end on                      
9 November 2020. The policy provided cover for up to a total of 183 days of travel with a 
maximum of 35 days in one trip for Mr S and 50 days in one trip for Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S 
paid a total premium of £863, which included a medical premium in relation to declared 
medical conditions.     
Mr and Mrs S say that they went on a two week trip in 2019. They say that they usually book 
their trips in February or March of each year and didnt book any trips in 2020 because of 
covid-19. Mr S says that he has multiple health conditions which mean that its not safe for 
him to travel. 
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes in order to cancel their policy and ask for 
a refund. Great Lakes didnt agree to a refund. In its response to Mr and Mrs S complaint 
and subsequently, it offered Mr and Mrs S a pro rata credit  - amounting to £405.81 - for one 
of the following options: 
a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at current market rates;
a 12 month, deferred annual policy, at current market rates, so cover could start  
within 12 months of purchasing the policy;
a  UK only, annual, multi trip policy - the destination area may be upgraded later, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes says that the first two options may be withdrawn at any time. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued their complaint. They said 
that they couldnt use the policy as they couldnt travel. Mr and Mrs S want a pro rata refund 
of the premium from the date the UK government enforced wide ranging restrictions on 
movements. They say that Great Lakes has no risk to cover from that date.      
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in      
November 2019 and the policy covered various risks before it was cancelled.  
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of covid-19. 
He thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit for one of the three options it offered 
was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
Great Lakes should send them a refund or voucher that they can use when travelling 
restrictions are lifted
Great Lakes offered them renewal in October 2020, increased the premium and said 
three months cover was free. 
Great Lakes offer isnt fair. 
Great Lakes know that they will not have any claims, as policyholders cant go on 
holiday abroad. 
They cant travel because of travel restrictions and health issues. 
Theyd prefer a refund, rather than a voucher which they may never use. 
They query what happens about the policyholders who have died because of covid-
19 and say that insurers are winning. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs S said but it didnt change his view, so the 
complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant comment generally about how Great Lakes conducts its business or about other 
policyholders, but I can look to see whether Great Lakes has acted in accordance with        
Mr and Mrs S policy terms and treated them fairly and reasonably. 
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period  as it was here - Great Lakes isnt obliged 
to give a refund of the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional 
circumstances. Looking at how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask    
Great Lakes to consider exercising its discretion in this case. Thats because I dont 
think this type of situation is one which the discretion in the policy terms is designed 
to cover  it specifically mentions bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover 
medical conditions and thats not what happened here. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata 
credit towards one of the three options Ive set out above is fair. Thats because      
Mr and Mrs S had the benefit of the policy up to the cancellation date, but            
Great Lakes risk ended when the policy was cancelled. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S would prefer a pro rata cash refund or voucher they 
can use when travel restrictions are lifted, but Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer that. I 
think the pro rata credit Great Lakes has offered is a fair alternative to a cash refund 
or a voucher in the circumstances of this case. Thats because Mr and Mrs S entered 
into an annual contract with Great Lakes but then part-way through the year, for 
reasons I quite understand, wished to cancel the policy. The offer Great Lakes has 
made is more than its obliged to make, and it means that the risk it agreed to take on 
at the outset of Mr and Mrs S policy is potentially moved to a future date, should      
Mr and Mrs S take up the offer. 
 
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain. Ive noted Mr S reference to his 
health conditions. If Mr and Mrs S were to accept one of the options offered by    
Great Lakes I dont think I could reasonably conclude that it will be impossible for 
them to travel safely during the life of that policy. In any event, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer Mr and Mrs S a pro rata refund or a 
voucher that isnt time-limited. 
Mr and Mrs S policy provides that if they ask Great Lakes to cancel their policy, 
cancellation takes effect on the date the request is received or on a later specified 
date. Theres no basis on which I could direct Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs S 
with a refund from the date the UK government enforced wide ranging restrictions on 
movement as Mr and Mrs S didnt contact Great Lakes about cancelling the policy 
until May 2020.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
If Mr and Mrs S wish to take up Great Lakes offer, they should contact it direct. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman