DRN-2731718
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he bought from Hyundai Capital UK Ltd was not of satisfactory 
quality. He says he should have been able to reject it.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S signed a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai for the purchase of a 
car. The car had been first registered in December 2016 and had a recorded mileage of 
around 21,000. It was priced at £16,899 and Mr S was to pay for it by 60 monthly 
instalments of £326.94. 
In November 2019 Mr S reported problems with the cars gearbox. The mileage at this point 
was around 34,000. The dealership which had supplied the car carried out repairs at no cost 
to Mr S. It also provided him with a courtesy car while those repairs were completed. 
Mr S says that he experienced further problems with the car in around March 2020, after the 
car had been used for a further 11,000 miles. A local manufacturers dealership (not the 
supplying dealership) identified a power loss and further gearbox issue. Both issues were 
repaired at no cost to Mr S. Again, he was provided with a courtesy car. 
Mr S complained to Hyundai Capital. It noted however that on both occasions repairs had 
been carried out and Mr S had not been left without a car while that happened. It refunded 
Mr S half of one months payment (that is, £163.47) in recognition of the inconvenience to 
which he had been put. 
Mr S did not think this was enough. He had, he said, lost faith in the car and had not used it 
since the second repair. He thought that he should be able to reject it. 
Hyundai Capital noted that the second repair had not been authorised, but had been carried 
out by a different dealership. Since Mr S had agreed to repairs and those repairs had been 
successful, he could not return the car. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He agreed 
that the car had not been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, but said that it had 
been repaired; Hyundai Capital had done enough to resolve matters. Mr S however said he 
had not agreed to the repairs and had wanted to reject the car; he asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. More recently, I understand that Mr S has returned the car and 
it has been sold.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hyundai Capital should have supplied a car which was of satisfactory quality. I dont believe 
it did so in this case. The car was however repaired at no cost to Mr S. Mr S says that he 
should have been allowed to reject it and that he did not agree to the repairs. 
Depending on the circumstances, a consumer can choose from a range of remedies where 
goods are not of a satisfactory quality. They include repair and, in some cases, rejection. 
Mr S says that he did not agree to having the car repaired. I note however that, after the first 
repair, he continued to use it for several months. He then arranged the second repair at a 
different dealership from the one which had supplied the car. I dont believe he would have 
done that if he had wanted to reject it. In the circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair if I 
were now to require Hyundai Capital to treat Mr S as if he had rejected the car. He has had 
the benefit of two repairs at no cost to himself and has had continuing use of the car or 
courtesy cars. If anything, that view is reinforced by the fact that the car has now been 
returned and sold.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Hyundai Capital UK Ltd to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman