DRN-3051175
The complaint
Miss O complains about the actions of Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank when 
she lost money in circumstances linked to a scam.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In October 2020 Miss O was sadly the victim of a scam. She said she contacted a third party 
about purchasing a pet. But she was then threatened by the third party into transferring £350 
from her account. A few days later she contacted Yorkshire Bank to report the £350 
transaction as fraudulent. Yorkshire Bank said it had contacted the receiving bank, but the 
money was no longer there. 
Miss O was unhappy, so she made a complaint. She said she sent the money because she 
had been threatened into doing so. Yorkshire Bank considered the complaint but said it 
couldnt refund Miss O with the £350. However, it did offer her £75 for the way it handled her 
complaint. 
Miss O remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think the £350 transaction was 
unusual or suspicious, so he didnt think Yorkshire Bank shouldve done more to stop it. And 
he was satisfied that Yorkshire Bank did what it could to recover the funds when Miss O 
made it aware of what happened.  
Miss O disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she had been the victim 
of fraud so she should receive her money back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss O was threatened into sending the £350. I know 
she feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
It is common ground that Miss O authorised the payment of £350. I accept that Miss O was 
threatened into sending the money and she has been the victim of a crime, but she did 
authorise the payment. She provided valid instructions through her online banking. So, 
although she did so because someone had threatened her, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her account, Miss O is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
Banks have obligations to prevent fraud and scams. So, I first need to consider whether an 
authorised push payment scam (APP) has occurred. In order for me to be satisfied an APP 
scam occurred here, I would need to see that Miss O either intended to send a payment to 
one person and was tricked into sending it to another or she intended to send money for a 
legitimate reason (to purchase a puppy) but that turned out to be a scam. 
Here, I understand Miss O first contacted the third party about purchasing a puppy online. 
But she was then threatened into sending the £350, and when she did, she was aware that 
she wasnt paying for a puppy. Ive seen that Miss O contacted the police after sending the 
payment to report the crime  and rightly so. But Im not satisfied that at the time the money 
was sent she intended it to go to another party or she thought she was purchasing a puppy. 
And as a result, I dont think the payment was made as the result of a scam.  
I think its worth mentioning as well that even if I did consider this to be an APP scam and 
that Yorkshire Bank should have intervened in the payment (which for clarity, I dont). I dont 
think any intervention in the payment wouldve made a difference. Miss O was 
understandably scared about the threats shed received and its clear she wanted to make 
the payment for her safety. So, even if Yorkshire Bank did speak to her at the time she made 
the payment, I think she still wouldve made the payment because she was scared. And I 
believe its most likely Yorkshire Bank wouldve told her to report the issue to the police  
which she had already done.  
Yorkshire Bank contacted the bank that received the funds to see if they could be retrieved 
the same day that Miss O contacted it. I think that was reasonable. And when it did so, the 
receiving bank confirmed no money remained in the account. 
So, although I do sympathise with Miss Os situation and I understand why she felt 
compelled to make the payment, I cant ask Yorkshire Bank to refund the payment to her. 
Ive noted that Yorkshire Bank has said it didnt provide the level of service it normally 
expects when reviewing Miss Os complaint. Miss O was offered £75 for the way her 
complaint was handled. This seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in 
similar cases.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman