DRN-2343571
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc sent him an arrears email letter after a monthly 
payment on his fixed sum loan agreement arrived late after a bank holiday. He says this 
caused him upset. He wants a refund of charges and compensation for the upset caused.
What happened
Mr H tells us that in March 2020 he decided to change his method of making monthly 
payments from a direct debit to a standing order. He explains that he notified Hitachi of this 
change of arrangement. And that payments would in future be made on the 10th of each 
month as opposed to the 13th day. He says that Good Friday fell on 10 April in 2020 and as a 
result his payment didnt leave his account until 14 April 2020. Mr H states that Hitachi sent 
him an email notice of arrears after this payment arrived late due to the Bank Holiday. He 
says he was charged £50 in fees. He wishes to be compensated for the embarrassment and 
anxiety he felt over what he considered to be an offensive email.
Hitachi told us that the email arrears letter was an automated response which was sent as 
the payment hadnt arrived on the first working day after the contracted payment date.  And it 
apologised that its agent hadnt confirmed that additional time might be needed for payments 
to arrive after the bank holiday week-end. It said no fees had been added to Mr Hs account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He found that 
Hitachi hadnt charged any additional fees as a result of the late payment. And that it hadnt 
done anything wrong in sending the email letter of arrears when the payment was late.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr H feels strongly about this matter. And I understand why he feels that an 
arrears letter might be viewed as unnecessary in the circumstances. Im sorry to learn this 
caused him some upset.
Having said that I dont think that Hitachi was wrong to send it. If a payment doesnt arrive on 
the due date, a business isnt to know if or when it might arrive. The letter itself was couched 
in factual and moderate terms. And included a proviso that if payments had been made 
within the previous five days, no further action was required. Its usually considered to be in 
a consumers interests to be made aware if payments havent arrived. It can help avoid 
adverse entries on credit files.
Mr H entered a fixed sum loan agreement in November 2019. The terms of the agreement 
included monthly payments of £133.01 over a period of 36 months. The agreement provided 
that the date on which payments were due would be the same date each month after the first 
payment had been made. In this case that was the 13th day. But that it was permissible to 
change these arrangements after the first payment date.
Mr H decided he wished to pay by standing order as opposed to direct debit. And change to 
a payment date that he found more convenient.
Hitachi contact notes record that on 20 March 2020, Mr H notified it of the change to the 
standing order and that payments would be made on the 10th of each month.
Like many things its often easier to understand in hindsight whats probably happened than 
it mightve been in real time. 
10 April 2020 was Good Friday. And so the payment wasnt processed on that date. As a 
result an automated email letter was later sent to Mr H indicating that there had been a 
missed payment.
Hitachi has accepted that its call handler- when noting the change of date and type of 
payment - should have confirmed that additional time might be needed to ensure that 
payments were received in time. And I cant disagree.
But the welcome letter dated 14 November 2019, which had been sent to Mr H at the start of 
the agreement did contain information to show that five working days should be allowed for 
payments which were made by internet or telephone banking. I think that Mr H ought 
reasonably to have known that standing order payments may be additionally delayed around 
bank holiday week-ends and taken this into account when determining the date for which he 
set up the standing order. It was particularly unfortunate that the first payment after the 
alteration should happen to coincide with the longest bank holiday week-end of all.
Not every error by a business requires the award of compensation. Hitachis final response 
letter contained an explanation of what had happened and a suggestion as to how that might 
be avoided in future, together with an apology. No charge was applied to Mr Hs account as 
a result of the late payment. I find that Hitachi dealt with the complaint in a fair and 
reasonable manner. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman