DRN-2562819
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited trading as Assurant 
Solutions (Assurant) handled a claim he made on his mobile phone insurance policy.
There were third parties acting on behalf of Assurant during the claim but for ease I will refer 
only to Assurant.
What happened
Mr N had the benefit of a mobile phone insurance policy. At the beginning of 2020 Mr N sent 
his phone to Assurant along with his claim form, which noted that he believed the charging 
port was faulty.
A couple of days later Mr N received a replacement phone, however the replacement phone 
was also faulty and wouldnt charge. And Mr N says the replacement phones battery was 
worse than the phone he had originally sent it. Mr N contacted Assurant Solutions, who sent 
him a return packet so he could return the phone free of charge. He posted the phone back 
around 10 days after he originally received it.
A few days after posting the second phone back, Mr N received a third phone. Mr N says the 
third phones battery was worse than both of the previous phones and had a shorter battery 
life.
Mr N raised a complaint about the quality of the phones he had been sent and about the 
inconvenience he had been caused by this situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and Ill explain why.
Mr Ns mobile phone insurance policy allows Assurant to settle a claim by either providing a 
replacement phone or by offering a cash settlement. The policy goes on to state that where it 
provides a replacement mobile phone, the replacement may be a remanufactured (not 
brand new) device. But also specifies that a replacement phone will be the same make, 
model and memory size where possible.
Assurant wasnt able to repair Mr Ns phone so opted to provide replacements in the first 
instance, which theyre entitled to do. Mr N says that Assurants use of the word 
remanufactured in the policy means that he should have received a certified refurbished 
phone or a cash settlement to purchase one directly from the maker. Mr N has referred to 
the European Remanufacturing Councils definition of Remanufacturing which states that 
remanufacturing is the process of returning a used product to at least its original 
performance. But I havent seen anything in the policy which suggests Assurant intended 
to adopt that particular definition. And as there is no definition of the word remanufactured, I 
would consider the general meaning of the word, which I take to mean the process of 
manufacturing something again. 
Based on that, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that any replacement phone needs to 
be a brand certified replacement in order to meet this definition. And in any case, I can see 
that the guidance from the brand of phone on battery life suggests that 80% battery heath is 
within a normal range and that this will sometimes depend on the length of time between 
when the battery was made and when the phone is activated. And while remanufactured 
may be the wording used on some websites to describe the condition of their phones, Mr N 
has provided no convincing evidence that it should have the meaning of a brand certified 
refurbished phone under the terms of this policy.
Regardless of this, Assurant ultimately settled the claim by way of a cash settlement. Its 
clear that Mr Ns phone was of a very high standard and he had recently had the battery 
replaced, giving him battery health of 100%. However the policy doesnt guarantee that any 
replacement will have a like for like battery life  only that the make, model and memory size 
will be the same.
So based on the evidence sent to me, it seems that Assurant have provided a settlement 
which is sufficient for Mr N to purchase a suitable replacement under the terms of the policy. 
And Assurant has also provided Mr N with £45 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, which he is able to use to purchase a mint condition phone if he 
chooses to.
Ultimately, while I can see that the battery life of the phone is important to Mr N, Assurant 
didnt guarantee that he would receive a phone with the same battery life as part of the 
policy. So I dont think its made a mistake in the comparisons it has made when considering 
the cash settlement for the model Mr N had originally.
Mr N would like Assurant to refund the £75 excess he paid but I dont think it would be fair 
for me to ask Assurant to do this. The £75 excess would have been applicable to this claim 
whether Mr N received a replacement phone or a cash settlement, so I see no reason to 
waive that excess in this instance.
Mr N has also said that Assurant should pay the difference between the cash settlement it 
offered for his original phone and the cost of a brand certified refurbished phone, which 
would be a higher model as that is the oldest model it sells directly. This cost would be £344. 
But for the reasons outlined above, I dont agree Assurant needs to do that here as I think 
the amount already offered is fair in the circumstances. And I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask Assurant to pay for the cost of Mr N purchasing a phone of a 
higher specification that the one he had originally.
Mr N thinks Assurant should pay him £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him as a result of this claim. However I dont agree thats appropriate here. While I 
can see Mr N did enter into correspondence with Assurant, I think that was necessary to 
discuss his claim and the result of Mr Ns phone not working, which isnt Assurants fault. 
There were instances where it communicated via telephone when Mr N preferred email 
correspondence and there were some delays in sending him a prepaid envelope to return 
the phone. However Assurant reimbursed Mr Ns costs in returning the phone himself and 
paid Mr N £45 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of 
this. So taking everything into account I think £45 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman