DRN-3580036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say TSB Bank plc has unfairly charged them £5886.51 after two international 
payments they made were returned by the receiving bank. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H visited one of the banks branches as they needed to transfer around 
£108,000 and wanted to be sure it was done properly. The branch was unable to send the 
money and after a delay recommended Mr and Mrs H try from home. They successfully sent 
two payments of £75,000 and £33,621.12 (converted into euros) on 13 and 14 January 
2021. But both payments were returned on 17 January 2021 as Mr and Mrs H had provided 
incorrect information on the payment instructions. 
Due to the differences in exchange rates Mr and Mrs H received back almost £6,000 less 
than they sent. TSB explained it had not made an error and confirmed the euro/sterling 
exchange rates used when the money was both sent and returned.
Mr and Mrs H said there is no justification for such a large charge for payments that never 
went anywhere. The difference in the buy and sell exchange rates TSB used is scandalous. 
And had the international payments team been able to send their money correctly on the day 
they were in the branch this would never have happened.   
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. He confirmed the relevant rates 
for the transactions - €1.160906:£1 on payment one on the 13 January and €1.59985:£1 on 
payment two on 14 January, and €1.235080:£1 when payment one was returned and 
€1.233487:£1 on payment two. He acknowledged that Mr and Mrs H thought the difference 
between the buy and sell rates to be much too high, but explained that was not atypical and 
he gave a number of examples of the variance in buy and sell rates at a point in time across 
the currency markets. He noted that the difference in TSBs rates was substantially better. 
He accepted Mr and Mrs H had unfortunately made a genuine error when they provided their 
payment instructions but said TSB had not done anything wrong when it used the rates it 
did.  He said its international payments page makes clear the exchange rates used will vary 
continuously.   
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review. They said 
whilst they had expected to pay a transaction fee they cannot afford to be so much out of 
pocket as a result of a simple mistake.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im afraid I cannot fairly uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I do empathise 
with the position they find themselves in, but I can find no grounds to hold the bank liable for 
their financial loss. 
It is not in dispute that Mr and Mrs H incorrectly set up the payment instructions, and the 
screen clearly sets out what information is required. They argue that had the branch been 
able to send the transfer successfully this would never have happened, but this does not 
take away from the fact that it was their responsibility to ensure they gave accurate 
instructions. I note what happened in the branch that day was investigated by TSB as a 
separate complaint. Mr H accepted the compensation the bank offered, and the complaint 
was closed. 
With regards the exchange rates used when the money was returned, the investigator 
explained that all organisations offer consumers different buy and sell rates, and illustrated 
that the difference in TSBs rates is competitive in the market. In addition, TSB made clear 
that the exchange rates are updated continuously on its international payments instructions 
form. So I find no error in the currency conversion on either payment. 
It follows, whilst I can see how distressing it is for Mr and Mrs H that their error has had such 
a significant financial impact, I cannot fairly say the bank should instead suffer the loss as it 
made no mistakes. And so I am not asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman