DRN-3931328
The complaint
Mr B complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI), who declined his claim under his home 
insurance (contents) policy. 
What happened
Mr B had insurance on his pedal bike. The bike was stolen, and he made a claim. During the 
claims assessment, UKI found that Mr Bs bike hadnt been secured with an approved lock at 
the time of the theft. Because of this and other reasons such as the bike not being secured 
to the standard that the policy outlined. And that Mr B failed to register or declared the value 
of his bike, as per the policy terms and conditions, UKI declined his claim. 
Mr B complained to UKI. He said that the communication from UKI was misleading as he 
wasnt aware of the new terms. In its final response, it maintained its decision to decline Mr 
Bs claim. It said the bike wasnt specified on the policy and Mr B didnt comply with the 
quote instructions, the bike wasnt secured with the correct locks. It also didnt feel that its 
communication or the policy was misleading. It gave Mr B his referral rights and he referred 
a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the policy had been clear and not misleading. He said that Mr B had an obligation 
to ensure that he read the policy and if there had been anything that he didnt understand, he 
had the opportunity to ask UKI for further information, which he did not do. He also said that 
Mr B did not comply with the terms of the policy such as securing his bike with an approved 
lock or specifying the bike on the policy. And because of this, UKI had been fair to decline 
the claim. 
UKI accepted the view, Mr B did not. He said the view didnt take into consideration that he 
had vulnerabilities that meant he found it difficult to understand the policy and UKI ought to 
have explained it to him fully, which it didnt do. He felt that UKI shouldve simply outlined the 
key terms, again which it didnt do. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr B, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the comments made by both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. The main issue of this complaint is whether UKI were fair in declining Mr Bs 
claim. Mr B said that due to his vulnerabilities he was unable to understand the writing or 
format of the policy. He felt that UKI shouldve just told him about the key changes in the 
policy. 
UKI said that the policy was sent to Mr B and wasnt misleading in anyway. Mr B simply 
didnt comply with the terms of the policy such as using an approved lock, specifying the bike 
on the policy, or securing the bike as the policy outlined it should. 
Ive had a look at the policy terms and conditions to see what the obligations were for both 
parties. And the particular points Ive considered are, the obligations of securing the bike 
with an approved lock, securing the bike as outlined in the policy and whether the bike had 
been specified by Mr B.  I have also considered whether the terms were misleading or not. 
I have been provided with the policy schedule from both parties. And although there were 
four different bikes that were specified on the schedule, the bike that was stolen, wasnt. The 
bike Mr B said was worth over £1,500 and the policy states that bikes of that value must be 
specified with a valuation on the policy. 
The policy states that any item over an amount should be notified to the insurer: you will 
need to give us proof of the items value. This kind of term is not unusual for home insurance 
policies. Mr B said that the term was misleading and UKI shouldve just sent him details of 
the key changes. So, Ive had a look into this. 
In December 2020, Mr B was sent via email details about the renewal. He was told that the 
policy underwriters would be changing and was asked to provide details of any bikes or 
other valuables that were over the value of £2,500. 
Notwithstanding this letter, UKI said that it also sent information to Mr B about how to value 
the bike, how it would require the bike to be specified on the policy, in order to be covered. It 
also said that Mr B was given information that he would have to provide a receipt to UKI, in 
the event of a claim being made. 
Mr B has provided no evidence that at the time that he received the initial letter, or when he 
received the policy renewal documents, that he was unaware of what they were asking or 
what the terms meant. In addition, I note that there is a 14-day cooling off period, which I 
think would ve allowed Mr B to further consider whether the policy was suitable for his 
needs. I think that had he felt that the policy wasnt suitable or if he didnt understand the 
terms of the policy, he would ve had enough time (even after the policy renewed) to contact 
UKI for an explanation or to cancel the policy if he felt it wasnt suitable. 
Consequently, I cant agree that Mr B was misled, nor can I agree that he specified the bike 
on the policy as he was required to do. 
I have next considered whether the bike had been secured with an approved lock. Mr B said 
that one of the locks he used was a category four lock that had high security. He said that he 
had locked the bike to a frame and a wheel. 
UKI relied on the policy terms and conditions. It said that contained within the terms were an 
outline of what kind of approved locks, should be used and to what standard those locks 
should be. The policy states: pedal cycle(s) exceeding a cycle value £1,500 require a solid 
secure gold lock. UKI said that the reason why the policy specified the gold secure lock, is 
that it makes it difficult for the bike to be stolen.
I can see that in the insurance policy information document as well as the policy wording, 
both prominently mention the solid secure gold lock. And although I accept that Mr B had a 
lock on the bike, the lock he had was not an approved lock as he was required to have. Im also satisfied that UKI had informed Mr B of the kind of lock required, given it was mentioned 
in several areas of the insurance documents.  So, Im unable to agree that UKI were 
unreasonable to decline Mr Bs claim for this reason as well. 
Mr B said that the bike was secured to a bike rack and that according to the policy, a bike 
rack was considered to be an immovable object. 
UKI said that although Mr B had secured the bike to the bike rack, the lock that he used to 
secure it was the inbuilt lock from the rack. That lock wasnt secure enough (to the standard 
that the policy wanted) and was a basic unrated lock that meant that the bike could (and 
was) easily stolen. 
Having reviewed the photos that Mr B sent in support, I can see that the lock didnt appear to 
be damaged, and Im persuaded by UKIs comments that it was an easy lock to be 
penetrated. Consequently, I cant agree that the bike was secured to the level that the policy 
required. And UKI were fair to decline the claim on this basis also. 
I understand that Mr B said that he felt that the policy had changed to an extent that the 
terms were misleading. He explained that he has particular vulnerabilities that would mean 
that UKI should have explained the terms to him: I needed the finer points explained. If you 
could listen to the first policy phone call from about 4 years ago it will be very obvious. I do 
not fell that the insurance offered met my needs because the key differences did not get 
explained.
UKI said that as Mr B chose to renew the policy online (as this was renewed during the 
weekend) he wouldve had to have confirmed that he read the policy. And with this 
understood the changed terms before he could renew the policy. 
It further explained that the policy changes had become a non-advised sale. This meant that 
were not advising/recommending that Mr B take up the renewal. This would have meant that 
it was up to Mr B to be satisfied that the policy was suitable for his needs. UKI confirmed that 
the changes were outlined in emails and that the changes were discussed with Mr B over the 
phone. 
Although I accept that Mr B has these vulnerabilities, I understand that he was sent emails 
that outlined the changes to the policy. And UKI discussed the changes over the phone with 
him.  In addition, Mr B was given a 14-day cooling off period (after the policy renewed) which 
wouldve allowed him more time to be satisfied that the policy was sufficient for his needs.  
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that the information that UKI gave Mr B was 
clear, fair, and not misleading. I dont agree that any of the terms were unusual or onerous 
that wouldve needed UKI to further explain them. But Im satisfied that UKI did take steps to 
provide Mr B with enough information to make an informed choice. Accordingly, I think Mr B 
was given time to read the new terms, as well as an opportunity to have spoken to UKI, had 
there been any aspect of the terms that he didnt fully understand. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr B will be, Im 
satisfied that UKI fairly declined his claim under the policy terms and conditions. As Mr B 
hadnt specified the bike on the policy, hadnt secured the bike to the standard outlined in the 
policy. Nor had he used an approved lock on the bike as the policy required. Accordingly, I 
cant fairly ask UKI to do anything more to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman