DRN-4112889
The complaint
Mr T complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money held him liable for a 
£5,000 loan that he says was taken out as part of a scam. Mr T says the loan has now been 
sold to a collections company. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. She said that Mr T had given 
scammers personal information that enabled them to take out the loan on his behalf. The 
scammers had attempted to take other loans out before which were rejected. The 
investigator said that Mr T was more than likely aware of the loan after it was taken out. 
Thats because Mr T said he received the application confirmation e-mail and the funds into 
his account. And he then transferred the loan funds to the scammers after being told he 
didnt need to pay it back. So, she felt the fairest thing to do would be to only hold Mr T liable 
for the capital sum of £5,000. And that Madison had to remove any record of the loan from 
Mr Ts credit file and couldnt ask Mr T to repay any interest and charges because he never 
agreed to the terms and conditions. 
Mr T and Madison disagreed with the investigator and asked for an Ombudsmans review. 
Mr T said that the full loan should be cleared because he was scammed and didnt agree to 
take it out. He said more weight should be given to the fact that the loan was only taken out 
as a result of a scam and that he was following the instructions of the scammers when he 
transferred the money. Mr T added that the loan has been sold to a collections company 
who now want him to repay around £8,000. 
Madison said that Mr T was aware he was applying for a loan and that he was under the 
impression from the scammers that it didnt need to be paid back because of a loop-hole. 
So, Mr T should be held liable for the capital sum, interest and charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding the complaint in part. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
To decide this complaint, I need to consider whether Mr T agreed to take out this loan and to 
be bound by the terms and conditions. 
Mr T downloaded software to his phone that enabled the scammers to apply for loans in his 
name. He also provided the scammers with the necessary personal information when he set 
up an account with them. So, Im satisfied Madison didnt do anything wrong when it 
accepted the loan here. The fraudster was able to obtain the necessary personal details in 
order to pass the checks that Madison reasonably carried out.
The issue here is that when Mr T received the application confirmation e-mail and funds into 
his account he spoke to the scammer and then transferred the money to the scammers. That 
means that Mr T subsequently benefited from the loan in that he was happy to accept liability 
for it under the promise that he wouldnt have to pay it back. 
I accept Mr T says he was told by the scammers that the money was being given to him by 
the scammers company. But he was aware of two failed loan applications with other 
companies at the same time. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to check who 
the money was coming from before sending this to the scammers. And if he had done so he 
wouldve seen that the money he received into his account was from a loan company and 
not the scammers. 
Putting things right
So, having considered everything thats happened here I believe Mr T should be held 
responsible for the capital sum - £5,000. But it was the scammers who applied for the loan 
and agreed to the terms and conditions  not Mr T. As a result, Madison cant fairly hold Mr 
T liable for the interest and charges. It should remove the loan from his credit file and buy it 
back from the collection company.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 
118 118 Money can ask Mr T to repay the capital sum of £5,000. But it cannot add any 
interest or charges to the loan. And it must remove the loan from Mr Ts credit file and buy it 
back from the collections company. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman