DRN-3332337
The complaint
Mr V complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made an entry about him on  
fraud prevention databases in connection with a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr V used a broker to apply for a mortgage with NatWest in September 2020. NatWest 
declined the application and left a fraud marker on two fraud prevention databases. The 
databases are cross-industry fraud prevention databases which allow financial services 
providers to share relevant information, subject to safeguards.
Mr V said he wasnt told why the fraud markers were applied. He thinks a mistake has been 
made and that the markers should be removed.
NatWest say there were discrepancies in the information they were provided with, and that 
theyre not prepared to remove the fraud markers. The markers were applied for mortgage 
application fraud.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He considered the bank statements Mr V 
provided us with against the bank statements that were provided to NatWest in connection 
with the mortgage application. He said he could see clear discrepancies between the two 
sets of bank statements. Mr V also sent us some email correspondence between him and 
his broker. Our investigator considered those too. However, he didnt think they made a 
difference to the outcome. Overall he didnt think NatWest had made a mistake in relation to 
this matter.
Mr V remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said this 
matter has been very distressing for him and his family, and hes conscious of the potential 
implications of the fraud markers for him.
After our investigator sent Mr V his view on his complaint Mr V sent us a copy of information 
NatWest sent him after he made a subject access request (SAR). He asked the 
ombudsman to consider that information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services landscape, 
allowing sharing of information and assisting in the prevention of fraud. However, the 
consequences for an individual of being added to a database can be severe, so its 
important that a marker is only entered where it can be justified. 
The standard of proof for putting a marker on the fraud prevention databases is that there 
must be clear, relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that NatWest could confidently 
report the matter to the police or other authorities (whether or not they have actually done 
so). 
The standard required is therefore one of reasonable suspicion, not proof. But there must be 
evidence of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
Ive looked at how NatWest considered Mr Vs mortgage application in order to decide 
whether they acted fairly here. Ive also considered the bank statements Mr V provided the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with and the bank statements that were provided to NatWest 
during the application. Like our investigator I can see clear discrepancies between the two 
sets of bank statements. Amongst other things, Ive also considered the email 
correspondence between Mr V and his broker, and the information Mr V was sent after he 
made a SAR.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why NatWest had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
application. I can see that there were discrepancies between the information the broker 
provided and the information provided when NatWest checked that information. In addition, 
NatWest have told us why they had concerns about what Mr V had told them (via his broker) 
about his income. 
Mr V has complained that NatWest have been vague about the reasons for the fraud 
markers. I appreciate his frustration about this, and dont underestimate his concern about 
the impact of the fraud markers on him. However, I understand why NatWest have provided 
Mr V with the amount of detail they did, and dont think they acted inappropriately on this 
point.  
Taking this matter as a whole, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly when they recorded the 
fraud markers, or when it decided not to remove the markers. It follows that I dont require 
NatWest to remove the markers now. 
I appreciate that Mr V is unlikely to be happy with my decision, but for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think NatWest need to do anything to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman