DRN-3694535
The complaint
Mr S complains Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB) has declined a series of claims he brought 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ss case on 26 August 2022. In this I said I was minded 
to uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. Both parties to the case have seen, read and accepted 
my provisional decision so I will only summarise as briefly as possible (given the large 
number of claims) what happened.
Mr S entered a series of agreements with entities claiming to be able to help him with 
timeshare or holiday club memberships he owns or previously owned. He made payments 
towards these agreements with his AIB credit card.
These agreements turned out to be scams of a common type which targets people who have 
owned timeshare or holiday club memberships. When Mr S appreciated he had been the 
victim of a series of scams, he attempted to recoup the money he had paid by making a 
series of section 75 claims to AIB. It seems AIB settled a number of claims but had refused 
to honour some others. These claims related to the following seven agreements:
Number Date Paid AmountContracting 
EntityPayee Uphold
1 June 2010 £1,247.82 AGV AV Y
2 Jan 2013 £1,175 GSS HFI N
3 Dec 2013 £1,895 GRGS KP Y
4 June 2013 £1,622.57 EXSM/BAD EXSM Y
5 Aug 2013 £1,224.70 FHC DS/DW Y
6 Nov 2013 £989.90 EXG GEX Y
7 April 2013 £1,496.52 HNC SACDA/SLF Y
I provided a key to the various abbreviations in covering letters to my provisional decision. It 
was necessary to use these abbreviations as Im required to anonymise companies and 
individuals in my decisions. 
The amounts in the table correspond only to any amounts paid on the AIB credit card 
towards the agreements in question. Mr S sometimes made additional payments by bank 
transfer or debit card. In my provisional decision I explained that I was minded to say AIB 
should have honoured Mr Ss section 75 claims in relation to the contracts with a Y in the 
Uphold column.
I should say here that AIB has not disputed that the agreements were scams or that 
misrepresentations were made to Mr S. However, in my provisional decision I outlined that 
contracts 1, 2 and 4 to 7, and Mr Ss description of what had happened, all fit the pattern of a 
scam which had been warned about by authorities as far back as 2009. I described the scam 
as follows:
In general, a consumer would receive an unsolicited call from a company which claimed to 
have a buyer in place for an unwanted timeshare or holiday club product. An upfront fee 
would be requested by the company which would be described as a security deposit or 
something similar. In reality, the buyer was entirely fictitious and the sale would fall through. 
Variations on the scam include persuading the consumer to pay over further funds in an 
attempt to pursue the lost sale, and/or part exchanging their unwanted timeshare along with 
more money, for another holiday product of dubious value.
The reason AIB had declined the claims was because Mr S had not used his credit card to 
pay the same company he had made an agreement with. This, it said, meant the debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement which needed to be in place for a valid section 75 claim 
to be made, was broken with respect to those agreements. 
In my provisional decision I agreed that there was not a valid DCS agreement in place for 
contract 2. However, I considered there was such an agreement in place for all of contracts 
1, and 3 to 7. 
I described the significance of the DCS agreement in the following terms:
Section 75 says the following:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
This section refers back to sections 12(b) and (c) of the CCA, which define the DCS 
agreement. A payment on a credit card falls under section 12(b), and is described as follows:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier
Section 11(1)(b), which is referred to, expands as follows:
A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement

(b)to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other than the 
creditor
Reading all of these relevant sections together, its apparent that in order for a person to be 
able to bring a claim against their credit card issuer under section 75, the credit card needs 
to have financed a transaction between them and a supplier. There also need to have been pre-existing arrangements between the creditor and the supplier.1 Finally, the person 
needs to have a claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract.
The problem therefore with having a credit card payment go to someone other than the 
supplier, is that the payment will not have been made by the creditor under pre-existing 
arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the 
supplier. The payment will have been made instead under the pre-existing arrangements 
between the creditor and the actual payee. This means there would be no debtor-creditor- 
supplier agreement in place and therefore one of the key ingredients for a section 75 claim 
to be made would be missing.
I went on to consider exceptions to the general rule, noting a relevant exception stemming 
from the High Court case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 QB. This 
case had shown that it was possible for pre-existing arrangements to exist between a 
creditor and supplier, where a third party had collected card payments from a debtor on 
behalf of the supplier. I observed that it was quite a complicated area but that where one 
company acted simply as a payment agent for the supplier, pre-existing arrangements could 
be held to exist between the supplier and creditor, and a valid DCS agreement would also 
exist which would allow the debtor to make a claim under section 75.
For contracts 1 and 4 I didnt think the exception needed to be applied. This was because 
my analysis was that Mr S had in fact paid the companies he had entered agreements with 
and which had made misrepresentations to him. There was therefore obviously a valid DCS 
agreement for those contracts.
For contracts 5, 6 and 7 I noted the suppliers had used a third party solely for the purpose of 
collecting the card payment(s) from Mr S. There was documentation to show this. Indeed, for 
contracts 5 and 7 Mr S had even needed to sign a separate form to indicate his 
understanding that the payees were only taking payment and had no other role in the 
transaction. I thought the scenarios in these contracts were sufficiently similar to that in the 
Alfred Truman case to conclude that there should be taken to be pre-existing arrangements 
between the suppliers and AIB. So I concluded there were valid DCS agreements for those 
contracts as well.
Contract 2 was different. I found that Mr S had signed two contracts, one with the supplier 
and one with the payee. The contract he signed with the payee declared that the payee was 
not an agent or partner of the supplier, and that it was providing Mr S with an identity 
verification and document collection and storage service. I considered this was too far 
removed from the scenario in Alfred Truman, where the payee had not had any contract or 
agreement with the debtors. I therefore concluded there was not a valid DCS agreement for 
contract 2.
Contract 3 was the odd one out overall, because it was not the same kind of fictitious buyer 
scam as the other contracts. My analysis of contract 3 in my provisional decision was as 
follows:
1 The creditor and supplier do not need to have a specific agreement with one another for there to be 
pre-existing arrangements between them. The fact that both the creditor and the supplier have used 
the payment clearing and settlement services offered by the card scheme (e.g. Visa) and a merchant 
bank (acquirer) in order to facilitate the payment is enough to say pre-existing arrangements are in 
place (see OFT v. Lloyds TSB Bank PLC & Ors [2007] UKHL 48, along with related judgments in 
more junior courts).Mr S says he was contacted by GRGS in February 2013, who held themselves out to be a 
mediation company based in Spain who would investigate the mis-sale of the various holiday 
products and resale services Mr S had purchased, and pursue action through the courts. He 
made an initial payment to them via debit card, which is outside of the scope of the 
complaint against AIB. He also signed a contract which said the following about costs:
The fees for the services are stipulated in this contractual agreement and will be satisfied 
under the following criteria: a payment of 2,750 Pound Sterling to start with the court 
proceedings as well as studying the CLIENTS legal situation. On completion of the 
settlement the lawyer will take 15% plus 18% value added tax of the monetary value 
awarded on any given case managed by the lawyer plus additional costs such as procurator 
costs and court fees which may vary.
A number of months later representatives of GRGS contacted Mr S to say they intended to 
take his case to court but there would be a fee of £1,895 for the prosecutor but this was a 
complete[ly] refundable fee once it has been resolved in the courts Mr S paid this 
amount by credit card. He was informed the payment would appear on his statement as 
having gone to KP. KP appears to have been a payment facilitator working within the 
boundaries of the card scheme rules, so I dont think the fact their services were used to 
process Mr Ss card payment means that there isnt a valid DCS agreement.
I think the main question in terms of contract 3 is whether there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by GRGS. On balance, based on the limited evidence available, I think 
the contract was likely breached, or alternatively GRGS didnt intend to take Mr Ss case to 
court and this was another scam, albeit a somewhat more sophisticated one.
I say this because Mr S says the only update he received after making the additional 
payment was that the case was awaiting a court date. This seems to have been eight or 
more years ago and my understanding is that Mr S hasnt heard anything from GRGS since, 
despite asking for evidence of the work theyve done for him. In the absence of evidence of 
GRGS having taken the actions they said they would after receiving the £1,895 payment, I 
conclude the contract was breached and Mr S would be entitled to a full refund.
I went on to summarise that AIB, by virtue of section 75 of the CCA, could be held liable by 
Mr S for the various misrepresentations and breaches of contract which had occurred across 
all of the contracts apart from contract 2. I therefore considered the bank had been wrong to 
decline most of Mr Ss claims.
To put things right, I said I was minded to direct AIB to take the following actions:
1. Refund or reimburse all amounts Mr S has paid towards contracts 1, 4, 5, 6 
and 7, including amounts paid on the AIB credit card, along with any debit 
card payments and bank transfers.
2. Refund the amount of £1,895 Mr S paid towards contract 3.
3. Pay 8% simple interest per year* on any refunds, calculated from the 
date the payments were originally made, to the date the refunds are paid 
to Mr S.
I indicated that AIB could deduct income tax from compensatory interest as 
appropriate. I asked Mr S and AIB to respond to my provisional decision by 9 September 2022. 
Both Mr S and AIB said they would accept my provisional decision. The case has 
now been returned to me to finalise matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision and have not put forward any new 
evidence, comments or arguments for me to consider. I therefore see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision which I have summarised and quoted 
from above. 
It follows that I will uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and make the following directions:
Putting things right
To put things right, Allied Irish Banks Plc must take the following actions:
1. Refund or reimburse all amounts Mr S has paid towards contracts 1, 4, 5, 6 
and 7, including amounts paid on the AIB credit card, along with any debit 
card payments and bank transfers.2
2. Refund the amount of £1,895 Mr S paid towards contract 3.
3. Pay 8% simple interest per year* on any refunds, calculated from the 
date the payments were originally made, to the date the refunds are paid 
to Mr S.
*If Allied Irish Banks Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons explained in this final decision, I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and direct 
Allied Irish Banks Plc to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section of this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman
2 AIB should have on its files the evidence of the other payments Mr S made towards the contracts. 
Mr S summarised the amounts he paid and provided various statements. However, if something is 
missing then AIB can contact this service and we will be able to provide this information.