DRN-3977557
The complaint
Mr T complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave him a line of credit he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr T approached Drafty for a running credit facility in September 2018. Mr T was given a
facility with a £500 credit limit. Drafty increased Mr Ts credit limit on two occasions taking 
his credit limit to £1,040 by the January 2019 statement. Drafty has confirmed that by 
February 2023, an outstanding balance remained due of around £1,702.63.
Mr T was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr T was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter (August 2022) it explained the information it gathered from 
Mr T before it approved the facility which showed hed be able to afford it. However, it did 
accept, that the facility was likely unsustainable for Mr T from 21 August 2019. To put things 
right for Mr T, Drafty offered to.
Refund all interest and fees incurred on new drawdowns from 21 August 2019.
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, and then take tax off of this at a rate of 20%. 
Use this refund to offset against Mr Ts current outstanding balance. 
Remove any negative markers from Mr Ts credit file from 21 August 2019.
Mr T didnt agree with the offer and instead referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint 
and, in her latest assessment, she partly upheld it. 
The adjudicator thought the checks Drafty carried out before initially granting this facility 
were proportionate and showed Drafty that Mr T was likely to be able to afford the payment 
amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment schedule in the credit agreement. This was 
calculated on the full £500 being drawn down at the outset and then being repaid over 
12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mr T with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable at the outset, it 
also had an obligation to monitor Mr Ts ongoing use of the facility. And the adjudicator 
thought, that when Drafty increased Mr Ts credit limit a second time to £1,040 than it 
needed to have carried out further checks. At the time the view was sent, the adjudicator 
believed the credit limit increased occurred in December 2018. 
The adjudicator reviewed Mr Ts bank statements from November and December 2018, and 
she concluded, that not only was the new proposed credit limit unaffordable for Mr T but 
Drafty wouldve seen  by carrying out further checks that the whole facility was unaffordable 
for him. This was because, his outgoings exceeded his income, and the adjudicator could 
see that Mr T appeared to be taking payday loans to cover his living costs such as his rent. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment, but it did clarify that Mr Ts credit 
limit was increased to £1,040 on 8 January 2019. It agreed to uphold the complaint from the 
same point in time 8 January 2019. But it reiterated that it takes a different view on how the 
redress should be calculated. It thought it should only refund the interest applied to new 
drawdowns from this date, rather than stopping all of the interest which wouldve included 
the current outstanding balance. 
At this time, Drafty explained the refund that would be owed to Mr T (after 8% simple interest 
and tax deductions) would be £394.95. However, as part of this Drafty didnt offer to use this 
to offset the balance that it had told us about only a matter of weeks before.  
This offer was put to Mr T and the adjudicator explained, that if an outstanding balance 
remained it wouldnt be unreasonable for Drafty to use this refund to offset any outstanding 
balance. Later, the adjudicator clarified with Mr T her thoughts about what may happen with 
his credit file. 
Mr T responded, saying he disagreed with Draftys offer to put things right and instead he 
asked for his case to go further. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. Any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. 
As explained, Mr T was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr T would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Ts repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  so when it increased Mr Ts credit limit to £1,040 on 
8 January 2019. And while, Mr T rejected the settlement offer by Drafty, he hasnt disagreed 
that this is the point where the complaint ought to be upheld. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties agree the complaint about the facility should be upheld 
from 8 January 2019. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Mr Ts complaint. 
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr T while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged on the facility after the 8 January 2019 needs to be refunded. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in January 2019 when it ought to have realised Mr T couldnt afford the facility. There 
were a number of options which Drafty could have taken. But seeing as none of these were 
taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken  as it agrees. Ive considered 
what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after the event. 
And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing this sometime after the 
event. 
Mr Ts credit limit was proposing to have been doubled in a matter of months then it wouldve 
been reasonable for Drafty to have made further checks to ensure that Mr T could afford the 
limit increase. And had further checks been carried out not only would Drafty have realised 
the new credit limit was unaffordable for Mr T but the whole facility was as well. 
I say this because at the time Mr T was serving another payday loan for £700  which he 
seems to have taken out to pay his rent in December 2018. And only a couple of weeks 
before this, he had borrowed £200 from the same lender.  To me this is a clear indicator that 
Mr T was having difficulties, as he was using expensive, short-term credit to cover his priority 
bills. On top of this, Mr T was serving a guarantor loan which was costing him almost £400 
per month. 
So, by the end of December 2018, Mr T owed £900 to a payday lender, already had a 
monthly commitment of £400 to a guarantor loan and a rent payment of £700. Clearly, with 
his other costs that I can see such as food, TV subscriptions, utilities and a catalogue 
shopping account, Mr T couldnt afford the credit limit increase. But actually he also couldnt 
afford to continue to service this facility in a sustainable manner. 
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unaffordable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the customer 
repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  
So, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Ts total balance, 
in circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, when 
further checks wouldve indicated he was already struggling, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr T, once the point had been reached where Drafty accepted 
the facility was unaffordable, it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mr T to repay 
what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair and reasonable for Drafty to 
have continued charging interest on this balance from 8 January 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that it agrees 
with the point that the complaint has been upheld, it therefore follows that it isnt just the new 
drawdowns that Mr T couldnt afford. He also couldnt afford to repay what he already owed 
 so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further drawdowns need to 
be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. Thinking about this, and the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the complaint 
at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do in 
order to put things right for Mr T. 
Putting things right
In February 2023, Drafty confirmed an outstanding balance remained due, so this redress is 
based on there still being a balance still outstanding. 
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Drafty isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. In order to put things right Drafty should do 
the following: 
Re-work Mr Ts credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
from 8 January 2019 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr T to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ts credit file, it 
should backdate this to January 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr T, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ts credit file.*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr T as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman