DRN-4476123
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with charges invoiced for damages to a car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (MCUK)
What happened
In November 2018 Mr L took a hire agreement with MCUK to acquire a new car. The 
agreement was initially taken over three years.
In November 2022 the car was returned and an inspection took place. This inspection noted 
the following damage and costs which Mr L was invoiced for:
Rear lamp unit right  scuffed - £133.53
Front door right  dirt in paint/poor repair - £140
Front wing right  dull paint/poor repair - £140
Mr L was unhappy with this and complained to MCUK.
MCUK issued its final response in December 2022. This said, in summary, that it was happy 
having reviewed photos from the inspection that all of the damage fell outside of the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations (BVRLAs) guidance to fair wear and tear. It 
confirmed Mr L had a balance to pay of £413.53.
Mr L remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. He said the car was 
immaculate apart from a fine scratch on a light which should be fair wear and tear. And he 
said no repairs had been completed on the car, so any paint work issues were there from 
new.
Our investigator issued an opinion. In summary, he explained he thought the damage to the 
light and the front door fell outside of fair wear and tear guidance. But, he said he didnt think 
this was the case with the wing. So, he said Mr L shouldnt be responsible for this.
MCUK responded and disagreed. It said in the photos of the wing from the inspection, it 
could be seen the paint finish was dull.
Our investigator responded to MCUK and explained he still didnt agree on this point. MCUK 
then got in touch and said it was willing to accept the view if this would resolve the 
complaint.
Mr L got in touch and said he accepted the charge for the light, but not for the paintwork.
As Mr L remained unhappy, the case was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr L and MCUK a provisional decision on 12 October 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr L complains about charges at the end of a hire agreement. Entering into regulated hire 
agreements such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ls 
complaint about MCUK.
Ive firstly considered if MCUK could charge Mr L for damages. Looking at the terms and 
conditions he signed, these said Mr L agreed to:
keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for any damage 
caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as 
indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association
So, Im satisfied Mr L agreed to be charged for any damage to the car outside of the 
BVRLAs guidance.
Ive then considered the areas Mr L was charged for.
In relation to damage to the light, the BVRLA says:
Minor scuff marks or scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable
Looking at the photos of the rear light, I can see two obvious scratches, both of which are 
over 25mm. It follows Im satisfied this falls outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to the paintwork, the BVRLA explains:
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not acceptable
Looking at the photos of the front door, I can see what appear to be marks under the 
paintwork. These areas can be seen reflected in the zebra board in both close up photos of 
the door. Im satisfied this damage falls outside of wear and tear.
Our investigator thought the damage to the wing shouldnt be charged for. But, having 
carefully considered this, I dont agree. There are two key photos of the wing.
One shows a relatively small badge. Around the edge of this badge, I can see quite clear 
variations in the paint work. And the area around the badge reflects differently in the zebra 
board compared to paintwork further out.
The other photo shows a vent near the wheel. Directly to the left of this, the paintwork 
appears to vary down the side of the vent and marks can be seen. Looking at the zebra 
board again, there is a clear difference between the reflection of the paintwork to the right 
and left of the vent. The reflection on the left side is much duller, with a slightly smoky 
appearance compared to the other side.
Finally, although only one area can be seen in each photo, looking at the picture of the 
whole car, it appears the badge is directly over the left hand of the wing  so this could point 
towards a repair from a single incident.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied the damage to the wing also falls outside of fair wear 
and tear.
Ive then carefully thought about what Mr L says here. He said the car was never repaired 
when he had it  so any paintwork issues must have been from the factory. Ive carefully weighed up his testimony. I also understand the difficulty in providing any evidence that 
would show the car wasnt repaired while he had it. And, I accept its possible that the car 
couldve been repaired before he acquired it  for instance at the factory or after shipping.
But that being said, in the absence of evidence either way, I need to consider what, on 
balance, I think is most likely. Having done so, I think its more likely that the damage 
occurred in the four years Mr L had the car and it covered over 30,000 miles, as opposed to 
the damage and a repair taking place before he acquired it.
So, in summary, Im satisfied MCUK are entitled to charge Mr L for any damage that falls 
outside of the BVRLAs guidance to fair wear and tear. And, Im satisfied all of the damage 
Mr L was charged for did fall outside of this guidance.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any further information or evidence.
MCUK didnt reply.
Mr L came back and said he was unhappy with the decision. He said magic and trickery 
had been used to find the damage. He said his car was in perfect condition and returned 
under the mileage allowance. Mr L also said hed like to see proof that the repairs that he 
was invoiced for were actually carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about all of Mr Ls comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Most of what hes said has already been addressed, so I wont repeat myself here. But I will 
point out the use of zebra boards during inspections is standard and I do not agree this is 
trickery.
In relation to Mr L wanting to see evidence of repairs, I dont think this is reasonable. This is 
because the BVRLA explains:
Charges can still be applied at end of lease in cases where the leasing company decides for 
commercial reasons not the repair damage
In this case, Mr L wouldve been charged for the estimated loss of value of the car, not for 
the repairs themselves. Either way, this would be fair and reasonable and in line with the 
BVRLA guidance. So I dont think MCUK need to provide more information or evidence at 
this point.
Ive thought again about all of the other information and evidence on the case. Having done 
so, I still think this complaint should not be upheld. This is due to the same reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 John Bower
Ombudsman