DRN-4467868
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P have complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited didnt 
settle Mrs Ps claim at the correct level.
All references to The Prudential Assurance Company Limited Prudential include its trading 
or other names. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. In summary Mrs P made a claim under the serious illness cover benefit in her policy 
when she received a diagnosis of cancer. Prudential met the claim  it assessed Mrs Ps 
cancer as being severity level D, which equated to 25% benefit. Mrs P felt that her diagnosis 
showed it was severity level C  which equated to 50% benefit. Prudential didnt agree so Mr 
and Mrs P referred their complaint here. 
Our investigator didnt find that Prudential had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs P 
appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint - no discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow me to take this 
approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully 
reviewed the complete file and considered the further medical evidence submitted after our 
investigators view. I recognise that Mr and Mrs P will be very disappointed my decision and 
Im sorry this decision doesnt bring more welcome news. But for the following reasons I 
agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy and the available medical 
evidence, to decide whether I think Prudential treated them fairly.
The policy terms provide that the lump sum payable in the event of a claim depends 
on the severity level of the serious illness. The staging of cancer is assessed using 
The International Union against Cancer TNM Classification of Malignant Tumours 6th 
edition. This is important  as staging classifications may change slightly in later 
editions. The dispute here is as to whether Mrs Ps cancer falls under severity level 
C: Advanced cancer classified as a TNM Group Stage II tumour. Mrs Ps treating 
specialist recorded the cancer as stage 2, as it had spread to the second ovary. 
Accordingly Prudential sought input from its Chief Medical Officer. It also did so in 
response to the further letter from the consultant. I find that was fair.
The pathology report submitted refers to the FIGO staging system, which is based on 
surgical staging. But the criteria for establishing the cancer stage is that set out in the 
policy and referred to above. The stages are based on clinical and/or pathological 
classification. So I find it was fair to use this classification system. But even under the 
FIGO system a classification of stage II requires pelvic extension: Tumour involves 
one or both ovaries with pelvic extension. From the pathology report there is no 
evidence of pelvic extension. The left fallopian tube was noted to be unremarkable. 
However Im satisfied that the classification Prudential used did accord with the 
pathology report. The category T1c states: Tumour limited to one or both ovaries; 
capsule ruptured; tumour on ovarian surface; malignant cells or ascites or peritoneal 
washings.
I understand why Mrs P feels aggrieved. The pathology report does show that there 
is spread from one ovary to the other. And for example, under the 8th edition this 
would mean a classification as stage IIA. But I dont find that Prudential treated Mrs P 
unfairly or unreasonably by using the classification system referred to in her policy 
(6th edition). Im very sorry to bring Mr and Mrs P such unwelcome news, but in all the 
circumstances I dont find that Prudential assessed Mrs Ps claim incorrectly as at 
severity level D, based on the medical evidence to hand.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman