DRN-4130745
The complaint
Mr C, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans (Everyday Loans) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr C took one loan in September 2018 for £5,000 to pay off three or four payday loans and 
to help towards the cost of his forthcoming wedding. It had a loan term of 60 months and 
was due to cost Mr C £198.96 (just under £199) each month. The total cost was scheduled 
to be £11,937.60 but Mr C repaid it after 8 instalments in May 2019 and so he paid just over 
£6,289 in total. 
After Mr Cs representative had complained to Everyday Lending, it responded with its final 
response letter in January 2023 (FRL) and it gave reasons why it did not consider that the 
loan had been lent irresponsibly. 
Mr Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one 
of our adjudicators considered it. He thought that the combination of Mr Cs existing debt, his 
payday commitment and the percentage amount of his income which was needed to repay 
his credit commitments was too high at 57% and so he thought that the loan ought not to 
have been approved. 
 Everyday Lending disagreed and said that
- he was low risk on its internal scoring system
- Everyday Lending was helping Mr C to get out of his payday loan cycle and assist in 
his bank account health
- it was reasonable to use his August 2018 payslip to calculate his year to date salary 
and use that to get an average figure for the months
- Mr C owned his new home outright with no mortgage
- Mr Cs credit file showed no defaults or County Court Judgments (CCJs) with all 
payments up to date and there were no signs of gambling or returned direct debits.
 Mr Cs representative made no comment on our adjudicators opinion.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, 
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Everyday Lending did have detailed information from Mr C such as his payslip from which it 
used a year to date (YTD) figure of £2,256 as Mr Cs average monthly income. Everyday 
Lending had carried out a credit search and had calculated that Mr C had credit commitment 
costs of £1,738 each month which even on Everyday Lendings own figures was a high sum. Everyday Lending used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate what it 
considered was a fair figure for Mr Cs expenditure costs each month. That figure was 
around £834 a month. It reviewed one month of Mr Cs bank account transactions for the 
month leading up to 26 September 2018. 
I do not accept Mr Cs submissions through his representative and his own email giving his 
representative instructions that Everyday Lending lent to him without proper vetting or 
even a though as to how it would affect me financially. And I say that because I have seen 
and demonstrated int his decision that Everyday Lending did make many checks on Mr Cs 
finances before lending. Its what it did with that information which I have looked at carefully. 
And Everyday Lendings account notes plus the checks it did show me that it knew a fair part 
of Mr Cs current domestic and financial circumstances. It knew he was divorced, he paid 
around £366 a month child support and this was through the CSA (Child Support Agency) 
and so it was a set cost. He had a fianc and was due to be married. Hed purchased a 
house mortgage free in June 2018. It had sought copies of the property title deeds to verify 
that. 
And I do not accept Everyday Lendings submission that Mr C had no defaults on his credit 
file as he did have two but they dated from 2014. And Mr C did have a returned direct debit 
apparent on the set of bank account statements he sent to Everyday Lending. 
Everyday Lendings suggestion that Mr Cs low risk score on its internal scoring system is 
not at all persuasive as the creditworthiness assessment carried out before lending needs to 
have been from the borrowers perspective. 
So, from one perspective I can see that Mr C may have been a customer with more solid 
foundations when compared to many other of its customers. But on the other hand, its clear 
from Everyday Lendings own figures that Mr C was overindebted. And although the loan 
may have appeared to have assisted with his payday loans for the immediate period after 
the loan was approved, the term was due to have been for 5 years. And Everyday Lendings 
calculations showed that Mr C would have had very little left over each month  about £138 
 after repaying all his commitments plus the new Everyday Lending loan. For a man in 
Mr Cs circumstances, I consider that to have been a low figure and I agree with our 
adjudicator that his credit commitments took up a large percentage of his income.
I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
The loan was repaid in May 2019. To put things right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Mr C in respect of this loan as payments towards the capital 
amount of £5,000,
If Mr C has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending  to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman