DRN-3585003
The complaint
Mr O complains about how TSB Bank plc dealt with a direct debit indemnity claim he raised 
after purchasing goods that he was unhappy with.
What happened
Mr O holds a bank account with TSB. In May 2022, he purchased some goods from a 
third-party using PayPal, and PayPal debited his account for the sums due via a direct debit.  
Mr O said that at the time of making the payment, he spoke with the retailer to ask what 
would happen if he wasnt happy with the goods. And he said he was told he could return 
them without issue and get a refund. 
Upon receiving the goods, Mr O was unhappy with them and felt they werent as described. 
But when he tried to contact the retailer to return the goods, he couldnt reach them, and he 
said that further contact attempts made were blocked. He also had no success in reclaiming 
the funds from PayPal, so Mr O approached TSB instead to seek to recover the funds. 
There were a number of calls between Mr O and TSB, and TSB agreed to look into matters 
to see if the funds could be reclaimed. But ultimately, Mr O was told that the reason for him 
wanting to recover the funds was not covered under the direct debit guarantee  following 
which, Mr O complained. 
TSB considered the complaint, and maintained their position that the reasons for Mr O 
wanting to recover the funds was not covered under the direct debit guarantee scheme. But 
they did accept that on one of the many calls Mr O had with TSB, he was at one point given 
incorrect advice about raising a payment dispute. So, they paid him £50 by way of 
compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr O brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the matter, but didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld, as 
Mr Os circumstances were not covered by the direct debit guarantee. She accepted that 
there were shortcomings on TSBs part, and that there was some incorrect advice given. 
She also felt that TSB couldve potentially made it clearer earlier in the process, that Mr Os 
claim would not be covered. But ultimately, she felt the £50 compensation they paid, was a 
fair sum to address these shortcomings. 
But Mr O remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os set out his position at length and Id like to thank him for taking the time to do so. And 
I can see there were a number of calls between Mr O and TSB, all of which I have 
thoroughly reviewed. My findings will, however, concentrate on those matters I consider 
central to the outcome of this complaint. So, while I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Mr O has made, I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but reflects the 
informal nature of this service. 
While there are many different interactions that have taken place, and I appreciate Mr O is 
frustrated with the overall situation, in order for me to decide this case, there are three key 
questions I need to answer. 
1) was Mr Os payment, that he sought to claim back, recoverable under the direct debit 
guarantee scheme;
2) if not, was Mr O led to believe that the payment was recoverable; and if so did any 
mis-advice impact any losses Mr O experienced; and
3) were there any other failing on TSBs part for which Mr O should be compensated. 
Ill answer each question in turn.
Was Mr Os payment, that he sought to claim back, recoverable under the direct debit 
guarantee scheme.
I can see that reference has been made to both chargebacks and direct debit indemnity 
reclaims. But to be clear, a chargeback is a transaction reversal made to dispute a card 
transaction in order to secure a refund for a purchase. And so, as Mr Os payment was not 
made using his card, this method would not apply to his circumstances. 
Mr Os payment to purchase goods from the third party was made via PayPal. And the 
relevant scheme by which to seek to recover the money in this case, is the direct debit 
guarantee. 
The rules of the direct debit guarantee state that the guarantee applies to all direct debits, 
and it protects customers in the rare event that there is an error in the payment of their direct 
debit; for instance if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is 
collected. But it also sets out that it cannot be used to address contractual disputes between 
customers and the billing organisation.
In this instance, as Mr Os issue is with the goods he has received, and does not relate to a 
specific issue with the direct debit itself, unfortunately there is no cover for the situation Mr O 
has found himself under this specific scheme.
Was Mr O led to believe that the payment was recoverable; and if so did any mis-advice 
impact any losses Mr O experienced.
Ive now listened to all of the calls between Mr O and TSB. In the earlier calls, TSB made it 
clear that the way for Mr O to seek to recover his payment, would have to be using the direct 
debit scheme. But in each of the calls, while TSB did at times say they were hopeful that 
Mr O would be able to recover his funds, Im satisfied that they also made it clear this was 
not guaranteed, and would be subject to the terms of the direct debit guarantee scheme. 
I appreciate Mr O has said throughout that he was told definitively that the money would be 
sent back to his account. But Ive heard nothing from the calls provided, to evidence this was 
the case. To the contrary, Mr O seems to have been told on several occasions that recovery 
of the funds using this method was not guaranteed. I do however think, that given the 
circumstances Mr O set out, TSB couldve made it clear earlier that his circumstances would 
not be covered, albeit, the delay in letting him know this was not significant. 
In one call, it does appear incorrect advice was given, where Mr O was told hed need to 
raise a payment dispute if the direct debit indemnity claim had failed. This was unfortunate, as it seems this advice was incorrect. So, I can understand why this would have caused Mr O 
frustration, especially when hed previously been correctly told to pursue a different route to 
try and recover the payment. But while the advice at one point was incorrect, this didnt 
seem to prejudice Mr Os position in any way, as this advice was given after the payment 
had already been made. So, I cant see this advice led to any further losses for Mr O.
Were there any other failing on TSBs part for which Mr O should be compensated.
Having listened to all of the calls provided, it seems that throughout, TSB were trying to help 
Mr O with his request, and for the most part had directed him to the correct scheme. In the 
later calls, when it became apparent that his payment could not be recovered under the 
guarantee scheme, TSB were also consistent in the delivery of this message, and 
apologised that they were unable to help, based on his specific circumstances. 
I do agree that the advisor that suggested Mr O raise a payment dispute, did so incorrectly. 
And this resulted in Mr O going away to gather further information to try and support a claim 
under a card payment dispute, which would have never been covered. I also think they 
couldve informed earlier that his claim would not have been successful under the direct 
debit guarantee scheme. 
That being said, TSB have apologised, and accepted that there were shortcomings in their 
service. And they have credited Mr Os account with a payment of £50. And in the 
circumstances, I think this was reasonable. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. I appreciate this was 
not the answer Mr O was hoping for, but I hope Ive been able to set out clearly how Ive 
reached this answer. 
Mr O may want to approach PayPal further, to see if there is anything else they may be able 
to do in respect of this payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman