DRN-2006235
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society did not fully explain that he needed to 
complete a full switch of his current account in order to qualify for an incentive payment.  
What happened
Mr S opened a FlexPlus account with Nationwide following a recommendation from a friend. 
Mr S was expecting £100 as an incentive to be received when the account opened. Mr S 
proceeded to open the account through Nationwides Current Account Switch team. 
Mr S contacted Nationwide to find out when he would receive his £100 incentive for 
switching accounts. At that point Mr S was told that he did not qualify for the incentive since 
his old bank account remained open and therefore he had only made a partial switch. Mr S 
said that he did not ask for a partial switch and that he was not told that he needed to close 
his old bank account to qualify for the incentive. 
Mr S was not happy as he felt that Nationwide should have made it clearer that he needed to 
close his old account in order to qualify for the incentive. Nationwide disagreed and felt that 
their website and the FAQs made it clear that a full account switch was required for the 
incentive. Nationwide did agree that they should have advised Mr S that he had not been 
eligible for the incentive and offered £50 for the inconvenience. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator was satisfied that Nationwide 
had adequately explained the conditions of the incentive to Mr S and that £50 offered by 
Nationwide was fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to partly uphold the complaint. I appreciate that my decision 
will be disappointing for Mr S but I hope that my explanation below will assist in 
understanding the reasons for the decision. 
It is my view that Nationwide have made the terms and conditions of the Refer a Friend 
scheme clear and easily accessible. Nationwide require the customer to read and accept the 
terms of the offer before proceeding. The conditions confirm that in order to qualify under the 
scheme, the switch must close the old account. Mr S completed this part of the Refer a 
Friend form on 2 October 2019.
Mr S asked Nationwide to complete the account switch using their Current Account Switch 
team. It appears that Mr S selected a partial switch leaving his old account open rather than 
a full switch which resulted in him not qualifying for the incentive. 
Mr S refers to an email he received from Nationwide that told him to sit back and relax 
following the switch process. Based on the information provided to me by Nationwide I can 
see that the email then goes on to state we just need to check that both you and the friend 
that recommended you meet the terms and conditions of the offer. If you do your £100 will 
be in your account within the next 30 days. Well send you an email confirmation when your 
payment is being made The wording of this email does not suggest that Mr S automatically 
qualified for the incentive. 
Taking all of the above into account I do not believe that it is fair or reasonable to ask 
Nationwide to pay Mr S £100 for switching his account. There are conditions that must be 
met to qualify for the incentive and Mr S did not meet them.
I do believe that Nationwide could have contacted Mr S to advise that he did not qualify for 
the scheme following on from the sit back and relax email. Nationwide have offered Mr S 
£50 to reflect the inconvenience. I believe that this offer is fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that this outcome might be disappointing for Mr S but I hope that my explanation 
helps him to understand why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman