DRN-2665568
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that a business insurance policy was mis-sold by James
and Lindsay Ltd (J&L) as cover which should have been included wasnt.
What happened
R had a business insurance policy arranged by J&L. R wanted to make a claim on the policy
after a piece of hired in plant was stolen. It was told there was no cover on its policy for hired
in plant.
R made a complaint to J&L. It said that it should have been clear to J&L that the nature of its
business was that it hired plant. So J&L should have arranged insurance which included this.
J&L rejected the complaint. It said the policy terms and conditions and documents sent to R
before the policy was renewed stated what was and wasnt covered by the policy, and so R
could have noted that hired in plant wasnt included in the policy cover, and appropriate
arrangements could have been made to extend it.
R brought the complaint to our service, and our investigator thought that it should be upheld.
She said that it should have been apparent to J&L that R needed plant cover due to the
nature of its work and that it was J&Ls duty to ensure that the policy it arranged provided
appropriate cover.
J&L didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
It isnt disputed that the original policy arranged by J&L didnt include cover for hired in plant.
R hasnt said it asked for this cover to be added either originally, or at renewal, but J&L failed
to do this. Its argument is that J&Ls knowledge of the nature of its business was such that it
was inappropriate for J&L to arrange a policy without this cover. Similarly, it also appears to
be accepted that the nature of Rs business was such that it made regular use of hired in
plant.
Insurance intermediaries such as J&L have a duty to ensure that the insurance policy it
proposes is suitable for a customers needs. So what I need to do is assess whether the
insurance arranged for R was suitable for its needs, and whether J&L took steps to highlight
any gaps in the coverage being provided.
My primary concern here is looking at the policy which was in effect at the time when the
plant theft occurred. This was a renewal of a policy originally taken out the year before.
There are relevant points about the original contract which Ill address briefly. A demands
and needs statement was produced by J&L following a telephone conversation with Rs
representative. In this theres no mention that R is likely to, or requires, cover for hired in
plant. During this period of insurance, R had reason to make a claim for damage caused by
hired in plant, and although additional cover was added to the policy following this incident, it
plant cover wasnt added.
Its Rs position that, before the policy was taken out, it should have been apparent to J&L
that the nature of its work meant that plant cover was required. Theres no recording
available of the telephone call (J&L dont record their calls), but the demands and needs
statement produced after this didnt include plant cover. Its accepted that R received this,
and I think it would have been reasonable for it to review this, along with the details of the
cover being offered. If it considered that important aspects of its work, such as the use of
hired in plant, werent covered then it could have raised this with J&L so that appropriate
additional cover could be arranged. R didnt challenge the extent of the cover before
purchasing the policy, and so I think that its more likely than not that J&L produced a
statement of demands and needs, and arranged insurance, in accordance with what R had
requested.
I can see that when the policy was due for renewal, a new statement of demands and needs
was sent to R. From this, it seems to me that Rs primary requirement from the insurance
was to cover its liabilities to members of the public and its own staff, rather than protecting
items owned or rented by the business. I can see that this statement was sent to R several
weeks before the renewal was due, and I think that it was reasonable to expect that R would
review the information that was provided and assess whether the cover provided was
suitable for all of its needs. Ive seen nothing to suggest that R contacted J&L to say that the
cover being provided was inadequate as plant cover wasnt included.
Theres another element which I think means J&L acted reasonably here. About two weeks
before the full schedule of demands and needs was sent to R, J&L sent an email to a
representative of R, and observed in this the policy does not include any cover for hired in /
own plant  would you like to add a figure for this section?
I think this is important evidence in favour of the suggestion that J&L was, by the time of the
renewal, aware of Rs needs and was highlighting the need for relevant cover to be obtained.
It doesnt seem in dispute that following this email, R didnt ask for plant cover to be added to
the policy. I think this differs from the original policy because there had been an incident
involving hired in plant within the first period of insurance, so by then J&L was aware that R
may require this cover.
R argues that the email contained a lot of points, and that as a result, its representative
contacted J&L by phone. I cant agree that the content of the email contained too much
information for the importance of the plant cover to have been missed. From looking at the
email, it seems to me that the questions asked of R were limited to whether it wanted to add
the plant cover, and whether it wanted to extend what was covered for theft of tools.
It doesnt seem to be disputed that plant cover, and the suggestion that this be added,
wasnt discussed during this telephone call. As it was R which was contacting J&L following
the email, I think its fair to say that it was for R to raise any questions it had about the policy
cover and its needs. J&L had asked a question about the level of cover being requested, and
so it was reasonable for it to respond to queries made by R in response to that without
needing to repeat the points it had made in the email.
Im satisfied that, before the renewal of the policy, J&L asked R whether it wanted to have
plant cover added to the policy, and provided information to R which indicated that plant
cover wasnt included. I cant say it didnt act reasonably in arranging the policy cover it did. I
think it proposed cover which was suitable for the expressed needs of R, and had
highlighted an element of additional cover which R may have required. I cant hold it
responsible for Rs failure to take up the offer to look into this additional cover.The responses to my provisional decision
R responded to my provisional decision. It disagreed with the proposed outcome. In 
summary, they argued that J&L should have been aware it needed cover for hired in plant 
due to the nature of its business. It said if it had been aware that this possible cover existed, 
it would have taken it out.
R said it took out, and renewed the policy, based on J&Ls recommendation to do so. It said 
J&L hadnt explained any of the details of the cover available for hired in plant when it asked 
whether R wanted to add this. It argued that J&L should have highlighted this cover again, 
and given more details about it, in the telephone conversation, or in writing before the policy 
was renewed.  
J&L had no further comment to make after receiving the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the points made by R in response to my provisional decision, 
but Im not minded to change my decision. Ill explain why.
I understand Rs position that, if it had been made aware that insurance cover for hired in 
plant was available, it would have taken this given the nature of its business. But its also 
apparent that J&L did make R aware that such cover existed, at the time the policy was 
coming up for renewal. And R didnt enquire about this cover, or ask for details of it. 
I also cant agree that, having made R aware that cover for hired-in plant was available prior 
to the renewal being due, J&L should have continued to reference this in further 
correspondence with R up to the point of renewal. J&L asked R if it wanted to add this cover, 
and R didnt respond to this. I think it was reasonable for it to assume that R didnt want this 
cover to be added and so had no reason to pursue this further.
R also says that J&L should have made it aware of details of the cover for hired in plant 
being offered. But it seems to me that the email in which J&L asked whether R wanted cover 
for hired in plant to be added was an invitation to discuss this, at which point J&L could look 
into options for cover and provide further details. When this query wasnt addressed by R, I 
cant say that J&L should have provided details of the cover available. 
R also points to J&Ls terms and conditions which say, in part that, it will make a 
recommendation for you after we have assessed your needs. The policies taken out by R 
were based on a recommendation from J&L. So R says that, after making an assessment of 
its needs, at the very least by the time of renewal it should have been recommending that 
hired in plant cover was included. 
But it seems to me that, at the time of renewal, the recommendation was made after the 
query around adding hired in plant cover had been made by J&L. So it follows that the 
recommendation would have been based on what had been discussed, or not discussed, to 
that point. And as Ive said, I think it was fair for J&L to assume that R didnt want this 
additional cover. And so it made a recommendation based on what it understood to be Rs 
requirements, and considered that the policy offered met this. 
R also says that the policy schedules issued when hired in plant cover had been added 
detailed this, but that the fact it hadnt been included wasnt mentioned on previous schedules. So it argues that J&Ls query about adding a figure for this was ambiguous. I 
agree that the query was ambiguous. But it seems to me that, in the absence of knowing 
what R might have wanted in respect of that cover, or indeed if it wanted that cover at all, 
such a statement was always likely to be ambiguous.
In conclusion, Im satisfied J&L did make a query of R whether it wanted to add this cover. R 
didnt respond to this. Im not persuaded that anything Ive seen placed a further obligation 
on J&L to continue to pursue this point. Id make one final point here, which is that R says it 
has very limited experience of dealing with insurance policies. I understand this. But when 
J&L mentioned potentially adding hired in plant cover, I think this should have been sufficient 
indication to R to discuss this further with J&L, knowing what it did about its use of hired in 
plant. 
So for these reasons, Im unable to agree that J&Ls actions were unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman