DRN-3621296
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do enough to protect him when he 
fell victim to a scam and hasnt reimbursed him the funds he lost. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not been disputed that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in 
dispute that Mr S authorised payments from his HSBC debit card to purchase 
cryptocurrency (which was subsequently transferred on to the scammer), albeit not 
realising he was being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017  is that hes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect HSBC to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold HSBC liable.
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this in part because the 
payments made from Mr Ss HSBC account went to what appear to have been 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges. So, I wouldnt have expected the payments to 
trigger HSBCs fraud alert systems on the basis of the merchants alone. There was a 
warning issued by the Financial Conduct Authority about one of the firms the funds 
were ultimately sent to. But HSBC wouldnt have been aware of the involvement of 
this company, as it wouldnt have had any indication this is where any of the 
payments were going to. 
Ive then thought about the amounts paid and the frequency of these payments. I 
appreciate that, overall, Mr S has lost over £8,000, which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. There appear to have been nine payments from mid-November to early 
January. The largest single transaction was for £2,000 which I dont consider to have 
been high enough to have flagged with HSBC. 
I recognise there were multiple smaller transactions made in one day  to two 
different merchants  which totalled almost £4,000. But, while not a low amount, this 
also isnt a sum Id consider to be significantly unusual or out of character, especially 
when compared with previous spending. Mr S had made multiple card transactions in 
one day before, sometimes for amounts far exceeding these disputed payments. 
I acknowledge that many of these previous payments were made to his own 
accounts. And I also acknowledge that it was rare for Mr S to make international 
payments. But that brings me back to the overall payment amounts made on any 
single day. And I dont consider that any of these ought to have been regarded as 
suspicious, or that they were indicative Mr S might have been at risk of falling victim 
to a scam. I also dont consider that making international payments is unusual 
enough to flag with HSBC, especially given the amounts involved. 
So, having considered the payments Mr S made to cryptocurrency exchanges, Im 
not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs 
fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of 
being scammed. As a result, I wouldnt have expected it to have intervened. 
In these circumstances, Mr S used his debit card to pay a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, a 
chargeback would have been unlikely to succeed as the service  i.e. the purchase 
of cryptocurrency  would be considered as having been provided. Therefore, I dont 
think HSBC acted unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback claim. 
While Im sorry that Mr S has been the victim of a scam, and I appreciate the impact this is 
likely to have had on him, I dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC liable in this case. So, I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman