DRN-3235888
The complaint
Ms S complains that a delay in transferring cash from her existing ISA provider to Vanguard 
Asset Management, Ltd resulted in a loss when she was eventually able to invest the cash.
What happened
Vanguard accepts it was responsible for delaying the transfer, so I wont go into detail 
concerning the circumstances of how it occurred. In short, the transfer completed on 11 
October 2021 but wouldve done so several months earlier, on 12 July 2021, but for the 
delay. 
Vanguard offered Ms S £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay, but it didnt 
agree to her claim for investment loss. It noted that she had chosen not to place a pending 
investment order at the time she requested the transfer. So, Vanguard felt it couldnt 
determine what Ms S wouldve done if the transfer had completed in July 2021.
Ms S didnt accept this and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the matter and reached a different conclusion to that reached by 
Vanguard. He noted that Ms S had invested the entire amount transferred (£220,000) into 
Vanguards FTSE Global All Cap Index Fund in three transactions during the week following 
the eventual completion of the transfer  the vast majority of the investment (£205,000) 
being the first transaction on the day the transfer completed. 
The investigator felt doing so demonstrated that investment in that fund had always been 
Ms S intention. So, it would be reasonable for Vanguard to put her in the position shed be in 
if shed been able to carry out the investment transactions in July 2021, by it applying 
additional units to her account, as well as paying her the £250 for the trouble caused. 
Vanguard didnt agree. It maintained that as Ms S had given no investment instruction at the 
point of requesting the transfer it wasnt reasonable to compensate her. It felt that doing so 
would be unfair on other customers in a similar position who had given a pre-transfer 
instruction. Vanguard said such customers would be compensated by default in the event of 
a delay, because of their clear intention. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
As noted, Vanguard has accepted responsibility for the delay, so it remains only for me to 
decide what represents fair compensation. Ms S feels she has incurred an investment loss, 
as the transfer delay prevented her from investing sooner. Vanguard considers it isnt 
possible to determine any investment loss as theres insufficient evidence to support what 
Ms S wouldve done had the transfer completed in a reasonable timeframe, in July 2021.
Vanguards position is based upon the fact that there was an opportunity for Ms S to indicate 
her investment intention for the cash at the point of requesting the transfer. Because she 
chose not to take that opportunity, it cant now be determined with any certainty what her 
intentions for the cash were.  
I accept that if Ms S had given an investment instruction with the transfer it would be a 
straightforward matter to conclude what her position would be but for the delay. But I dont 
think that her decision not to give an instruction means its impossible to make a finding 
about what she was intending to do. 
An instruction given at the time of the transfer would clearly have been evidence of her 
intentions. But I can quite understand why Ms S didnt give such an instruction  a natural 
concern that she would be committing to a very significant investment without a clear picture 
of when that investment would take place. And I note that at the point in the transfer 
application where account holders are asked if theyd like to choose their new investments 
its made very clear that it is no problem if they dont want to and that they will be able to do 
so once the cash is transferred. Theres certainly no indication that it might be of benefit to 
give an instruction, so they will be compensated in the event of a delay.
Ms S actions following the delay in her transfer (especially in the context of already being 
invested in the FTSE Global All Cap Index Fund) are also important evidence to be 
considered. And in the specific circumstances of the complaint I think those actions support, 
on the balance of probabilities, a finding that if thered been no delay Ms S wouldve invested 
in July 2021 in broadly the same way she did in October 2021. There may have been some 
slight difference  for instance, she may not have invested in three transactions. But I think 
for the purposes of determining investment loss its reasonable to assume the investment 
wouldve taken place in the same way.
Vanguard has said that compensating Ms S for investment loss when she didnt give a pre-
transfer instruction would be unfair to customers in similar circumstances who had given an 
instruction in advance. But I dont agree. As Ive said, I think its entirely fair and reasonable 
to consider other evidence and the wider circumstances when deciding whether an 
investment loss should be compensated. 
Putting things right
Vanguard should put Ms S in the position shed be in if shed invested £205,000 into the 
Vanguard FTSE Global All Cap Index Fund on 12 July 2021, £10,000 on 15 July 2021, and 
£5,000 on 20 July 2021. 
So, I direct Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd to:
Calculate the number of units Ms S wouldve received if shed invested on the above 
dates and compare this with the number of units she actually received when she 
invested in October 2021. If the number of units she wouldve received is greater 
Vanguard should apply the additional units to her account.
Vanguard should also, if its not done so already, pay Ms S the £250 it offered for the 
trouble caused, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Vanguard 
Asset Management, Ltd to pay compensation to Ms S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman