DRN-3050647
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and applied a fraud 
marker.
What happened
What Mr D says
Mr D says that in 2015 he worked part-time as a car hire broker. He put third parties in touch 
with hire companies, completed the necessary administration and charged a commission. Mr 
D says he notified Santander that he would be overdrawn for approximately 14 days until he 
received monies owed to his business which would cover the overdraft, but Santander 
closed the account and applied a Cifas marker. He also says that he offered a repayment 
plan of £5,000 a month not to have the default and marker but Santander said it would only 
remove the marker if he paid the entire outstanding balance in one payment  which he was 
unable to do as he had no banking facilities.
Mr D says he didnt raise a complaint with this service at the time as he was still 
communicating with Santander. He would now like the Cifas marker and credit file entries to 
be removed and compensation as the marker has had a substantial effect on his home and 
work life. As a result of the Cifas marker Santander applied another account Mr D held with a 
different bank was also closed and he was unable to open a new account. 
What Santander say
Santander says Mr D opened the account on 23 February 2015. Its fraud team was alerted 
to Mr Ds account activity on 12 March 2015 when Mr Ds account became overdrawn by 
over £11,000 when he had no overdraft facility. Mr D told Santander he rented a vehicle that 
was returned damaged and so the hire company had taken pre-authorised payments. After 
this there were further debits from the account to hire car companies which meant it became 
£49,524.99 overdrawn. Santander completed a fraud investigation and decided to close Mr 
Ds account and load a misuse of facility Cifas marker (on 2 September 2015). 
Santander say it closed Mr Ds account and loaded the marker because it appears Mr D 
opened the account purely to facilitate transactions he knew he didnt have the funds to 
cover  meaning he was using the account as a form of loan. Santander has been unable to 
recover funds through chargeback as it appears the charges are genuine and are for pre-
authorised vehicle damage. There were multiple high value payments to car hire companies, 
some of which were processed after Santander spoke to Mr D about the first two 
transactions that took him overdrawn. Santander say Mr D knowingly carried out credit 
abuse on his account in order to gain funds to which he wasnt entitled. 
At the time the account was closed and moved to collections in September 2015 the account 
was overdrawn by nearly £50,000 and Mr D hadnt reduced the balance at all or provided 
any evidence he had the funds to repay. This was in spite of consistently saying he was 
expecting to receive funds to repay the debt. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ds case didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
Santander acted reasonably and in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed 
Mr Ds account and also acted reasonably in applying a fraud marker. This was because the 
available evidence led her to believe Mr D opened a new account with Santander and made 
payments knowing he didnt have the funds to cover them. He used his Santander account 
as a form of loan for his business. The loan hasnt been repaid and Mr D hasnt provided any 
evidence to this service or to Santander of his ability to repay it. The investigator also 
questioned the legitimacy of Mr Ds business.  
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, he said:
- There is no evidence of the agreed overdraft because in spite of numerous requests 
Santander has only provided him with calls from 2018. Santander says it hasnt 
retained calls from 2015 but the law requires it to. The investigator failed to mention 
Santanders failure to provide this evidence.
- He tried to repay the overdraft by paying £5,000 a month but Santander refused. This 
breaches Financial Conduct regulations. 
- In respect of the investigators comments about his business, Mr D said that legally a 
personal bank account can be used by a sole trader. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr Ds overdraft authorised?
To decide this complaint the first thing I need to consider is whether Mr D arranged an 
authorised overdraft. He says that he contacted Santander prior to the first payments going 
through and said he was due to receive £55,000 from a private client which would cover the 
overdraft and Santander was fine with this. Santander says it has no record of this call. Mr D 
has asked for call recordings, but Santander hasnt retained them. But Ive been able to 
consider detailed internal records that Santander has provided which document all 
communication with Mr D. 
Ive carefully considered these records and cant find any reference to a call from Mr D in 
which Santander authorise an overdraft on Mr Ds account. I also consider that if Mr D had 
reached such an agreement with Santander, hed have discussed it when Santander first 
contacted him to discuss the first two transactions that took him overdrawn by over £11,000. 
But this wasnt the case. The notes of the call on 12 March 2015 say that Mr D explained he 
had arranged with the car hire company for the payment to go out and was expecting a 
credit in to the account of £14,000 but this had been delayed until 14 March 2015. 
The first time Mr D mentioned to Santander that he called in advance of the transactions was 
on 18 November 2016, over 18 months after Santander first communicated with him about 
the overdraft. At that stage Mr D said hed alerted Santander to the fact he would be making 
multiple payments on his card up to the value of around £61,000 for his business. Mr D said 
in the 2016 call that Santander agreed to an overdraft for 14 days as he was expecting to 
receive a payment of approximately £79,000. The Santander adviser recorded that he/she 
couldnt find any evidence of an agreed overdraft. 
On balance Im not persuaded Santander agreed to an authorised overdraft because there is 
no evidence of it and because I consider if an overdraft had been agreed Mr D would have 
raised it as soon as Santander asked him questions about his balance. And whilst I note Mr 
Ds comments about the retention of calls, Im not persuaded Santander has a legal duty to 
retain calls for six years as Mr D suggests. I also cant require Santander to provide 
evidence it doesnt have.  
Cifas markerThe marker that Santander filed with Cifas is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to obtaining an account with the deliberate intention of using it for 
fraudulent purposes. This specifically relates to the allegation that there was runaway 
spending on Mr Ds account, after he was put on notice by Santander that he was utilising 
funds he wasnt entitled to. In order to file such a marker, Santander isnt required to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that Mr D is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but it must show 
that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. Cifas says:
-There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or 
financial crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
-The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So, I need to consider whether Santander has sufficient evidence to meet the standard of 
proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with Cifas. Having looked at all the information 
provided, Im satisfied it has and will explain why.
Santander first discussed Mr Ds unauthorised overdraft with him in March 2015 when he 
was around £11,000 overdrawn. After this, payments continued to leave Mr Ds account 
until 7 July 2015, by which time Mr D was just over £70,000 overdrawn. Some refunds from 
a car hire company were then credited to Mr Ds account in August 2015 amounting to 
around £20,000. So after Santander discussed the use of his account with him Mr Ds 
overdraft continued to increase. 
Ive set out above why I think Mr D didnt have an authorised overdraft facility. This means 
that Mr D opened an account, credited it with £250 and then allowed the account to go in to 
unauthorised overdraft by nearly £50,000. He has never provided any evidence of his ability 
to clear the unauthorised overdraft. And although Mr D has referred to how he will clear the 
debt numerous times he hasnt credited the account after the initial £250 when the account 
was opened. I have set out below what Mr D has told Santander about when he would 
repay funds.
- 12 March 2015 - Mr D said a credit of £14,000 had been delayed until 14 March 
2015.
- 23 March 2015  Mr D advised he was waiting for payment from a sponsor that 
would clear the arrears and he was also waiting for compensation following an 
accident. 
- 1 April 2015  Mr D said he was expecting a credit of around £60,000 in to the 
account between 9 and 16 April 2015.
- 30 April 2015  Mr D said he was due a payment hed not received so he would pay 
£1,000 from his wages and then the balance in June. 
- 20 May 2015  Mr D advised he was unable to make the payment that month but 
would pay £275 that week and would clear the arrears by 6 July when he received 
a compensation payment.
- 2 July 2015  Mr D advised he was waiting for compensation of around £144,000.
- 8 July 2015  Mr D advised he was still waiting for compensation of around 
£130,000, but it could be more. 
- 18 August 2015  Mr D advised the entire balance would be paid by the end of 
August as he was due £135,000 from his insurer.  So Im not persuaded that at the time the transactions that took Mr D in to unauthorised 
overdraft were made he had the funds to bring his account in to credit. Santander then 
allowed Mr D over five months to make payment before it closed his account and loaded 
the Cifas marker in September 2015. During this time, and since, Mr D hasnt made any 
payments to clear the overdraft. 
Mr D has said he was unable to credit his Santander account because when Santander 
closed his account, he didnt have any banking facilities to allow him to make payment. But 
I consider Mr D had sufficient opportunity to credit the account before Santander closed it 
and applied the marker. Im also aware that Mr D says he no longer has evidence of his 
ability to re-pay the debt to Santander because his business is no longer active, so 
everything has been destroyed. For the same reason, Mr D has no evidence of the nature 
of his business venture. But Mr D communicated with Santander from 2015 through to 
bringing this complaint to our service so had the opportunity while his business was active 
to demonstrate that he had funds to credit the account with.
Mr D has also said he was told in the initial stages of the investigation that if he repaid the 
overdraft the Cifas marker would be removed. And he said he offered to repay £5,000 a 
month as long as the Cifas loading was removed. I can see no evidence of either of these 
claims. The first time I can see Mr D mentioned them was in a call with Santander on 23 
August 2019, by which stage Santander had already dealt with a complaint about the Cifas 
loading. The adviser who spoke to Mr D on 23 August 2019 also noted there was no 
evidence to support these claims. Santanders records show that Mr D was advised to 
discuss a repayment plan with its collections department. 
Overall, Im satisfied Santander acted reasonably in applying a loading to Cifas for misuse of 
the account. 
Account closure
Santanders terms and conditions allow it to close an account with immediate effect in 
certain circumstances, including when it believes the account has been used fraudulently. In 
light of what I have said so far about the Cifas loading, it follows that I consider Santander 
acted reasonably, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, in 
closing the account.
Im sorry to hear about how Mr Ds life has been significantly impacted by the closure of his 
account and the Cifas loading but I consider Santander acted reasonably and so Im not 
awarding any compensation to Mr D. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have discussed I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman