DRN-3518263
The complaint
Miss N complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) will not
backdate a default they registered with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA).
What happened
Miss N had a credit card with Virgin. She got into financial difficulties and was unable to
make her contractual monthly payments to her credit card, so she says she stopped paying
towards the card. Miss N then contacted a debt management charity and she made
payments to the account of £73.90 a month.
As the arrears continued to accrue on the account, Virgin sent Miss N a notice of default on
17 July 2017, which explained that if they did not receive a payment of £759.82 by 14
August 2017, then they would report a default on her credit file. The account defaulted on 16
August 2017.
Miss N made a complaint to Virgin, who did not uphold her complaint. They said that as she
was making payments to her account, the amount of arrears showing took longer to accrue.
They told Miss N that they had reported to the CRAs that the date of the default should be
recorded on her credit file as 16 August 2017.
Miss N replied to Virgin, challenging the date they recorded the default on her credit file.
Virgin apologised that the date of the default was showing as 31 October 2017. They said
they had sent the CRAs the necessary amendment forms and the default would be
backdated to have this rectified. They also sent Miss N a £75 cheque to apologise for the
error.
Miss N brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint.
She said that Virgin had amended her credit file to show the debt defaulted in September
2017. She said she didnt find it unreasonable that Virgin didnt wish to backdate the default
as they acted fairly and reasonably in following the arrears process when applying the
default, as Virgin applied the default at seven full cycles in arrears, or 180 days  as per
industry practice.
Miss N asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points, but
in summary, she said there was an option for Virgin to have been reasonable and fair. Miss
N said that while they may have been within guidelines, considering the fact she has now
paid everything in full, a shred of goodwill towards her could have been considered. She said
she was in financial difficulty due to catastrophic personal events which she hadnt
disclosed. Miss N added that other financial companies had agreed to backdate the adverse
credit information for her, but Virgin were the only company who wouldnt.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. For ease
of reading Ill detail my decision in two parts  registering the default itself and not
backdating it to when Miss N originally stopped making her repayments and the actual date
the default was registered.
Registering the default and not backdating it to when Miss N originally stopped making
Repayments
Ive considered whether Virgin were fair to register a default with the CRAs when they did do
this and whether it was fair the date this default should be registered as 16 August 2017, as
opposed to backdating it earlier, when Miss N originally stopped making payments to the
account. There is further information about the specific date Virgin registered the date of the
default in the section below, so I wont comment too much on this date here, but this is when
Virgin terminated the account and said they registered this date as the default date with the
CRAs.
In order to uphold this part of the complaint. I would need to see that Virgin should not have
registered a default around this time. I cant consider what other companies have or havent
done in registering or backdating a complaint here, as this complaint is about Virgins
actions. So I can only consider whether they treated Miss N reasonably.
I also cant uphold this part of the complaint based on goodwill alone  even if Miss N has
fully repaid the outstanding balance now. I cant ask Virgin to backdate a default to an earlier
point than they should have done if they had followed their process and acted in line with
what they should have done here. As an impartial body, we do not act in favour of one party
over another, but we do need to see that the business has treated Miss N fairly and
reasonably with their actions. Although Miss N will be disappointed, Im satisfied that Virgin
did nothing wrong by registering a default on her credit file when they did (apart from the
date itself, which Ill expand on more in the following section) and Ill explain why.
As our investigator has already explained, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says
they would expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind
with their payments, so by the point where they reach month seven. Generally speaking,
were likely to take a similar view as the ICO whilst considering what was fair in the individual
circumstances of the complaint.
Ive looked at Virgins process for applying a default. As our investigator has already shared
with Miss N, the process shows that accounts will automatically contractually charge off at
cycle point when 180 days past due, subject to being sent the appropriate notice of default
with the appropriate notice period. For accounts that are defaulted, a letter of termination
confirming the account is in default will be sent automatically at point of charge off which will
coincide with the point the account defaults in compliance with the Consumer Credit Act.
Virgin have explained that as Miss N was making some payments to her account during this
period, the arrears would continue to accrue on the account. They say the more a customer
is able to afford against the required minimum payment, the longer the account takes to
default. Im satisfied that this is fair. I say this because if Virgin were to apply a default as
soon as a customer showed signs of suffering financial difficulties, then these customers
would be negatively impacted by having defaults applied unnecessarily if they were able to
clear their arrears within a suitable timeframe.
Im persuaded that Virgin were fair to Miss N by applying breathing space to the account forher, to give her a chance to get back on her feet without the pressures of having to make her
contractual payments at what was clearly a difficult time for her. But they also had to balance
this with their regulatory duties of sending her a notice of default when she was in arrears for
a prolonged period of time and giving her 28 days to pay the arrears or else they would need
to register a default to her credit file. And this is what they did here.
Virgin are not required to backdate a default to when somebody first showed financial
difficulties. And therefore they have made no error by sending her a termination notice on 16
August 2017. Im sorry to disappoint Miss N, but Im unable to ask them to backdate the
default to an earlier date, despite what other companies have done as a gesture of goodwill.
Date the default has been registered
During my investigation, I noticed that Virgin had referred to the default being backdated
from October 2017 to September 2017. But the termination notice which Virgin sent to Miss
Ns registered address at the time was dated 16 August 2017. As this is the date that Virgin
terminated the account and they said they notified the CRAs of the default of 16 August
2017 (which) should be recorded on (her) credit report, then I was concerned that Virgin
had still registered an incorrect date of when the account should have been registered as
defaulted with the CRAs.
So I asked Virgin to look into this. They agreed that the account defaulted on 16 August
2017, but they couldnt explain why they amended Miss Ns credit file to September 2017
from October 2017. Virgin said they had sent a request to have the default date recorded as
16 August 2017 and asked for this to be actioned as a matter of urgency.
While I appreciate Virgin being proactive to rectify this issue when Ive brought it to their
attention, I think they should recognise the impact that this will have on Miss N. She has
highlighted to them previously that the default date was incorrect and she was assured that
this was rectified in July 2021, when Virgin sent an amendment to the CRAs. But they still
did not backdate the date of the default to 16 August 2017.
Given what Miss N has said about the impact the date of the default has had on her, Im
persuaded that this will likely cause Miss N further distress as Virgin had not followed their
own process to register the date of the default accurately. This isnt to say that they shouldnt
have recorded a default on her credit file, just that they recorded the incorrect date of the
default  and this was to Miss Ns detriment.
So Im persuaded that Virgin should pay Miss N further compensation as a result of this.
When this last happened, Virgin paid Miss N £75. But here, Im persuaded that an extra
£100 should be paid to Miss N for this error and Ill explain why I think this amount is fair and
reasonable.
I say this as Virgin should have recorded the correct default date originally. But they
registered it for 31 October 2017, as Miss Ns credit file showed, which she provided us.
Then, their response to Miss N in July 2021, states the necessary forms would be sent to the
CRAs to amend her credit file. And while Virgin did indeed send the amendment, they
displayed the wrong date again. So I think with this happening a second time, this would
have a bigger impact on Miss N than when this happened the first time. So it follows, I intend
to ask Virgin to put things right by paying Miss N an extra £100 for distress and to ensure
they backdate the date of the default to 16 August 2017.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Miss N said she had no further information for me to consider. Virgin accepted the 
provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Virgin to pay Miss N an extra £100 
compensation for distress and to ensure the date of the default is backdated to 16 August 
2017. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Miss 
N an extra £100 compensation for distress and to ensure the date of the default is backdated 
to 16 August 2017.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman