DRN-3494114
Complaint
Mrs B has complained that Sainsbury's Bank Plc rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs B bought solar panels for her home in 2012. The purchase was funded in part by a 
credit card with Sainsburys, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation. Mrs B funded the remaining part of her 
purchase using a loan from a third-party provider  but her complaint is against Sainsburys. 
In this case, Mrs B says the installer led her into believing that the panels (including the 
finance charges) would cost her no more than £60 a month due to the income and savings 
she would receive from the solar panel system. However, the total benefit shes received has 
been less than estimated which has meant that Mrs B has had to contribute more than £60 a 
month towards her monthly repayments. 
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs B, and that fair redress would be for Mrs B to be 
charged no more for the solar panels than the benefit she has received over an 8-year 
period plus a monthly payment of £60 during the term of the 8-year loan. The redress should 
be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions where needed. 
Sainsburys didnt agree. It felt that there was no documentary evidence of the 
misrepresentation thats Mrs B has alleged. It added that Mrs B couldnt remember exactly 
what she was told during the sale which is confirmed by her requesting copies of the sales 
quote from the installer a year after the sale. It didnt agree that the complaint could be 
upheld based solely on Mrs Bs testimony. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand that there is limited documentary evidence available in this case. But Ms R has 
said she was not left a quote or the readings the sales representative set out during the 
sales meeting. Shes also requested a copy of the quote from the installer a year after the 
sale, but it did not provide her with a copy. Consumers cannot provide evidence that they do 
not have. But where there is limited information about a sale, I have to make a decision 
based on the available evidence and that includes Mrs Bs testimony.  
Mrs B has repeatedly explained she was assured that shed have to contribute no more than 
£60 towards the cost of these solar panels. Her testimony has been consistent and clear 
throughout. I dont think Mrs B seeking a copy of the quote is evidence that she doesnt 
remember the representation that induced her into the contract. Its not unusual for 
consumers to seeks copies of sales documents and check annual generation figures, or 20 
years estimates post sale, and we dont expect consumers to remember the exact figures 
and breakdowns discussed and given during a detailed and lengthy sales meeting. 
However, I dont think its unusual that Mrs B remembers the figure that she was prepared to 
or financially able to contribute towards the cost of the system  I think thats likely to have 
been of paramount importance and easily remembered. And as Ive said above, Mrs Bs 
testimony that the installer made the misrepresentation that the financial returns from the 
system would result in no more than a monthly contribution of £60 from her being needed, 
has been consistent and clear throughout this complaint. 
I would add that Ive thought about Sainsburys comments regarding Mrs B being concerned 
with sustainability and accepting shed researched the technical aspects of solar power 
generation. However, shes also explained that shed done no research into how that 
translated into financial returns and was reliant on the installer to set out the costs and 
benefits for her. So, given that the gap in her knowledge was about costings, I think its more 
likely shed remember the figure she was told she might have to pay towards this system. 
Overall, I think her testimony is reliable evidence of what she was likely told during the sale. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels could equate to an additional cost for her above the £60 a 
month she was prepared to pay.
So, I think that Sainsburys didnt treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what 
Sainsburys did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Sainsburys needs to do to put things right for Mrs B
Having thought about everything,  as set out by our investigator, I think that it would be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint for Sainsburys to put things 
right by recalculating the original cost of the system (including any finance charges) based 
on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs B from the solar panels over an 8-
year period, plus a monthly payment of £60 during the loan term, so she pays no more than 
that, and she keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits now that the loan has 
ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs B has paid more than she should have, then 
Sainsburys needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, Sainsburys should recalculate the cost of Mrs Bs 
solar panel system, to put Mrs B in a position now where the solar panel system costs 
Mrs B, only £60 a month plus the income and saving shes received over the 8 year loan 
term. Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
This means Sainsburys should:
1. Allow Mrs B to keep the system;
2. Calculate the actual and predicted benefits of the system over the 96-month loan 
term. Where possible Mrs Bs electricity bills and FIT statements should be used to 
do this;
3. Calculate the benefits that Mrs B was told she would receive from the system over 
the same period;
4. Subtract figure 2. from figure 3. and pay Mrs B the difference;
5. Add 8% simple interest a year to each overpayment shes made on her loan with a 
third-party provider, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
Sainsburys should deduct tax from this and provide Mrs B with a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim a refund, if appropriate.
Mrs B should send all relevant information to Sainsburys to allow it to calculate the
figures as accurately as possible.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs B first 
contacted Sainsburys that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Sainsburys should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Sainsbury's Bank Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman