DRN-1833045
 
The complaint
Mr L says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover his store card repayments.
What happened
Mr L took out a store card and three years later in 2000 he was sold a PPI policy over the 
phone to cover his card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Mr Ls 
store card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance 
on the store card if Mr L was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. The 
benefit would continue to be paid until Mr L returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld because he thought the policy 
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr L.
Mr L disagrees. He says he would never knowingly take out such a policy.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
The sale took place 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information available 
from the time of sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information I have and 
what I think is most likely to have happened.
AXA had to make it clear to Mr L that he had a choice in taking the policy. The policy was 
sold over the phone. From what we know of AXAs sales process and call scripts I think its 
likely that the sales adviser wouldve explained to Mr L he had a choice in taking the policy. 
And because the policy was sold years after the store card was taken out I think its likely Mr 
L wouldve known he had a choice in taking it and the policy was taken because he chose to 
take it rather than anything else.
I dont think AXA advised Mr L to buy the policy. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr L, they just gave him information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
I cant say whether AXA gave all the information as they shouldve. That being said even if 
AXA did give all the information Mr L needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Mr L was eligible for the PPI.
 
Although Mr L says he was self-employed this doesnt mean it wouldve been any 
harder to claim on the policy then an employed person. And it doesnt look like he 
wouldve been caught by any of the other main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr L says he may have had some sick pay and savings he 
could to help with the repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out 
on top of this and for potentially longer. So I think the policy wouldve provided a 
useful benefit for Mr L in his circumstances. 
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr L and if he no longer 
wanted the policy he was able to cancel it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr L on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it suited his needs and was of 
value to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman