DRN-3470920
The complaint
Mr O complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In September 2015, Mr O acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement 
from Moneybarn. Mr O paid a deposit of £400 and was required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £298. The total repayable under the agreement was £17,976.
Mr O says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen he was in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) at the time and that 
the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included receiving consent from Mr Os IVA practitioner 
regarding the agreement term and monthly payments. It said it received copies of Mr Os 
payslips which showed an average monthly income of around £2,500 and that Mr O met its 
lending criteria.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr O.
Moneybarn didnt respond to our investigators view.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, I thought Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr O about his monthly income and based on this 
information an average monthly income figure of around £2,500 was reasonable.
Moneybarn didnt ask Mr O about his expenditure. I thought this was particularly 
important given Mr O was in an IVA and so had previously experienced financial 
difficulties. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks.
I thought it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have verified Mr Os 
credit commitments and found out more about his committed expenditure, such as 
his living costs. I couldnt be sure exactly what Moneybarn would have found out if it 
had asked. In the absence of anything else, I thought it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Mr Os bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed.
Mr Os bank showed he paid an average of £1,400 for payday loans in the two 
months leading up to the agreement. He had taken out two new payday loans the 
month before the agreement suggesting that his reliance on this type of funding 
wasnt reducing. Additional to these loans, Mr O had other credit commitments and 
living expenses including utilities, food and transport. These averaged around £900 a 
month giving total expenditure of around £2,300. This demonstrated that Mr O didnt 
have enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing and given his 
reliance on payday loans I thought proportionate checks would have shown that 
providing further finance wasnt responsible. Moneybarn therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think it would have been proportionate for 
Moneybarn to have verified Mr Os credit commitments and found out more about his 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. This was especially important given Mr O 
was in an IVA. Had these check happened I think Moneybarn would have realised the 
agreement was unaffordable for Mr O.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed and I am 
upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr O should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £8,698 Anything Mr O has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment.
To settle Mr Os complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
End the agreement if it is still active and refund any payments Mr O has made in 
excess of £8,698, representing the original cash price of the car. It should add 8% 
simple interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr O asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman