DRN-3155695
The complaint
Mr M complains AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd (Aegon) gave incorrect information about 
the value of his shareholding.
 What happened
In November 2020 Mr M purchased some shares. Around a month later in December 2020, 
Mr M noticed that Aegons dashboard was displaying a value of £15 per share. Soon after, 
he received a notice of corporate action. The document explained that he would receive one 
share in place of every 20. As Mr M held 1,480 shares, this meant his holding would 
decrease to 74 shares. But the share price would increase to reflect this deduction.
On 22 December 2020, Mr M called to check his understanding of the position of his shares.
He was advised that his overall share numbers would increase by 1 for every 20 shares held 
by 74 to 1,554 and that value per share was £16.50.
On 30 December 2020, Mr M called back again. He had attempted to sell his shares having 
calculated that he would receive around £25,000 on surrender. He said he intended to gift 
the proceeds to his daughters. Mr M requested that Aegon solve the issue he was facing in 
selling his shares.
On 5 January 2021, after the corporate action was completed, Aegons system reflected the 
correct number of shares Mr M held along with the correct value of around £1,500. As the 
value of his shares was vastly different to what he was expecting, based on the information 
he was given in the telephone calls, Mr M complained to Aegon. He explained he had been 
caused a great deal of upset as hed shared the inflated valuation with his family and 
promised to support his daughters financially. 
Aegon looked into Mr Ms concerns. It accepted it had mistakenly told Mr M hed be left with 
more shares than he was entitled to. It also accepted it had provided an incorrect share 
price, which resulted in Mr M being provided an artificially inflated value by its advisers. 
Aegon credited Mr M £500 by way of an apology but Mr M didnt accept the resolution. 
Instead he wanted Aegon to pay him the difference between the current value of his shares 
and what hed been told was the inflated value of the shares.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She found that although Aegon had 
misled Mr M, it wouldnt be fair to ask Aegon to cover the difference as this wasnt the true 
value of the investment. Instead, she considered the distress and inconvenience caused, 
and found the payment of £500 fairly acknowledged the impact, so she didnt think Aegon 
needed to do anything more.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. He said the circumstances had caused him emotional 
distress and had left him significantly worse off as he had to fulfil his promise of financial 
support to his daughters. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of the comments made by both 
parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the central issues.
There isnt any dispute about the fact that Aegon incorrectly told Mr M that his shares were 
worth almost 17 times more than the true value and, despite Mr M contacting it about the 
matter at the time. It failed on several occasions to provide accurate information. What is in 
dispute is whether Aegons decision to compensate Mr M £500 for what happened 
sufficiently resolves the matter.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly about what has happened here. And thats not surprising. 
But our approach to such an error is for the customer to be put back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the error hadnt occurred. As the value Aegon had provided was wrong, it 
wouldnt be fair to award Mr M the difference as his investment was never worth the 
incorrect value quoted.
I appreciate Mr Ms position and his frustration. Ive listened to the calls Mr M had with 
Aegon when he queried what was happening with his shares. I acknowledge he took steps 
to find out how the corporate action would impact his shares and 
sought clarification from Aegon about the value of his investment. 
Its disappointing Aegon made the error it did, so I think the calls it had with Mr M where it 
incorrectly confirmed the value made an already unfortunate situation worse. Having said 
that, Im mindful that the error was corrected fairly quickly  the mistake was made on 22 
December, and Mr M discovered the correct value on 5 Jan; less than 2 weeks after.
Also, whilst it wasnt explicitly clear from the corporate action that Mr Ms number of shares 
would reduce to 74, it did say he would get 1 new ordinary share of GBP 0.10 in place of 
every 20 existing ordinary shares. So, there was nothing to indicate the number of shares 
would multiply or increase  in fact Mr M was told the opposite.
In addition, the calls to Aegon indicate the handlers were uncertain about how the corporate 
action worked. Notwithstanding there were errors, it is clear no guarantees of a large windfall 
were suggested. If anything, Mr M was aware before the corporate action that his 
investments were worth approx. £1,000, so the significant increase in value places doubt on 
whether he truly believed or ought to have truly believed his investment had increased by 
over 2000% in a matter of weeks. 
Mr M says hes spent money that he didnt have and thats put him out of pocket. But Im 
also conscious that its reasonable to assume based on what Mr M has said that he would 
have gifted some of his savings to daughters to assist them with future plans. 
Taking all of these points into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Aegon to pay Mr M the difference in value of shares. Clearly Mr M was given incorrect 
information, but I dont think this amounts to him being given a guaranteed value of his 
shares. 
I do however think Mr M has experienced distress regarding what has happened. 
Understandably, Mr M has made a number of submissions in an effort to point out the impact 
to him and his family, so I dont doubt the strength of feeling behind this complaint. But I dont have the power to take into account the impact to his family when considering a 
compensation award  I can only take into account the impact on Mr M himself. 
It may be helpful to both Mr M if I explain that the purpose of compensation under our rules 
isnt to punish a business for its mistakes or wrongdoing  its intended only to reflect the 
impact on the complainant.
Aegon accepted that it had failed to provide an acceptable level of service when it gave 
incorrect information about the shares value on the dashboard and during the phone calls 
Mr M made. Aegons error, the misplaced assurances it provided has caused Mr M upset. 
Aegon has accepted this and has paid Mr M £500 in total for the impact this has had.
Mr M has his own thoughts on how much compensation should be awarded for what he says 
has gone wrong. In his view, that sum has been tied in with the financial loss hes claimed 
for. Mr M would like a substantial award and certainly more than Aegon has offered. But 
having carefully thought about everything and considering the impact of what happened I 
dont think the level of compensation he is seeking would be appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Overall, I have empathy for Mr M and do understand why hes very unhappy. But I think hes 
suffered a loss of expectation rather than any direct financial loss. Its never easy to decide 
on the correct figure to compensate for the ill information and inaccurate service. Ive no 
doubt that what has happened has caused Mr M distress, but overall, I think £500 
compensation is fair and properly takes this into account. As this has already been paid to 
Mr M, Im not going to ask Aegon to do more than it has to resolve this complaint
.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman