DRN-3783699
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) has unfairly turned down his claims made about a timeshare bought using 
credit.
What happened
In October 2008, Mr E, alongside his wife, took out a timeshare membership from a 
timeshare provider. The membership was funded using a loan from BPF that was in Mr Es 
name only. The loan was paid off in full in October 2009.
In January 2020, Mr E wrote to BPF about the loan. He said that he had enquired with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and it appeared that the entity that brokered the loan 
was not permitted to broker it as required by s.19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA). Mr E asked for BPFs position on the allegation and he thought he may have 
been entitled to a refund of anything paid under the loan.
In February 2020, BPF responded to Mr E to explain that it needed more time to consider 
the claims. But nothing further was received.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs E used a professional representative (PR) to bring a 
complaint about BPF to our service.1  PR said the timeshare provider was not authorised to 
broker the loan and also raised further points about the timeshare, including that it had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs E as they were told resorts were exclusive, that they were 
pressured into entering the agreement and that the right sort of credit checks had not been 
carried out. PR made reference to a number of legal and regulatory provisions that it said 
entitled Mr and Mrs E to make legal claims for compensation and it said there was an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship pursuant to s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
PR also asked for BPF to be sanctioned for not responding to the complaint, contrary to 
DISP 1.4, part of the FCAs Handbook dealing with complaints.
When the complaint was received, we contacted BPF to ask for its position as it had not set 
out its final answer on the complaint. In doing so, BPF looked at the letter PR had sent to our 
service as well as the earlier complaint originally made by Mr E. BPF responded to say it 
thought Mr Es claims has been brought too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA). It didnt give a position on the other parts of the complaint.
One of our investigators considered everything and, having done so, did not think it was one 
that should be upheld. She said that at the time the loan was arranged, brokering the loan 
was not regulated by the FCA (or FSA as it was then), so the broker did not need that sort of 
authorisation. But they did hold a consumer credit license from the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT). She said that any claim that could have been made under s.140A CCA was made 
too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). She thought there was no 
evidence that Mr E found the loan unaffordable, so she could not say he had lost out even if 
1 Although the complaint was made in the names of Mr and Mrs E, as the loan was in Mr Es sole 
name, only he is able to bring this complaint. 
BPF had not done the appropriate lending checks. Finally, she explained that the handling of 
complaints is not, in and of itself, a regulated activity, so we are unable to award 
compensation for a breach of DISP 1.4.
BPF had nothing to add to our investigators view. However, PR, on Mr Es behalf, disagreed 
with what had been said and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint again. It 
said, in summary, that my role was such that I did not have to follow the law, rather I am able 
to take a holistic view of matters. It was said that our investigator failed to explain why she 
found the loan was properly brokered and how any authorisation was exercised lawfully. In 
particular, it was said that even if there was authorisation in place, it was exercised in a way 
to induce Mr and Mrs E into taking out an agreement using misrepresentation. PR said no 
credit checks were undertaken, which was a breach of CONC 5.2.4 of the FCA Handbook, 
but even if checks were done, they did not cover the right issues. PR said that the provisions 
of the LA were not hard and fast rules and also that the matters complained of were 
concealed from Mr and Mrs E at the time of sale, so s.32 LA applies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, I am required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Further, the Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative 
to the courts under FSMA. Given that, my role as an ombudsman is not to address every 
single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide what is fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I am only going to refer to what I think 
are the most salient points. But I have read all of the submissions from both sides in full and 
I keep in mind all of the points that have been made when I set out my final decision.
The claims under s.140A CCA
PR says that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship due, amongst other things, to 
the actions of the timeshare provider. The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was 
held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time 
for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. Here the limitation period is six years. That is 
because the claim Mr E wishes to make is for repayment of sums he has paid to the loan, 
which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to which s.9 LA applies.
That meant Mr E would have to bring an action within six years of October 2009 at the latest. 
As he did not do that, I think he brought his claim too late.
Can the limitation period be extended?PR says that the relevant sections of the LA are not hard and fast rules in so far as from 
when the clock starts ticking in respect of the cause of action accruing. However, I think 
the LA can offer a complete defence to any claim Mr E may have against BPF and that is 
something that I must take into account. So, the LA does operate as a hard and fast rule if a 
claim is made outside of a limitation period. However, I have considered whether there is a 
reason why the limitation period might be extended.
PR has pointed to s.32 LA, which says that the limitation period can be different when facts 
that are relevant to a claimants cause of action are deliberately concealed from them or 
when the action is based on the fraud of the defendant. However, I cannot see that anything 
about the specific claim being made was concealed from Mr E or that the claim under 
s.140A CCA is based on BPFs (or its statutory agents) fraud.
Did BPF properly assess Mr Es ability to repay the loan
Mr E says that BPF was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit 
assessment to determine whether they could afford to repay the loans. Our investigator said 
that she could not see any evidence that Mr E found the loan unaffordable.
PR says that BPF had strict obligations under the CONC section of the FCA Handbook and 
failed to undertake those obligations.2 However, when considering a complaint about 
unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out 
due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if BPF did not do appropriate checks (and I 
make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would 
need to see that Mr E lost out as a result of its failings. Mr E has provided no evidence 
whatsoever that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not 
need to consider this point further.
Was the timeshare company authorised to broker loans?
PR argues that the loan was unenforceable as it was arranged without the proper formalities 
required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).3 In particular, there is 
a general prohibition that people can only carry on regulated activities in the UK if they are 
authorised to do so (s.19 FMSA) and agreements made through unauthorised people are 
unenforceable (s.27 FSMA). PR said that the entity that appeared on the face of the credit 
agreement was not authorised to broker loans.
However our investigator explained to PR that at the relevant time the timeshare provider 
held an OFT licence  the OFT being the body that regulated consumer credit. PR has not 
explained why it disagrees with this. In the absence of any argument that the entity that 
brokered the loan didnt hold the right OFT authorisation, I see no reason to consider this 
point further.
PR has also said that the way the loan was arranged, specifically by making 
misrepresentations to Mr and Mrs E, the broker improperly exercised any authorisation it 
may have held. But the remedy to that concern is by making the other claims PR made on 
Mr Es behalf, which for the reasons set out above, were made too late. I do not think, in this 
case, the broker would lose its authorisation to broker loans if it had misrepresented the 
nature of the timeshare membership paid for by the loan.
2 In any event, CONC did not apply to this sale as the FCA did not regulate consumer credit at the 
time Mr E took out his loan.
3 At the time the loan was arranged, the regulation of consumer credit activities did not fall under the 
FCA and neither the granting of the loan, nor brokering it, were regulated activities. Given that, it is 
unclear whether FMSA would apply to Mr Es loan, but I dont need to make a finding on that point as 
I think the broker was authorised.Has BPF done anything wrong in not responding to Mr Es initial complaint?
PR has pointed to BPFs responsibilities under DISP 1.4 and noted that BPF did not provide 
its final response in the time limits set out. However, the answering of a complaint about a 
regulated financial activity is not, in and of itself, a regulated activity. So I do not have the 
power to consider this part of Mr Es complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman