DRN-3710795
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt let him know it removed funds from his 
account or tell him why. He wants compensation for the distress this caused him.
What happened
The facts which led to Mr K bringing his complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here. 
In summary, Barclays removed all the funds from a current account Mr K held to carry out a 
review. It put the reference to reconcile next to the debit but didnt tell Mr K where the funds 
were until sometime later. Mr K says this caused him distress as he was concerned his 
money had been taken or accidentally paid away.
Our investigator concluded Barclays acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when removing the funds to carry out a review. But it should have told Mr K that the funds 
were still in its possession. Not doing so likely caused Mr K unnecessary distress. They 
recommended Barclays pay Mr K £100 compensation, which Barclays agreed to pay.
Mr K disagreed with the outcome and asked for a final decision, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint, but Im not directing Barclays to pay Mr K more than 
£100. Ill explain why:
Barclays has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an 
account is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its 
customer, verify their sources of income, as well as detect and prevent financial 
crime.
Barclays will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And, its common 
industry practice for firms to restrict access to accounts or remove funds to conduct a 
review - doing so helps prevent potential financial loss or other harm that could 
otherwise result. I find Barclays acted fairly by blocking Mr Ks account and didnt 
need to tell him the full reasons behind its decision.
But the above should not have prevented Barclays from letting Mr K know it had 
removed the funds in the account shortly after doing so. Instead, I find Barclays 
ought to have told Mr K it had removed the funds promptly, and this would have 
alleviated some of his concern about the funds whereabouts.
I find £100 is a fair sum to compensate Mr K for the worry he experienced. I am not 
awarding more than this because I havent seen evidence or information which would 
warrant a greater sum. I understand Mr K felt like he was being treated like a 
criminal, but ultimately Barclays could remove the funds and its review was 
completed without undue delay. I find awarding a larger sum would be 
disproportionate in these circumstances.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr K accepting my final decision Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay him £100 
compensation. Barclays should make payment within 28 days of Mr Ks acceptance being 
communicated to it.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
compensation according to my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman