DRN-3149749
The complaint
Mr L says IG Markets Limited (IG) wrongly applied margin call close-outs to two Contracts 
for Differences (CFD) positions he held in his account. He says he was not bound by IGs 
terms for the account and that he was not bound by the terms related to margin calls.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he found as follows:
The first margin close-out was applied on 16 April 2020, to a position based on 
36,891 BP shares; and the second was applied on 18 September 2020 to a position 
based on 17,431 BP shares; Mr L disputes their applications, he says he was not 
informed about the terms for the account in May 2019 when he opened it and he 
never received a copy of those terms thereafter, so he considers he is not bound by 
them; in addition, he is unhappy that he was not given prior notice of the margin 
close-outs and he believes IG has wrongly deprived him of dividend payments 
associated with his positions; he also says an HSBC based position that had a bigger 
running loss than the BP positions had not been closed-out so he questions why the 
BP positions were closed out; he seeks compensation for deprived dividend 
payments, for the loss of profits he would have made on the closed positions and for 
the distress and anxiety the matter has caused him.
IG says the margin close-outs were legitimately applied because on both occasions 
Mr Ls accounts equity had fallen below the requisite level of 50% of maintenance 
margin for the positions; that Mr L completed his application for the account in May 
2019 in person in its office and he accepted the terms for the account in the course of 
doing so  he had to in order to open the account; that it was not obliged to re-send 
those terms to him afterwards; in addition, Mr L previously held an IG CFD account in 
2012 and during the discussions for the 2019 account application his awareness of 
the leverage based trading nature of CFDs was confirmed; and it is satisfied that the 
correct dividend adjustments were made to the positions that remained opened on 
the relevant ex-dividend dates of 7 May 2020 and 13 August 2020.
On balance, customers would reasonably expect that there would be a 
contract/agreement in place to govern the relationship and obligations of the parties 
associated with the account; and, in Mr Ls case, he had previous experience of a 
CFD account with IG; so he would have had a general awareness that there would 
be an underlying contract/agreement with terms for the account; furthermore, even if 
he was unaware of the terms, had he been made aware of them it is more likely (than 
not) he would have accepted them and proceeded to trade as he did.
Relevant terms for the account [which the investigator cited] clarify the margin 
requirements for trading, the margin close-out provisions where equity (account 
balance +/- P&L) is equal to or less than 50% of margin requirement, the account 
holders responsibility to monitor and manage margin in the account, that failure to 
maintain margin will be regarded as an event of default and that IG is not obliged to 
give prior notice of a margin call. IG has provided evidence of the margin breaches in 
Mr Ls account that led to the close-outs  at 9:08am on 16 April 2020 the margin 
requirement for his open positions was £41,336.50 whilst account equity was less 
than 50% of this at £20,609.33; and at 8:12am on 18 September 2020 the margin 
requirement for his open positions was £16,509.80 whilst account equity was less 
than 50% of this at £8,237.
At the times of the close-outs, Mr L only held the BP positions. At the time his HSBC 
based position had the running loss he has referred to, there was no breach of the 
margin requirement so there had been no margin close-out.
IG correctly applied the relevant dividend adjustments to Mr Ls BP based positions.
Mr L disagreed with this outcome and, based on the notes of his conversation with the 
investigator, he mainly said it is for IG to prove that he was presented with a copy of the 
terms for the account; that other providers had given him prior notice of a margin call in the 
same situation, in order for him to add more funds, so IG should have done the same; that 
IG should not be allowed to hide behind its terms; and that the matter cannot be properly 
concluded until IG is made to provide a response to his letter of 6 August 2020, which it has 
never provided.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ls dispute about the terms for his account, he says he was never 
provided with those terms at the opening of the account in 2019, that he therefore never 
agreed to them and that he is not bound by them. The task before me is to consider the 
circumstances surrounding the account opening event and evidence relevant to that, in order 
to determine what, on balance, is more likely (than not) to have happened.
The first point to note is that in 2019 Mr L was not a novice to IGs CFD accounts. He had 
one in 2012. IG has shared a copy of his signed application form from then, dated 10 April 
2012. He signed a declaration, directly above his signature, which said he had been 
provided with a Risk Disclosure Notice (RDN), Customer Agreement (CA), Order 
Execution Policy (OEP) and Conflicts Policy (CP) and that he had read, understood and 
agreed to be bound these documents. As such, there is also evidence that he was not a 
novice to the key terms for an IG CFD account (that is, the RDN, CA, OEP and CP) or to the 
notion of agreeing to be bound by them in order to open such an account.
In 2019, it appears that Mr L began the application process with a hard copy form that he 
completed and took into IGs office, but the process was then completed online, in Mr Ls 
presence, by an IG official during this meeting. On balance, I am satisfied with IGs assertion 
that he would have needed to agree to the terms for the account  as he did in 2012  in 
order to open the account. If he had refused to do so, I consider that the account would not 
have been opened for him. It appears inconceivable that IG would have opened one of its 
accounts for him without getting his agreement to those terms or opened the account if he did not agree to be bound by them. I have not seen evidence to show or suggest that IG 
waived its terms for the account for Mr L or had cause to do so.
Furthermore, Mr Ls complaint submissions include the following  My only obligation was to 
have an initial 20% deposit to cover the BP CFD purchase. This illustrates Mr Ls 
awareness and acceptance of a margin related obligation on his part in the account and it 
arguably conflicts with his assertions that he was unaware of terms (including obligations) for 
the account and that he was bound by none. In this quoted sentence he confirms awareness 
of a term and obligation to have initial margin in the account and he accepts he was bound 
by it.
Overall and on balance, I do not accept Mr Ls claim that he did not agree the terms for the 
account in 2019 and that those terms are not binding on him; I consider that he agreed those 
terms, that he would have had to agree them in order to open the account, that he had 
previous experience of agreeing such terms and of being bound by them in 2012 and that he 
agreed to be bound by them again in 2019.
As the investigator set out, relevant terms for the account made it Mr Ls responsibility to 
monitor and manage margin in his account and IG was not obliged to give him prior notice of 
a margin call close-out, regardless of his reference to experience with other firms in which 
such prior notice was given to him. Other firms practices were/are not binding on IG. The 
terms set out the need for him to maintain margin for open positions, based on the 
requirement for equity above 50% of required margin. Given his trading experience with IG 
and given the suggestion, within his comment about other firms, that he had trading 
experience from elsewhere, I am not persuaded that he would not have known about how 
this was a continuing responsibility  for as long as positions remained opened  aside from 
the initial margin required to open a position.
As the investigator said, account equity on 16 April 2020 and on 18 September 2020 fell 
below 50% of the required margin levels at the relevant times and the close-outs were 
triggered, as the agreed terms for the account prescribed. 
Overall and on balance, available evidence is that the close-outs were legitimately triggered 
and applied in response to equity/margin requirement breaches in the account on both 
occasions, so there is no wrongdoing by IG in this respect. With regards to the HSBC based 
position Mr L has referred to  which he says he opened in August 2019 and closed in 
February 2020 at a greater loss than existed in the BP based positions  evidence suggests 
that despite the loss he has described no equity/margin requirement breach happened at the 
time. Such breaches happened in both close-outs of the BP based positions, so 
circumstances are not comparable. 
Like the investigator, I too have not seen evidence that IG wrongly applied the dividend 
adjustments for the BP based positions that remained open in May and August 2020. Mr L 
has argued that he would have received more in this respect had his position not been 
wrongly closed out in April 2020, but as I have found above, that close-out was legitimate. 
Mr L shared with us a copy of a letter dated 6 August 2020 addressed to IG. He says IG 
never replied to it and that it should be made to do so. The letter says mainly as follows:
It refers to the opening of his BP based position in March 2020 and learning, to his 
surprise, during a telephone call on 31 July about the close-out on 16 April. It says he 
was given no prior notice of the close-out and was therefore deprived the opportunity 
to consider adding funds to his account. It also says the close-out was illegitimate 
and irresponsible, and that it had caused him a financial loss. [point 1]It refers to the likelihood that the dividend adjustment he received after the 16 April 
close-out would have been higher, but for the close-out eliminating over half of the 
overall/total BP position(s) he had opened. [point 2]
It refers to his comparison with the circumstances of the HSBC based position. [point 
3]
It made the following queries and asked for responses to them  what is the meaning 
and role of the account manager that was allocated to him?; why did the account 
manager fail to give him prior notice and explanation of the close-out in April?; why 
did IG fail to give him notice of the close-out after it happened?; why did IG apply a 
close-out in this case but not for the HSBC based position?; does IG consider that it 
has conducted itself with honesty, decency, transparency and integrity in the matter? 
[point 4]
Having already set out its position and responses to the complaint IG informed the 
investigator that it did not consider it necessary to address this letter separately but it 
remains willing to address any query we have in relation to it.
My task is to determine the complaint issues. Mr Ls complaint has been responded to by IG 
and it appears to have engaged meaningfully with this service during our treatment of the 
complaint. I acknowledge Mr Ls request for a response from IG to the above letter, but in 
this case, I do not consider IGs comments to be unreasonable. The letter is mainly about 
the same complaint issues that IG has addressed and that the investigator has addressed. 
IG offered to answer any query we have about the letter, but I have found no such query to 
make. An observation I do make is that subsequent to the events of 16 April, to Mr Ls 
awareness of it on 31 July and to the representations in his letter of 6 August, he appears to 
have had even less reasons not to have been monitoring margin in his account at the time of 
the second close-out in September. 
Points 1, 2 and 3 have already been determined in my findings above  and were also 
addressed in the investigators findings. With regards to point 4, it appears that Mr L might 
no longer be trading with IG; if so, his enquiry about the role of an account manager could 
arguably be redundant; if not and if he is still trading with IG, then he can enquire into this 
directly with said account manager; either way, the complaint is about IGs conduct in the 
close-outs and not about issues with a specific account manager; the argument about prior 
notice has already been treated in this decision; the same treatment extends to Mr Ls query 
about subsequent notice  IG was not obliged to give any notice (prior or subsequent) of the 
close-out and it was Mr Ls responsibility to monitor his account and manage margin within it 
at all relevant times; the comparison with the HSBC based position has also been addressed 
above; and it is clear from IGs position in the complaint that it considers itself to have done 
nothing wrong in the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman