DRN-2106894
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy because Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim she made on 
her income protection policy. 
What happened
Ms M has an income protection policy which covers her in the event of unemployment. In
March 2019 she made a claim on the policy when she didnt complete a fixed term contract.
It came to an end 8 months into the 12 month contract. Prior to starting this contract Ms M
told our service shed worked for a private company for a year. She also said shed 
previously made a successful claim on the policy back in 2015.
Aviva declined the claim on the basis that the policy terms didnt cover Ms Ms 
circumstances  they said she wasnt covered because shed only completed 8 out of the 12
months. Ms M disagreed and made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think Aviva had fairly declined
the claim and asked Aviva to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Aviva said that the policy terms set out what circumstances the policy covered, and Ms M 
wasnt covered. They said that the section of the terms our investigator relied on werent 
relevant to Ms Ms situation. 
In August 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I wasnt intending to uphold Ms 
Ms complaint. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms say that Aviva will not pay for any unemployment:
After the end of a fixed-term contract which is not renewed unless:
You have worked continuously for the same employer for at least 24 
months; or
Your contract is for at least 12 months and has been renewed at least 
once with the same employer; or
You were originally employed on a permanent basis but were transferred 
to a fixed-term contract by the same employer without a break in 
employment.
In the FAQs section of the policy documents it goes on to say:
I am on a fixed term contract, can I still claim for unemployment benefit?
Yes. If you have worked continuously for the same employer for at least 24 
months or:
Your contract is for at least 12 months and your contract has been renewed 
at least once with the same employer or
You were originally employed on a permanent basis but were transferred 
to a fixed term contract by the same employer, without a break in 
employment then your claim is unaffected by your fixed term contract 
status and you will be treated as if you were employed.
If your employment was not continuous or with the same employer, or not for 
at least 12 months, then you may still be able to claim but not beyond the date 
your contract would have ended.
Im not intending to uphold Ms Ms complaint as I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to decline her claim.
Ms Ms worked for 8 months out of a planned 12 month fixed term contract. I 
understand it came to an end via mutual agreement. Prior to that she had worked 
for a different company for a year.
She hadnt worked continuously for the same employer for at least 24 months as 
she told us she had changed employers. Her contract was for 12 months but hadnt 
been renewed by the same employer and she hadnt been transferred to a fixed 
term contract from permanent employment.
Ms Ms policy set out the limited circumstances in which she could claim, and she 
doesnt meet them as she was only insured for unemployment at the end of a fixed 
term contract, not it coming to an end early. If this wasnt the level of cover Ms M 
was looking for, given that she was working on fixed term contracts then Id have 
expected her to arrange the appropriate level of cover for her circumstances.
The wording in the FAQs section doesnt change my thoughts about the outcome 
of this complaint. It says that Ms M may be covered but she wouldnt be able to 
claim beyond the point that her contract would have ended. So, in Ms Ms case 
that would be a maximum of four months. But it doesnt guarantee that payment 
will be made and there is no provision within the actual policy terms for this 
scenario. It is only referred to in the FAQs section.
Ive also taken into account whether it is fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay the 
claim. I dont think that it is. Ms M told us that her contract came to an end by mutual 
agreement. This policy is designed to protect against unexpected and unplanned 
unemployment, rather than a mutual agreement to end a contract early. So, based on 
the information I have, I dont think it is fair to direct Aviva to pay Ms Ms claim. 
Aviva didnt add anything further in response to my provisional decision. Ms M made a 
number of further points. In summary she said: 
The policy terms and conditions hadnt been considered correctly  this goes against 
the rules of fairness and natural justice 
Our service has a duty to help customers when insurers reject claims unfairly
The cover was sold in the knowledge that Ms M worked on fixed term contracts 
Her understanding of the policy came direct from the insurer, shes had a number of 
conversations about the policy and her working on fixed term contracts Under the policy terms and conditions she has a valid claim 
The insurer has tried to reject her claim for a number of reasons
Outsourcing to call centres has caused problems as no one has authority to make 
decisions 
The reasoning in the provisional decision isnt logical and all the reasons for rejecting 
the claim are incorrect.
So, I now need to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all the further points and information provided by Ms M but Ill only 
refer to those which I think are central to my decision. Having done so Im not upholding Ms 
Ms complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Our service is impartial and therefore its not my role to support either Ms M or Aviva. My 
role is to consider the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable. 
Ms Ms original complaint to our service didnt relate to the sale of the policy so Im not 
reaching a decision about that issue or any subsequent conversations shes had with Aviva 
in relation to her circumstances. Her central complaint point when she complained to our 
service was in relation to the claim being declined. So, thats what my decision will relate to. 
If Ms M has outstanding concerns about the sale of the policy thats something shell need to 
give Aviva the opportunity to address first.   
The policy terms say that Aviva will not pay for any unemployment:
After the end of a fixed-term contract which is not renewed unless:
You have worked continuously for the same employer for at least 24 
months; or
Your contract is for at least 12 months and has been renewed at least 
once with the same employer; or
You were originally employed on a permanent basis but were transferred 
to a fixed-term contract by the same employer without a break in 
employment.
Ms M argues that nowhere in the policy does it say that after one episode of employment, 
the policyholder should have either a permanent contract or a contract of more than 12 or 24 
months. She says that its illogical to apply the clause I highlighted in my provisional decision 
as it was only intended for an initial situation and applicable to a claim arising for the first 
time after a policy was taken out, to her present claim. She says it is simply not applicable 
for subsequent claims. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ms arguments. The eligibility criteria is set out in a different part of 
the policy and the above information is included under the section, What am I not covered 
for? in the key facts section of the policy and is also set out in the general exclusions. As I outlined in my provisional decision, I think there are only certain circumstances in which 
Ms M was covered. And I dont think ending the contract early by mutual agreement is one of 
them in the circumstances of her case. I understand that Ms M doesnt agree with my 
interpretation of the policy terms and Im sorry to disappoint her. But I think the policy terms 
make it sufficiently clear that she would be covered in limited circumstances. Ms Ms 
situation didnt fall into any of those exceptions above and therefore I dont think her claim is 
covered under the policy terms. 
Ms M also pointed out that on the claim form she could select an option for ending a fixed 
term contract by mutual agreement. But the claim form is designed to capture information 
about a number of different types of employment including permanent workers, seasonal 
workers and temporary workers. So, it needs to cover a wide range of circumstances. I think 
the option is also there so that the insurer can easily identify the relevant circumstances in 
which employment has ended. The question specifically asks if voluntary redundancy, 
resignation and misconduct are involved. Even though it appears on the claim form it doesnt 
automatically follow that Ms M has an eligible claim.  The success of the claim depends on 
the policy terms and, in this case, I dont think Aviva has unreasonably declined Ms Ms 
claim. 
Ms M has also mentioned that Aviva has tried to reject her claim for a number of reasons 
and that outsourcing for call centres has had an impact here. But, ultimately, Im satisfied 
that her claim was correctly declined based on the evidence Ive been provided with. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman