DRN-4204733
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated them unfairly 
when dealing with a request to change their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage with RBS comprises of three sub accounts. Two of the three 
accounts are repayment mortgages and one is an interest only mortgage. 
Sub account one was on a fixed rate product that expired at the end of 2020 and Mr and 
Mrs B wanted to fix a new rate for this to move to. They were able to select an option to 
move this to a new rate through RBSs online portal but their other two sub accounts, which 
were both on a tracker rate which was 1.1% above the Bank of England (BoE) base rate, 
couldnt be moved to a product online.
Mr and Mrs B say they had a conversation with their private banking manager to see if sub 
account two and three could be moved to the same fixed rate product as sub account one. 
They say the private banking manager spoke with the mortgage centre but was told sub 
account three, which was interest only, would need to be moved to a repayment mortgage if 
the same product was to be selected. Mr and Mrs B said this wasnt something they wanted 
to do at this point and so they didnt change the interest rate with either sub account two or 
three. As a result, they made an online application to move sub account one to a new 
product only. 
In September 2022, Mr and Mrs B spoke with a new private banking manager and explained 
what theyd been told before about needing to move their interest only mortgage to a 
repayment account before being able to secure a new rate. The new adviser said this was 
incorrect and there is no requirement for this. Mr and Mrs B attempted to select a new rate 
using the online portal but it gave the same message as before  stating the product wasnt 
eligible for a switch. Mr and Mrs B needed to speak with the mortgage centre to fix this but it 
took five weeks before they could get an appointment. 
RBS said it could honour the rate Mr and Mrs B were able to see when they spoke with their 
private banking manager in September 2022, but it couldnt agree to back date the rate to 
what was available in September 2020. This was because it could see they tried to make the 
switch online in 2022 after speaking with their banking manager. They were not able to do 
this because of the constraints on RBSs system and sub account two and three both being 
legacy products. But it couldnt agree it had provided incorrect information in 2020 as it 
couldnt confirm the conversation Mr and Mrs B said they had with their private banking 
manager or the conversation the private banking manager had with the mortgage centre.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think it was fair and reasonable to ask 
RBS to do anything else. She said she had listened to the calls available and reviewed the 
contact notes and couldnt see anything to confirm the conversation that Mr and Mrs B said 
they had or that a conversation took place with their private banking manager and the 
mortgage centre that raised the question about moving sub account two and three to a new 
product in 2020.  In the absence of this, she wasnt persuaded that RBS had provided 
incorrect advice.
She didnt think RBS had acted unfairly when its system didnt allow all accounts to be 
migrated using the online portal. She felt it was reasonable to expect that some legacy 
products may have different constraints but RBS was still able to move the older mortgages 
to new products through the mortgage centre.
Overall, she felt the offer to back date the interest rate for the product to the September 2022 
rate was fair and she didnt think RBS needed to do anything else.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They feel RBS has failed to follow the Financial Conduct 
Authorities principles in treating them fairly, placing barriers to their ability to manage their 
account.   
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Mr and Mrs B were given false information about their 
options to change their mortgage in 2020. There is limited information to support what was 
said at the time, so Ive considered what I think is most likely to have happened based on the 
information available. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for similar 
reasons to that of our investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
When Mr and Mrs B completed the rate swap application for sub account one, sub account 
two and threes interest rate was 1.2%. The five-year fixed Mr and Mrs B selected for sub 
account one was on a higher rate of 1.49%.
It isnt disputed that RBSs online portal would not allow Mr and Mrs B to move sub account 
two and three to a new product as an online application. So I think it is likely that if Mr and 
Mrs B wanted to change the rate that these two accounts were on, theyd ask for assistance 
in how to do this. From the telephone recordings that have been provided and the contact 
notes from the time, it is clear Mr and Mrs B spoke with RBS a number of times and their 
private banking manager needed to call the mortgage centre to clarify some points that they 
werent sure on. But neither the phone calls, or contact notes indicate there was a 
conversation about changing the rate on sub account two and three and what Mr and Mrs B 
might need to change with the account for this to happen.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they recall having this conversation and they feel the lack of 
call recordings is penalising them unfairly. But the call recordings are just part of what 
information is recorded as a record of their contact and the contact notes also provided do 
not show this conversation took place. And while I accept there is likely conversations with 
the banking manager that may not be recorded, I think any dealings with the mortgage 
centre would have been recorded within the contact notes.
The interest rate on sub account two and three was considerably lower than the new fixed 
rate product Mr and Mrs B were taking out. And while I appreciate they said they wanted to 
fix regardless of this, because of the BOE base rate being so low at the time. I still think their 
primary focus was on ensuring that sub account one didnt move to the banks standard 
variable rate and their conversations and contact notes suggest this. Mr and Mrs B spoke directly with the mortgage centre and didnt ask about sub account two 
or three. While I accept this could be because they had already been given information 
about this, I dont think it is unreasonable that they could have asked this question again and 
sought confirmation that what they had been told was correct.
Overall, Im not persuaded that RBS did provide Mr and Mrs B with incorrect advice about 
their mortgage in 2020. I dont think it has placed any unfair barriers to them with sub 
accounts two and three because they cannot be changed online. It is able to make changes 
to this mortgage using other channels and I think it has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly when 
offering these options. 
The private banking manager should have made it clear theyd need to make an 
appointment with the mortgage centre to make changes to these accounts and when they 
didnt do this, it added a delay. But the steps taken to offer Mr and Mrs B the rate they could 
have achieved at this point are fair and puts them in the position they would have been in 
had this not happened.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask RBS to do anything else in 
relation to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage and sub accounts. I cannot be satisfied that incorrect 
information was provided at the time and the steps now taken to put right the failings in 
September 2022 are fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman