DRN-4249327
The complaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Insurance plc is responsible for mishandling his claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a comprehensive policy for the year from March 2022. The policy was branded 
with the name of an insurance intermediary. Zurich was the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with any claim. The policy covered a car with an 07 registration. 
Mr B changed that car for one registered in 2018. Mr B put that car on the policy in April 
2022 at an extra cost.
Unfortunately, in early July 2022, Mr B reported to Zurich that an accident involving a cyclist  
had damaged the car.
Zurich got the car repaired in early September 2022. Mr B paid an excess.
In mid-September 2022, Mr B complained to Zurich about delay and poor communication.
By a final response dated mid-October 2022, Zurich accepted the complaint about 
communication and said it was sending Mr B a cheque for £125.00 compensation.
By early December 2022, Zurich had sent Mr B a further £50.00, making a total of £175.00.
Zurich quoted Mr B an increased premium for the year from March 2023.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in late February 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
Zurich had addressed the lack of communication. But she thought that Zurich had caused 
delays, for which it hadnt compensated Mr B. This took effort for Mr B to sort out and went 
above a minor inconvenience or clerical error. She recommended that Zurich should pay 
compensation of £300.00.
Mr B responded to the investigators opinion as follows:
Zurich still hasnt resolved the claim.
If Zurich had resolved it earlier, his premium wouldnt have gone up so much in 
March 2023.
Zurich didnt respond to the investigators opinion. So the investigator asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of this final decision
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules is that, before we can investigate a complaint, the 
consumer must first have made that complain to the regulated firm and waited for up to eight 
weeks for a final response. It follows that we cant usually investigate points of complaint 
about acts or omissions after the complaint that prompted the final response.
Also, the rules require a two-stage process under which an investigator gives an opinion and 
then an ombudsman may give a final decision.
So this final decision will look at Zurichs service and delays up to Mr Bs complaint in mid-
September 2022.
Recovery
Where a policyholder has made a claim and an insurer has made an outlay (e.g. on repairs) 
then its common practice for that insurer to treat the claim as an open claim or as a fault 
claim against the policyholder unless and until the insurer recovers its outlay in full, typically 
from a third party.
There may be a number of reasons why an insurer doesnt pursue recovery against a third 
party. So a faut claim doesnt necessarily mean that the policyholder was responsible for 
causing the accident or damage.
Any claim, and especially a fault claim, will weigh against the policyholder when the insurer 
assesses its quote for the premium for the following policy year.
Zurichs policy terms included the following:
(b) The Insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the Insurers expense in 
Your name or in the name of any other person insured by this Insurance Document: 
(i) the negotiation defence or settlement of any claim; 
(ii) legal proceedings to recover for the Insurers own benefit any payments made 
under this insurance You or any other person covered by this insurance must 
give the Insurer all documentation, help and information they may need.
That means that, on a question of how to deal with a claim involving a third party, Zurichs 
view would prevail over the policyholders view. That includes Zurichs view about weighing 
up the potential benefit of a recovery against the costs and risks of court proceedings.
From the timeline, Ive noted that Zurich didnt make enough progress in July 2022 either 
with repairs or with contacting the cyclist. Zurich had contact details for the cyclist for about a 
month before mid- August 2022, when Zurich asked the cyclist for their insurance details.
From early September 2022, Zurich had an outlay on repairs, that it could seek to recover 
from the cyclist. 
Zurich hadnt - by mid-September 2022 - reached a decision on whether to pursue the cyclist 
to try to recover its outlay. (From what Mr B and Zurich have each said, Zurich still hasnt 
reached such a decision.)I understand Mr Bs view that Zurich shouldve resolved the issue of recovery in his favour 
before mid-September 2022 (or at least before the renewal date in March 2023). However, 
Im looking at acts and omissions up to mid-September 2022. And Ive noted a lack of 
response from the cyclist or their representatives. 
So I cant say that Zurich shouldve resolved the issue of recovery by mid-September 2022. 
Further, I cant say that Zurich shouldve resolved the issue in Mr Bs favour. 
It follows that I cant hold Zurich responsible for the consequences of the claim remaining 
open in mid-September 2023. And, as Ive said, I cant look into Zurichs acts or omissions 
after mid-September 2022  or the consequences of that including the effect on its renewal 
quote from March 2023.
Communication and delay
Zurichs final response accepted that it hadnt communicated with Mr B as well as it 
shouldve. In addition, Ive noted some delay in getting a booking-in date for the repairs and 
some delay in contacting the cyclist.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr B. From what hes said to us, I consider that he was  
worried about the likely effect of the claim on his renewal premium  and in turn on the 
affordability of being able to keep and drive his car. So he wanted a resolution and felt he 
had to telephone Zurich to chase progress or updates.
Putting things right
Weighing it all up, I dont consider that Zurichs payments totalling £175.00 were enough to 
compensate Mr B for the inconvenience and distress caused to him by Zurichs poor 
communication and delay. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Zurich Insurance plc to pay Mr B - in addition to its payments totalling £175.00  a 
further £125.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman