DRN-3024102
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited mishandled her claim under 
section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs S entered into a 12-month interest free fixed sum loan with Omni Capital 
which was for around £6,950. The loan was to pay a retailer to install a new bathroom in her 
property.
In May 2019 the retailer attended Mrs Ss home and started work. Omni Capital says that it 
was informed by the retailer that the work had been completed and so it released the funds. 
Mrs S says that the work wasnt completed, and the bathroom was poorly installed with 
things left unfinished. She says she tried to contact the retailer to put the issues right but was 
then told they had gone into liquidation.
Mrs S complained to Omni Capital in May 2019 that she had been left without a useable 
bathroom and queried why the funds and been released to the retailer before the bathroom 
had been completed satisfactorily.
Omni Capital didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint as it said it didnt have any liability because the 
financial agreement was unregulated.
Mrs S contacted this service. She said the bathroom remained unusable and she had 
arranged for two different plumbing companies to inspect the work and provide reports and 
quotes for putting the work right.  
Omni Capital reviewed its original decision agreed that the fixed sum loan agreement 
between itself and Mrs S was regulated and that it would have liability under S75 of 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. It asked for it to be permitted to carry out its own inspection of 
the bathroom and assess the workmanship, as it said it had concerns about the two quotes 
provided by Mrs S. Omni Capital said the quotes were close to the loan cost for the newly 
fitted bathroom but didnt appear to be involving the purchasing of new items. It said it 
wanted to confirm all the work listed in the quotes was necessary.
Mrs S confirmed she was happy for such an inspection to take place and signed an authority 
form in April 2021. However, to date, Omni Capital hasnt arranged for this inspection to take 
place.
Our investigator recommended Mrs Ss compliant should be upheld. She said she didnt 
think Omni Capital had treated Mrs S fairly and its delays in resolving her complaint had 
caused her a significant detriment. Our investigator said that she thought there had been a 
clear breach of contract between the retailer and Mrs S due to the poor installation of the 
bathroom which the retailer wasnt in a position to now rectify. While she appreciated Omni 
Capital wanted to do its own inspection, it had struggled to find a local company to carry this 
out and it wasnt fair to expect Mrs S to wait any longer. 
Our investigator said the two quotes provided by Miss S set out the damage and poor 
workmanship that had been carried out in the bathroom and she didnt think it was unusual 
for an invoice to put things right, in a situation like this, to be close to the original cost of the 
installation.
To fairly settle Mrs Ss claim, our investigator asked Omni Capital to choose one of the two 
suppliers that had provided a quote for refitting the bathroom for Mrs S and arrange for the 
remedial works to be completed; to refund the cost of new tiles that Mrs S will need to 
purchase once a receipt has been supplied and pay Mrs S £1,000 as compensation for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience due to its handling of her claim. Our investigator 
said this could have been resolved much earlier.
Mrs S agreed with our investigators view. Omni Capital asked for time to consider it, but it 
hasnt then provided its own view. As Omni Capital hasnt agreed with our investigators 
recommendation the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, in certain circumstances where a transaction 
has been financed by a credit agreement and there is a claim against the supplier in respect 
of misrepresentation or breach of contract, then a like claim can be made against the 
creditor. Here, it was Omni Capital who provided the fixed sum loan to Mrs S for the new 
bathroom to be supplied and installed by the retailer.
I dont think its disputed that there has been a breach of contract between the suppliers who 
fitted the bathroom and Mrs S. And Omni Capital has accepted that Mrs S is entitled to make 
a claim under S75.
When looking at a S75 complaint my remit is to look at the actions of Omni Capital as to how 
it has handled the claim. Omni Capital says that it couldnt accept the invoices provided by 
Mrs S because both quotes received are close to the original loan value with no new fittings 
being included and Omni Capital would like confirmation that the cost is indicative to the 
quotes received.
While I understand that Omni Capital wanted to ensure a fair settlement for Mrs S based on 
objective information, I dont think it was absolutely necessary for a further inspection to be 
carried out to reach a resolution. Particularly as it hasnt been possible to arrange this to take 
place promptly. Here, Mrs S had already had to endure many months without a usable 
bathroom due to faulty plumbing, a floor that needed to be replaced and poor tiling. I think it 
was clear from the detailed description provided by one of the plumbers who had inspected 
the bathroom for Mrs S, that it needed everything to be removed and then reinstalled. The 
work required was also mirrored by the second quote obtained by Mrs S 
Looking at the work that was needed to put the bathroom right, Im not surprised that the 
costs werent significantly lower than the originally loan amount because they entailed the 
careful removing of the bath, sink etc and then refitting once various remedial work had been 
undertaken to the plumbing and flooring. Omni Capital also didnt appear to have taken into 
account that Mrs S had paid an additional £1,000 deposit on top of the loan amount to the 
retailer, so the refitting was £1,000 less than the original cost of the new bathroom. So, the 
cost of correcting the poor workmanship wasnt the same as the original fitting cost. I think it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable for Omni Capital to have accepted the quotes provided by 
Mrs S and work to settle this matter without further delay.Following our investigators view that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld, Omni Capital 
asked for time to reflect on her recommended settlement. However, despite the amount of 
time that has now passed no further contact has been made by it. In light of how long this 
matter has now gone on for, I dont think it would be fair to Mrs S for me to further chase a 
response from Omni Capital. I think its reasonable to say it has had sufficient time to put 
together a response if it had wished to make any representations on our investigators view. I 
also think its reasonable to say Omni Capital must be aware that the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision and so the time for putting forward any further views 
has now ended. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that Mrs S was entitled to make a claim 
under S75 to Omni Capital for the breach of contract that arose from the poor and 
incomplete work carried out in her bathroom. Im upholding her claim and asking Omni 
Capital to put things right for Mrs S.
Putting things right
Mrs S has obtained two quotes for refitting the bathroom to make it usable. I am asking 
Omni Capital to select one of those quotes and arrange for the remedial work to be 
undertaken at no cost to Mrs S. However, its possible that, due to the passage of time, 
these quotes have now expired, and new ones will need to be obtained. If that is the case, 
then Mrs S will need to arrange two new quotes from those two plumbers and send them to 
Omni Capital for it to select which quote to accept. It should then arrange for that work to be 
undertaken. If the cost of repair has increased then I think its fair for Omni Capital to cover 
that, as the delay in settling this matter is likely to have resulted in changes in the original 
costs that were provided.
As the original tiles bought by Mrs S were badly fitted by the retailer these will need 
replacing, Omni Capital should reimburse this cost to Mrs S once a receipt for this purchase 
has been produced. 
Finally, Mrs S first raised her claim in May 2019 with Omni Capital. Due to its handling of the 
matter she has been without a bathroom she could use for over two years. She has suffered 
significant distress and inconvenience due to the way her claim was handled by Omni 
Capital and I think compensation in these circumstances is fair and reasonable. Looking at 
the impact this has had, and at the length of time this has taken, I agree with our investigator 
that £1,000 as compensation is fair, I think Omni Capital should have been far more 
proactive in seeking a resolution for Mrs S and I dont think it acted fairly when it rejected the 
quotes she provided as that only added further delay. I also dont think Omni Capital 
communicated effectively adding to Mrs Ss feelings of frustration and distress. So, Im 
asking Omni Capital to pay that amount to Mrs S.
My final decision
As set out above Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I am asking Omni Capital to do the 
following:
Select one of the two quotes provided by Mrs S and arrange for the remedial work to 
be undertaken at no cost to Mrs S.
If these two quotes have now expired, then Mrs S will need to arrange for updated 
ones to be provided and send those to Omni Capital who will need to select one as 
above, and arrange for the remedial work to be undertaken at no cost to Mrs S.To reimburse Mrs S the cost of the new tiles she will need to purchase to complete 
the refurbishment once a receipt has been received.
Pay Mrs S £1,000 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused to her by the handling of her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2nd November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman