DRN-2746488
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs R (the complainants) say the initial advice fee applied by 1825 Financial 
Planning And Advice Limited (1825) for the Financial Planning Report (FPR) it prepared 
for them in 2019 should be voided. They say 1825 misrepresented information on fees 
(ongoing charges) at the time they signed the agreement for its service and that, but for the 
misrepresentation, they would not have engaged its service.
What happened
1825 disputes the complaint and it shared with this service its record of contact and work for 
the complainants, mainly as follows:
It first met the complainants, without charge, in October 2018. Thereafter a second 
meeting was held in February 2019, during which they signed its Client Acceptance 
Agreement (CAA).
Its first FPR for the complainants was produced in April 2019. It says because they 
were unhappy with applicable ongoing charges a second FPR was issued in May 
2019, without extra charge; that this sought to address their concern about ongoing 
charges; and that, upon further discussion, a third FPR was prepared for the same 
purpose.
It says it maintained communications with the complainants throughout, between the 
second meeting and the FPR(s) and thereafter into August 2019 when its invoice 
was issued to them, when they confirmed they would not be proceeding with the 
recommendations in the FPR as they had found an alternative elsewhere with 
cheaper fees/charges and around when the dispute over payment of its initial advice 
fee arose.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She noted as follows:
That 1825 had discounted £100 from the initial advice fee of £5,850.
That the relevant fees were the 1.5% initial advice fee (which equated to £5,850) and 
the estimated ongoing charge of 0.79%  both of which were expressly stated in the 
CAA  and then the fund charge of 0.31% and the platform charge of 0.29% which 
were not stated in the CAA but were stated in the FPR.
That the complainants case is about the fund and platform charges; that they say 
they were surprised by them because these charges had not previously been brought 
to their attention; but that 1825 claims the opposite and says all charges were 
discussed with the complainants.
That the brochure and Charges document issued to the complainants by 1825 at the 
time of signing the CAA referred to the possibility of such additional charges and of 
fund and platform charges; and that fund and platform charges are common in terms 
of reflecting the costs of investment funds and of the platforms used for investments.
That there was no evidence of the complainants being aware of alternative fees until 
after 1825s advice to them and call note evidence shows that it is in August 2019 
that they confirmed their decision not to proceed with 1825 because they had found 
lower fees elsewhere.
That, ultimately, the dispute is about the initial advice fee; the CAA terms made clear 
to the complainants that this fee [expressly stated at the rate of 1.5% and at the 
amount of £5,850] would be payable even if they did not proceed with 1825s advice; 
and 1825 performed work to account for this fee, so she could not agree with the 
complainants claim that it should be waived.
The complainants disagreed with this outcome. They maintained that the platform and fund 
fees were not discussed until after the FPR was issued, that they were misled, on fees, up to 
that point and that they consider such conduct to be deceptive behaviour by 1825 which 
justifies nullification of the initial advice fee. In response to comments made by the 
investigator, they said references to additional fees in the brochure and Charges document, 
which they acknowledge receiving at the first meeting, were unclear and/or unreasonably 
hidden in small print; that, contrary to 1825s claim, they have no recollection of the 
additional fees being discussed; and that their displeasure with the fees predated August 
2019 as there is email evidence of them expressing such displeasure in April 2019 in 
response to the FPR and they started to research into alternatives at the same time.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold the complaint. I understand the claim the complainants have made. 
However, overall and on balance, I consider that the facts relevant to the legitimacy of the 
initial advice fee are relatively straightforward and do not extend to the components of the 
claim they have made. 
I have not reached this conclusion on unreasonably simplistic terms. I am acutely mindful 
that there could indeed be an arguable and, depending on the facts and strength of 
evidence, potentially legitimate case to say that a partys misrepresentation within or leading 
to a contractual agreement could render the agreement void. However, I do not consider that 
the complainants have established such misrepresentation by 1825, so the surviving matter 
is that of the contractual term to pay the initial advice fee  which, like the investigator, I am 
not persuaded should be nullified.
The complainants case for misrepresentation rests heavily on what was in and was not in 
the CAA they read, agreed and signed in February 2019. A prominent sub-section of the 
CAA was entitled Paying for our services and the first sentence that followed said  
Your personalised Suitability Report will confirm our recommendations, the scope of our 
service, the value of your assets and the charges to be paid. An estimation of charges, 
based on the information you provided to us during your meeting with your financial planner, 
is shown in the table below. Your actual charges will be based on the asset values at the 
time the charge is taken.
The table mentioned in the quote above contained information about the initial advice fee (of 
1.5% and stated in the amount of £5,850) and the ongoing charge only. The rest of the CAA 
included the following undertaking made by the complainants  
We [the complainants] accept that we will be responsible for paying to 1825 the financial 
planning charges set out in our personalised Suitability Report regardless of whether we 
proceed with 1825s recommendation or not. [my emphasis]The complainants accept that they received the relevant brochure and Charges document at 
the first meeting, and part of their undertakings in signing the CAA was that they had read 
and understood this document. The document included a reasonably prominent subsection 
(on page 6) headed Our typical charges for ongoing financial planning and within it was the 
following sentence  
Product and provider charges will be payable in addition to the above. Well fully explain 
them to you before proceeding.
This is not the small print the complainants have criticised. That, at the footnote of the same 
page, said  
This is an example of our ongoing advice charges, for illustrative purposes only, and does 
not take into account product or provider charges.
I have relied on the prominent notice  not the footnote  which makes reasonably clear that 
additional charges for the investment product (that is, charges applied by the relevant 
investment fund) and for the provider (which would have applied to charges from the 
investment platform provider) will be payable and were yet to be set out. This was broadly 
comparable to the message in the CAA which said the CAA contained only estimations and 
that actual fees/charges will be addressed later.
The above were within the terms on which the complainants contracted with 1825 and 
signed the CAA. Overall, on balance and based on the aforementioned evidence, I am 
satisfied that the future addition of further charges for the investment product/fund and 
investment platform were neither concealed from the complainants nor misrepresented to 
them.
In the absence of such misrepresentation, the term expressly agreed by the complainants 
making it their responsibility to pay 1825s financial planning fees  that is, essentially, its 
initial advice fee which was explicitly declared and agreed at the outset  irrespective of 
whether (or not) its recommendation was followed should and does apply without limitation. 
Like the investigator, I am satisfied that 1825 conducted work that justified the fee. 
Production of the FPR (and the work leading to that and beyond that) was such work and 
1825 could argue that, overall, it conducted work that more than justified the fee. I consider 
that there are no reasonable grounds to conclude that the initial advice fee should be 
nullified. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint by Mr F and Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman