The complaint
Mr M complains that he tried to withdraw money from a cash machine but that none was 
dispensed. Nationwide Building Society has nevertheless debited his account and refuses to 
refund the money.
What happened
Mr M explained that he tried to withdraw £450 at a cash machine. The cash 
machine showed a message saying he could withdraw £460 or £440, and he selected the 
latter. He waited for several minutes, but no cash was dispensed. When he returned to his 
car, parked nearby, he checked his account on his mobile phone and saw that it had been 
debited with the £440. Mr M says he spoke with someone else using the cashpoint and they 
also reported having difficulties. 
Mr M reported what had happened to the building society. It looked at the cash machine 
records but concluded that the machine had been operating correctly and had dispensed 
£440 as Mr M had requested.   
Mr M referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators looked at what had 
happened. She agreed with Nationwide, however, that the evidence indicated that the cash 
had been correctly dispensed. She didn't recommend that Nationwide adjust Mr M's account.
Mr M didn't accept the investigator's findings, however, and asked that an ombudsman 
review them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
In bringing this complaint, Mr M has explained that he had to borrow money from family and 
has discussed his overall financial position and his health. He's also said that Nationwide's 
account of discussions about the complaint is inaccurate. I am of course sympathetic, but 
the main issue I have to consider here is a fairly straightforward one - namely, whether or not 
the cash machine dispensed the £440 correctly.
Mr M says that he waited several minutes before concluding that the machine was faulty and 
wasn't going to provide him with the cash. The cash machine's own records indicate 
however that he initiated the withdrawal at 11.28am, by entering his card and PIN. Those 
records also show how - with timings to the second - that transaction unfolded. The notes - 
DRN-1948107twenty-two £20 notes - were stacked at 11.29.01am and presented by the machine and 
removed from it within eight seconds. The next transaction began almost immediately. 
Mr M's own recollection of events therefore differs significantly from the electronic records of 
the cash machine. He says he waited three or four minutes before leaving the machine and 
that there was nobody near it when he used it. The machine's records suggest however that 
he was at the machine for little more than a minute and that someone used it immediately 
after he did. That person must have been waiting to use it or must have arrived as soon as 
Mr M left.
Had Mr M left the money in the machine, it would have been retrieved and directed to a 
purge bin where it could be collected and the cash reconciled. Most cash machines also 
record when that happens, so that retrieved notes can be easily linked to specific 
transactions and account adjustments made. The cash machine records don't however 
suggest that any cash was retrieved or that there was any discrepancy which might be 
accounted for by an error in Mr M's withdrawal. Nor is there any indication of any problems 
suffered by other people who used the same cash machine on the same day.
For these reasons, I'm satisfied that the cash machine did correctly dispense the £440 Mr M 
had requested. It may be that he didn't collect it, although the timings suggest he didn't wait 
as long as he says he did. But, even if someone else did collect the money, I don't believe 
that's because of any error on Nationwide's part, and it wouldn't be fair to require it to make 
a refund.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Nationwide Building Society to take any further steps 
to resolve Mr M's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman