DRN-3866418
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 2 June 2019, Mrs Ps credit card was opened by Tesco with an initial credit limit of 
£1,500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mrs P complained to Tesco to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
because it wasnt affordable and that Tesco ought to have made a better effort to 
understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Ps complaint is that Tesco made credit available that was unaffordable. Tesco has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Mrs P provided at the time of application to 
assess affordability, including her income. They said they carried out a credit search in Mrs 
Ps name to assess Mrs Ps level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Tesco decided 
to agree to the credit limit of £1,500. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the 
time of the lending decision.
The Tesco checks showed that Mrs P had a relatively modest amount of other borrowings 
compared to her declared income. And the credit check that Tesco performed showed that 
Mrs Ps credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean 
that Mrs Ps management of her existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults 
or any late payments and there was no adverse information on the card within the previous 
year. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made, 
Mrs P was affording her existing credit. And so, Tesco were not put on notice of any reason 
not to agree the lending from that. 
And I have had regard for the information that Mrs P sent us including her full credit file, 
which supports the information that Tesco sourced at the time it made the lending decision 
in 2019. I can see that the credit report shows signs of financial difficulty more recently than 
2019. But it was clean at the time Tesco made its lending decision. I have to look at the 
information that was available, or could have been available, to Tesco at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Tesco acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mrs 
Ps financial situation or would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they 
were offering was unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Tesco provided to Mrs P was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman