DRN-3098997
The complaint
Mr B complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) didnt advise him of the date his payments would 
be made prior to him entering into a fixed-sum credit agreement and that it gave him 
misleading information about changing his payment date.
What happened
Mr B bought an Xbox All Access package online. The online retailer presented an option to 
pay monthly using a fixed-sum credit agreement with Klarna.
On the same day the purchase was made, Mr B contacted Klarnas customer service team 
through its online chat function to enquire about changing his payment date. Klarnas agent 
told him that as the order hadnt been confirmed by the retailer yet, he should get back in 
touch once itd been confirmed to change his payment date.
Mr B contacted Klarna again the next day but was told that the payment date could not be 
changed. Unhappy with this, he raised a complaint. Klarnas response to the complaint was 
that payment dates could not be changed for its fixed-sum credit products, but that it would 
feed back to the relevant team to identify where any possible improvements could be made.
Mr B remained dissatisfied with Klarnas response and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the issues and said Klarna hadnt acted fairly or 
provided good customer service and that this had caused Mr B some worry. She 
recommended Klarna compensate Mr B for the impact the poor service had had on him.
Klarna didnt agree. It said whilst it accepted it had provided Mr B with unclear and 
potentially misleading information the first time he used the webchat, the impact of this 
lasted less than 24 hours as the correct information was given to Mr B the next day.
Because Klarna disagreed with our investigators recommendations, the complaint has come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Klarnas agent gave Mr B misleading information on 21 April 2021. 
Mr B was told: you can contact us back, if you would like to make changes to scheduled 
payment for any particular month/s. I think this wouldve given Mr B some temporary 
reassurance that he could get back in touch and change the payment date for his direct 
debit. When he then wasnt able to do that, I think this caused Mr B considerable 
disappointment and a loss of reasonable expectation. Mr Bs frustration is evident from the 
transcript of his chat with Klarna the next day, when he explains, after being told he cant 
change the date: Thats not what they said yesterday. Every single payment will fail if its on 
the 5th and when he says Cant believe you can set up a direct debit not tell me the date 
and then not let me change it. He also asks Show me where it says the direct debit date 
cant be changed and Where is it stated BEFORE I signed up that the direct debit is set 
and cant be changed.
Klarnas agent then says the information wouldve been on the terms and conditions shared 
with Mr B before he signed up. But this isnt correct, so Mr B was given the wrong 
information the next day on 22 April 2021 also. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and 
these dont refer to the payment date being the 5th of the month or the fact it cant be 
changed.
Klarna says the merchants website makes clear that payments would be taken on the 5th of 
the month. But, having taken a closer look, I can see that this information is set out under 
several drop-down options on the FAQs page, so it wouldnt be immediately clear to a 
customer when their payments would be taken prior to entering into the agreement. Instead, 
Mr B would have needed to search the website and read the FAQs to find this out. 
I dont think that would be unreasonable in situations where a payment date could be 
changed. But if it couldnt be changed as in Mr Bs case, I wouldve expected to see the 
payment information more clearly highlighted or specifically brought to Mr Bs attention. 
None of the information during the checkout process suggests that payment dates cant be 
changed  and I dont think its unreasonable for Mr B to have assumed he could change the 
payment date, as many finance providers allow for this to be done. So I dont think its 
accurate for Klarna to say Mr B was advised during the check-out flow that his payments 
would be taken on the 5th of the month, as this implies the information would have been set 
out clearly during the check-out process. It was not  it was set out under the FAQs only.
I think in light of the above, the information around payment dates being fixed couldve been 
made clearer to Mr B, and whilst I think the lack of clarity may not have affected other 
customers in the way it affected Mr B, I have to consider the impact on Mr B specifically 
here.
As Ive mentioned, I can see from the content of the online chat that Mr B was becoming 
increasingly frustrated. Mr B has explained that the situation has caused him significant 
problems. Not only was he online for hours trying to rectify the issue regarding his payment 
dates, but he was also inconvenienced by not being informed clearly early on in the process 
that dates could not be changed. This caused him worry and inconvenience because when 
he found out the payment date would be the 5th of the month and could not be changed, he 
realised his payments would likely fail and that his finances would be affected by this. He 
also tried to cancel the purchase but was told hed need to contact the merchant. This isnt 
unreasonable but will have added to the inconvenience Mr B experienced overall.
Mr B has pointed out that all the information after the basket section during the purchase 
process was information from Klarna and that it should have pointed out the payment dates 
within that information, prior to Mr B entering the agreement. I appreciate this information is 
on the merchants website and so its the merchants responsibility, but Ive also considered 
that Klarna provided a terms and conditions document to Mr B which didnt refer to any of 
the fact that payments would be fixed and taken on the 5th of the month.
Ive carefully considered what Klarna has said about the time period in which this all 
happened  and why it thinks that means compensation isnt warranted in this case. But I 
dont think the level of worry Mr B has been caused extends only to the period of 24 hours 
during which he was communicating with Klarna representatives through its online chat 
function. I think, from what Mr B has said, that hes continued to worry following the online 
chats, because he was then in a position where he thought his payments would fail. I can 
understand how this wouldve caused Mr B stress over a period of days and weeks, not just over 24 hours, because the lack of clarity regarding payment dates has meant hes had to 
worry about making sure he has enough money available throughout the month so as not to 
miss a payment. 
So, because of the repeated small errors in this case and the impact these had on Mr B, 
causing him stress over several hours while he tried to sort out the problem and further 
stress over the subsequent days and weeks as he tried to manage his finances to account 
for the initial lack of clarity, I think the level of compensation recommended is fair and 
reasonable in this case.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Klarna Bank AB (publ) to pay Mr B £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman