DRN-3418914
The complaint
Miss Q complains that a car acquired with finance from Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss Q was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage. At the point of supply the car was around 12 years old and had covered 
around 94,000 miles. The cash price of the car was £5700 with Miss Q paying a deposit of 
£2000 and financing the balance over 24 months.
Within a few weeks of getting the car, Miss Q experienced black smoke coming from the 
exhaust. She reported the issue to the dealership, who agreed to look into it. The dealership 
found an issue with the ignition and returned the car to Miss Q, but she continued to 
experience issues with black smoke.
Miss Q returned the car to the dealership again in October 2020 but the issue with the black 
smoke wasnt resolved. Miss Q tried to speak to the dealership again but communication 
had broken down.
Miss Q arranged for the car to be inspected in February 2021. The engineer identified issues 
with the exhaust, smoke vapour from the DPF, oil leakages, throttle valve and cam leaking 
and a fault with the oil level sensor. Miss Q says the engineer told her the car was 
dangerous and that she shouldnt drive it until repairs were carried out.
Miss Q showed the engineers report to the dealership and the car was returned for repairs. 
The car remained with the dealership for around 5 weeks. When the car was returned to 
Miss Q, it juddered and the engine management light illuminated. The car broke down in 
June 2021.
Miss Q raised a complaint with Advantage. It arranged an independent inspection of the car 
in July 2021. Based on the findings of the engineer, Advantage issued a final response to 
Miss Q and said it wasnt upholding her complaint about the quality of the car. 
Miss Q wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss Q didnt agree. She said the inspection report she had obtained said the car needed 
repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable,, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their 
general state and condition, as well as other things including fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car, such as that supplied to Miss Q, to have a degree of wear 
and tear and to require more repairs and maintenance than a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this company, I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply because of an inherent fault.
Ive taken account of what Miss Q has said about the issues she experienced with the car. 
Based on this and taking into account the fact that the car broke down in June 2021, Im 
satisfied that the car had a fault. But I need to be satisfied that the fault which caused the car 
to break down was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all of the engineering evidence. The independent inspection of the car, which 
took place in July 2021, soon after the car had broken down, found that the engine had been 
stripped prior to the inspection and that the camshaft cover and EGR valve had been 
removed. It also found evidence of oil leakage and a snapped bolt thread to the cylinder 
head. The engineer was unable to start the car and reported that the engine had seized. The 
engineer said that because the car had covered 7000 since the point of supply, the no 
starting issue would not have been present at the point of supply. The engineer also said 
that the oil seepage, whilst likely to have been developing at the point of supply, was due to 
normal usage of the car and wouldnt have made it of unsatisfactory quality.
Based on what Ive seen in the independent inspection report, theres no evidence to 
suggest that the car broke down as a result of any of the issues complained about by Miss 
Q.
Miss Q has said that the car was returned to the dealership several times during the first few 
months of the point of supply with an issue of black smoke coming from the exhaust. I 
havent seen any job sheets or other information from the dealership, so I cant be certain of 
what issues (if any) were found, or what repairs were carried out.
I can see that Miss Q obtained a report on the car in February 2021 which lists a number of 
issues with the car. However, theres nothing in that report which says that the issues would 
have been present at the point of supply. And because these issues were identified outside 
of the first 6 months of the agreement, under the relevant legislation, its up to Miss Q to 
show that the faults were present at the point of supply. The report isnt enough evidence to 
show that the faults were present at the point of supply.
Ive had regard to all of the evidence. However, there isnt enough to persuade me that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive also had regard to the fact that the car passed a MOT in April 202, and again in June 
2021. If there had been a  fault at the point of supply, I think its likely that this wouldve been 
apparent at MOT.
Ive taken account of the mileage covered by Miss Q since the point of sale until the car 
broke down, which was around 7000 miles. If the car had been faulty at the point of supply, I 
dont think Miss Q would have been able to cover this level of mileage.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. So I wont be asking Advantage to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman