DRN-3864928
The complaint and what happened
Ms L complains Barclays Bank UK Plc wont reimburse money she says she lost to an 
investment scam. 
She came across an advert on-line, completed a form and was contacted by a broker 
offering an investment opportunity. Her payments were to be made by via a legitimate 
crypto-currency exchange MoonPay. Between November 2020 and December 2020, Ms L 
invested £3,003. 
Ms L asked for payments to be returned after mistakenly making four payments in one day 
when she only meant to make two. She also thought she might be being scammed as the 
business she was invested with stopped contacting her, But she made two further payments 
via MoonPay in December 2020. Ms L complained to Barclays, but it isnt clear whether she 
ever received a response. 
Our investigator ultimately concluded Barclays didnt do anything wrong. Although the bank 
had checked to see if the first payment was genuine, he was satisfied that was a sufficient 
intervention given the amount. Ms Ls representative disagrees and consider Barclays 
normal practice would be to ask more questions to get the to bottom of what was happening, 
and as it didnt do that here, it considers it didnt do enough to protect its customer. 
The matter has been referred to me for review and determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Under banking regulations and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rest with the payer  Ms L  even where they have 
been tricked into making those payments. Im satisfied Ms L authorised the 
transactions even if she mistakenly made four in one day when she only intended to 
make two. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as a reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
But that duty doesnt extend to protecting customers against poor investment 
choices. Ms L says the business that contacted her was Paragon Finance Trading, 
but she hasnt been able to provide any evidence  emails, messages etc  to 
support that. And I can find no independent evidence this business is operating a 
scam. So its far from certain Ms L has lost her money to scam rather than through a 
high-risk investment. 
Even if I accept it was a scam, Im not persuaded Barclays ought to have done any 
more than it did. The amounts in question  whilst possibly slightly higher than other 
transactions  arent so high that I would expect a bank to be concerned about them, 
even if there are more than one in a day. And before making the payments, it 
appears Ms L transferred money in from elsewhere to facilitate them. 
I am aware that Barclays paused the first payment of £321.75.  This was pending 
confirmation from Ms L that it was her making the transaction. I have listened the call 
she had with Barclays where she confirms it is her and so the payment was allowed 
to proceed. Given the amount, and that it was going to a legitimate merchant, Im not 
persuaded Barclays ought to have been alert to Ms L falling victim to a scam or that it 
should have questioned her more about the payment or any others made that day or 
later.
Ms L tried to dispute the transactions made in November as she had made more 
than she intended. And when speaking with Barclays she did indicate that she was 
concerned as Paragon had stopped communicating with her. However, following that 
two further card payments were made via MoonPay in December, although it isnt 
entirely clear why, given her own misgivings.  
Barclays did attempt to chargeback one of the transactions made in November. But 
this was defended as MoonPay had provided the service requested  transferring fiat 
money into crypto currency and then forwarding it on to the selected wallet. Im 
satisfied it did more than was expected here, given there was no prospect of 
success. 
I understand Ms L has lost money. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which 
she finds herself, I dont find Barclays did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman