DRN-3959098
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC havent refunded his money that he transferred by 
mistake to an incorrect account with another bank.
What happened
Mr F set up a payment transfer for an amount but entered the incorrect account to send the 
money to. When Mr F realised his mistake, he contacted Lloyds and it said it would deal with 
this through its fund recoveries area.
When Mr F was updated by Lloyds it said his case was now closed. The recipient bank didnt 
respond so Mr Fs claim was unsuccessful. Mr F remained unhappy and brought a complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she understood how frustrating this 
would have been for Mr F. But she noted Lloyds had followed its internal policy and account 
terms and conditions when it tried to recover the money. Our investigator said Mr F ought to 
get in contact with the person he did send the money to as they would only need to fill out a 
form to arrange a return of the funds. Mr F confirmed he had last paid the account he 
mistakenly paid this time back in 2016 for some work to his car.
Mr F remained unhappy and asked for his case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said when customers make a payment online they are shown a summary of their 
payment prior to confirming their transaction. This includes the amount to be paid and the 
receiving account details. Customers then have to check all the information is correct before 
requesting the funds to be debited from their account.
And in terms of trying to get the money back for Mr F Lloyds said At that stage, the Bank 
determined the bank had taken the correct action in completing a bill payment in error and 
attempting to recall the money on a best endeavours basis. So, I think Lloyds acted 
reasonably in contacting the recipient bank and trying to reclaim the money.
Lloyds terms and conditions say if a payment goes to the wrong person or is delayed 
because you gave us incorrect details, we won't refund you. We'll try to recover the payment 
for you, but may charge reasonable costs for doing this.
Mr F made the transfer request and the bank followed his instructions. When he told Lloyds 
there was a problem it made reasonable efforts to get matters put right. Lloyds said there 
was no error made by it in dealing with Mr Fs transfer request. I think Lloyds followed its 
process and account terms. Lloyds acted fairly in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman