DRN-2833209
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) didnt update his address 
after he contacted them about this on several occasions. 
 
What happened
Mr B says that he moved to a new house in July 2020 and informed First Direct by telephone 
to amend his contact details so that correspondence would be sent to the correct address. 
However, he has told us that correspondence was sent to his old address in August, so he 
called First Direct again to change it. He says he escalated the matter, but the problem still 
hadnt been remedied as late as November.
 
Therefore, Mr B raised a complaint and was told that they checked the address. But further 
correspondence was still being sent to the incorrect place. He says in early January 2021 he 
noticed his online bank statements were still showing his old address. So, he called again to 
complain.
 
First Direct responded to Mr Bs complaint in February 2021. They accepted that Mr B had 
called to update them about his address and that they failed to ensure all future 
correspondence would be sent to there. Also, that the issue hadnt been corrected when Mr 
B called again. They offered £100 to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. During the investigation, First Direct 
increased their offer to £250. The investigator felt that First Direct should have ensured 
correspondence was sent to Mr Bs new address. But that the offer of £250 appropriately 
recognised the impact. Mr B didnt accept the view. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct accept they didnt correctly update the address on their systems after being 
informed and that correspondence was sent to the old address. I agree that they should 
have made sure the address was updated and correspondence was sent to the correct 
address. Also, they should have corrected the error promptly. Therefore, First Direct should 
put things right. 
 
Putting things right
I fully appreciate Mr Bs concerns about his personal information and can understand why he 
is so concerned that First Direct havent acted reasonably. I can also understand why he 
remains concerned that someone will or has used this information fraudulently. But Ive not 
seen evidence to persuade me that this has happened or First Direct have caused Mr B a 
financial loss. 
In addition to these worries Mr B spent his own time making trips to his old address to 
retrieve any post and making several calls to First Direct to try and resolve the issue. I also 
note his frustration was exacerbated when he found the problem still arose after he was told 
it had been resolved. 
Mr B has explained why he believes he should receive a larger sum and has set out his 
reasons. But we wouldnt take into account First Directs commercial earnings or try to 
penalise them. It is my role to consider the impact to Mr B and decide what I think 
appropriately recognises this. I want to assure Mr B that Ive thought carefully about this. 
Having done so, Im satisfied First Directs offer of £250 is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint and HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First 
Direct) should pay Mr B a total of £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman