DRN-3185215
Complaint
Miss A and Mr K has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued 
applying charges to their overdraft when they were in financial difficulty, which caused them 
financial hardship.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Miss A and Mr Ks overdraft had become unsustainable for them by August 2015 and so 
it shouldnt have added the charges it did from this point onwards. So it needed to refund all 
the interest, fees and charges it added to Miss A and Mr Ks account from this point.
 
HSBC disagreed with our adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Miss A and Mr Ks overdraft 
from August 2015. By this point, it was evident that Miss A and Mr Ks overdraft had become 
unsustainable for them and that continuing to provide it was likely to cause significant 
adverse consequences. 
A cursory look at Miss A and Mr Ks statements leading up to this period shows that they 
were reliant on in to try and make ends meet and even then they were regularly exceeding 
their limit. Ive seen HSBCs argument that Miss A and Mr K could have repaid the overdraft 
with better account management. But it ought to have been apparent that this better account 
management wasnt happening and was unlikely to happen going forward. 
HSBCs has argued that financial difficulties is not evident until such time as the customer 
tells us that they are in financial difficulty and that they need support, or they spend an 
extended period of time outside of their overdraft limit. But this is simply untrue and its very 
disappointing to see HSBC making such spurious arguments which have no basis in fact 
and completely ignore its obligations.
I accept the situations described accept may be when a lender might no longer prepared to 
take a credit risk in relation to an existing borrower. But I would refer HSBC to the regulators 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). And in particular section 1.3 which contains 
guidance on financial difficulty and more specifically what the regulator considers to be 
potential indicators that a borrower may be experiencing financial difficulty. This section 
shows that financial difficulty is far wider than simply being unable to make payments to an 
agreement. 
Equally, the good industry practice  such as the Lending Code - which was in place at the 
time and which HSBC subscribed to, clearly stated that that hardcore borrowing was a 
potential indicator of difficulty.  
So overall by August 2015, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Miss A and Mr K 
were unlikely to be able to sustainably repay their overdraft and should have stopped 
providing it on the same terms. It should have instead treated Miss A and Mr K with 
forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Miss A and Mr K werent using their 
overdraft as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become 
unsustainable shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react 
to Miss A and Mr Ks overdraft and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss A and Mr K ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft at 
a time when they were already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Miss A and Mr K lost 
out because of what HSBC did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss A and Mr K
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss A and Mr Ks complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss A and Mr Ks current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from August 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss A and Mr K to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss A and Mr Ks credit file, it should reflect what would have 
been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the 
account from August 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss A and Mr K along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, HSBC should remove any adverse information from Miss A and Mr Ks 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss A and Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss A and Mr Ks complaint. HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman