DRN-2411389
The complaint
Mr G, represented by Mrs G, complains about the service hes received from Cofunds
Limited. Hes unhappy that the loyalty bonuses for some of his investments have been
repeatedly paid late and hes also unhappy with changes that have been made to the unit
rebate payment that he receives.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Gs complaint and set out the background as follows:
Mr G holds two investments which are administered by Cofunds  the L&G UK Select Equity
A Fund and the L&G Mixed Investment 40 - 85% R Fund. The loyalty bonuses for both
investments were due in January 2019 but werent paid on time. Mr G complained to
Cofunds who upheld his complaint. They apologised for the error, explained when the
bonuses would be paid and offered Mr G £100 in compensation for the trouble and upset
caused by their errors.
There was further correspondence between Cofunds and Mr G over the next few months.
Cofunds clarified that the bonuses had been paid and that the amounts were correct. Mr G
also raised concerns about the unit rebates that he received on both investments, he was
unhappy that they were now being paid every two months instead of every month. Cofunds
explained how theyd calculated the bonus amounts and said that the decision to change the
frequency of the unit rebate was made by the fund manager and Mr G should contact them
with any queries.
Mr G wasnt happy with their response so he brought his complaint to this service.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr G has had a number of issues with the service hes received from Cofunds.
But having looked at all the evidence, I think the compensation offered by Cofunds is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
From what Ive seen, Mr G has undoubtably been caused inconvenience by the numerous
errors that have happened with the payment of his annual loyalty bonus. Mr G also felt there
was confusion caused by the attempt to explain the reason behind the changes to the rebate
payment. Cofunds upheld Mr Gs complaint about the service he received and I think they
were right to do so. What I therefore need to decide is if the compensation Cofunds have
offered is fair.
I think a key point to note is that some of the errors made by Cofunds have benefitted Mr G 
hes been overpaid loyalty bonuses of around £870. So looking at this as a whole, while
Cofunds have made errors which have caused Mr G inconvenience, theyve also made
errors which hes profited from.
I can see that both loyalty payments were made earlier this year without any issues and Mr
G has been provided with an explanation behind the changes to the unit rebate. Cofunds
have apologised for their errors and offered £100 compensation which I think is fair. 
Particularly in a case such as this, where errors by Cofunds have benefited Mr G by around
£870.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G responded and said he didnt have anything to add. Cofunds responded and said that 
they also didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments from either party, my views remain as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman