DRN-3624741
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do more to trace and recover €30,000 he was 
tricked into sending to one of its customers accounts.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in full 
here. 
In November 2018, Mr A transferred a sum of €30,000 from his bank in France to a 
third-party account held with HSBC. At the time he believed the payment was towards a 
property related investment and the account hed transferred the money to was in his name. 
When Mr A realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam, he reported the matter to his own 
bank and the Police. Mr A says after exhausting these avenues he contacted HSBC directly 
asking for its help in recovering his funds. HSBC referred Mr A back to his own bank and 
shared with him Action Frauds details. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr A asked our service to look into things for him. Our 
Investigator thought there were limits as to how much of Mr As complaint we could consider. 
And for what we could consider, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A remains dissatisfied. He holds HSBC responsible, as it facilitated the transfer of his 
money to a scammer. He feels strongly that HSBC should trace and return his money. He 
says he would like to pursue the matter further as the sum lost is significant to him, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.  
I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained the limits on which parts of Mr As 
complaint I can consider and why. In summary I said the relationship under which Mr A is 
considered an eligible complainant only permits our service to investigate and make a 
determination in relation to acts or omissions that took place on or after 31 January 2019. 
Specifically, this meant my consideration was limited to HSBCs response when Mr A 
notified it that hed been tricked into sending €30,000 to one of its customers accounts.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with 
this outcome, but Ill explain why. 
Ive not seen any evidence that HSBC were notified by Mr As bank about there being a 
problem with his payment. Mr A reported the matter directly to HSBC in 2020  almost two 
years after hed made the payment. HSBC told Mr A that he would need to contact his own 
bank for assistance. This is the correct authorised push payment (APP) fraud reporting 
process. HSBC provided Mr A with Action Frauds contact details  who are the UK national 
reporting centre for fraud and cybercrime. So in these circumstances I dont think HSBCs 
response to Mr As notification of APP was unreasonable. Im also satisfied Mr As funds 
were all paid away from the beneficiary account, long before Mr A contacted HSBC  so I 
cant say that when Mr A contacted HSBC, it missed an opportunity to recover his funds from 
the beneficiary account. 
I understand Mr A would like HSBC to trace and recover his money, as well as provide him 
with details of where it was sent  but there is no obligation, nor a requirement, on HSBC to 
do so. 
Im truly sorry to hear about the situation that Mr A has found himself in, and I can, of course, 
appreciate the sum lost is significant and he wants to do all he can to try and recover his 
money. But Im satisfied HSBC responded appropriately and in line with its regulatory 
obligations to Mr As notification of fraud. And it cant reasonably be held liable for funds not 
being returned. So it follows that I cant fairly ask it to do more to resolve this complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman