DRN-3632498
The complaint
Miss D complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifaxs actions after she was a 
victim of fraud.
What happened
Miss D has an account with Halifax. In June 2021 Miss D sold a car and received payment 
from the buyer into her Halifax account. But the transfer notation was for a watch, not a car, 
and the buyer went on to say they hadnt received it. Miss Ds account was blocked and a 
fraud investigation was set up. The funds were refunded to the buyer. 
Halifax asked Miss D to attend a branch with information supporting her claim that a car was 
sold. Miss Ds explained she had to visit a branch on three occasions. 
A third party contacted Miss D as theyd purchased the car from the buyer. The car was 
ultimately returned to Miss D. 
Miss D complained and Halifax offered her £50 for the inconvenience caused and £36.60 to 
cover costs. Halifax sent a final response on 3 July 2021. Halifax confirmed the account 
block had been removed and apologised for the inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ds complaint. They thought Halifax had taken 
reasonable steps to try and protect Miss Ds account after a scam was reported. The 
investigator thought the compensation paid by Halifax was a fair way to resolve her 
complaint. Miss D asked to appeal and said Halifaxs offer didnt reflect the branch visits 
shed had to make or the inconvenience caused. As Miss D asked to appeal, her complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and 
read everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned 
something thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent 
considered it. I have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the key issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An 
approach our rules allow me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is 
intended by this approach. 
I can see the whole situation has caused Miss D a significant level of trouble and upset. But, 
in this decision I can only look at Halifaxs actions and whether it dealt with Miss D fairly. I 
think its reasonable to note that Miss D appears to have been the victim of a scam and I 
understand the process of having her account blocked and refunding the payment received 
was distressing. Ive considered whether Halifax handled the situation fairly. 
When Halifax was contacted regarding the buyer, it had to investigate their claim. I can see 
the transfer notation was for a watch. The buyer told Halifax they hadnt received the item 
purchased and the fraud investigation was set up. That involved putting a block in place 
which meant Miss D couldnt use her account. I appreciate Miss D acted in good faith 
throughout and that she was a victim. But to establish that, Halifax had to investigate. And it 
had applied an account block, in line with the terms and conditions, whilst that process was 
completed. Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but Im satisfied Halifax acted reasonably. 
The payment was refunded to the buyer. I know Miss D thinks the refund was premature and 
unreasonable. But I have to factor in that the car was ultimately returned to Miss D. So whilst 
I dont doubt the situation caused Miss D a significant level of inconvenience, there doesnt 
appear to be a financial loss. As the vehicle went back to Miss D, she was in broadly the 
same position as she had been before the sale. 
Miss D has told us she had to visit Halifaxs branch three times to provide evidence in 
support of her case. Halifax says it only has records of one visit. But I believe what Miss Ds 
told us and that she visited on three occasions. Miss Ds told us that visiting the branch was 
inconvenient and that she was asked to return with different information before the issue was 
dealt with. But Halifax offered Miss D £36.60 to cover costs for visiting its branch as well as 
£50 for the inconvenience caused. Accepting that Miss D did visit on three occasions as well 
as the overall circumstances of her complaint, Im satisfied the above offer fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused. So Im not telling Halifax to increase its offer. 
As Im satisfied Halifax dealt with Miss Ds complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint because Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman