DRN-1651170
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) will not refund him money he feels it 
should under the direct debit guarantee.
What happened
Mr B contacted Barclays in 2017 to request a refund under the direct debit guarantee rules. 
This was in respect of monthly direct debit payments paid between 2014 and 2017 for Club 
membership fees. Mr B said the Club had increased the amount taken on the direct debit in 
2014. But he says the Club only advised the increase in a general newsletter mailed to 
members (which he says he didnt receive) rather than a specific notice as required under 
the direct debit guarantee. Mr B wanted Barclays to refund 40 months of direct debit 
payments. 
Barclays asked for more information and then rejected Mr Bs request. It said the matter was 
a contractual dispute between Mr B and the Club rather than an error with the direct debit 
which meant the direct debit guarantee didnt apply.  Mr B complained, but Barclays didnt 
uphold his complaint. However, it refunded £100 to Mr B as a gesture of goodwill. This was 
the total amount of payments the direct debit had increased by since 2014. 
Mr B contacted Barclays again in 2019 with information he had received from Bacs Payment 
Schemes Limited (BACs - which operates the direct debit system) and again requested a 
refund. Barclays considered his request and rejected it on the same basis as before. Mr B 
made a further complaint which Barclays rejected. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into. He didnt uphold 
the complaint. He said Barclays had reached a reasonable decision based on the evidence 
available to it. 
He said the direct debit guarantee was there to provide a remedy for errors not contractual 
disputes. He said there was a contract between Mr B and his Club so any dispute about the 
amount of fees payable was a dispute about the contract between them. So, Barclays had 
been reasonable in not applying the guarantee in this case. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said BACs had confirmed the Club hadnt operated the direct debit 
properly and had taken this up with the Clubs bank. He said this showed that the dispute 
wasnt a contractual one but about the incorrect processing of the direct debit and Barclays 
was therefore wrong in not applying the guarantee.
 
As Mr B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B, but I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably or 
unfairly in deciding that the issue here is a contractual dispute rather than an error. Ill 
explain why.
When there is a refund under the direct debit guarantee the customers bank makes the 
repayment. It then claims the funds back from the other bank, who in turn debit the business. 
But if the claim has been made incorrectly the customers bank might not recover the funds. 
The bank will then want the funds back from its customer. A contractual dispute is an 
example of an incorrect claim where the guarantee doesnt apply. 
Even if such a claim was successful if the business felt the money was genuinely owed it 
might take recovery action against the customer. So, successfully claiming under the 
guarantee might not solve the customers dispute and might make it worse. 
When Barclays asked Mr B for more information about his claim in 2017 it wasnt satisfied 
that what was provided supported a claim under the guarantee. It decided that the matter 
was a contractual dispute between him and the Club. Mr B has since provided further 
background information to our service. 
Having considered this I think it is clear that there is a contractual dispute between Mr B and 
the Club over his membership and whether he had provided notice to terminate it. That 
dispute isnt something I can comment on, but I do feel it is the reason for Mr Bs claim under 
the guarantee. 
The guarantee does require the amount, or any change to the amount to be taken under the 
direct debit, to be notified in advance to the payee. Correct notice of the increase may not 
have been given in 2014, but it doesnt appear that the wrong payment was taken. And 
Barclays has reimbursed the increased amount taken between 2014 and 2017. So, I dont 
think any error in 2014 has caused Mr B any problems that havent already been corrected 
fairly and reasonably by Barclays. 
So, I think the primary issue here is one of a contractual dispute and Barclays were correct 
to reach the decision it did and not apply the guarantee in this case. As I dont think Barclays 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably, I wont be asking it to do any more than it already has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman