DRN-2805590
The complaint
Miss F complains about delays and problems experienced when trying to transfer funds from 
her HSBC UK Bank Plc ISA to another business. 
What happened
On 19 March 2020 Miss F made a transfer from her ISA but the transaction was held by 
HSBCs fraud department. Miss F spoke with the fraud department on 23 March 2020 but 
due to the quality of the line wasnt able to verify the payment. Miss F asked for someone to 
call her back but no contact was received. 
Miss F has told us she had to call HSBC at least three times before she was able to confirm 
the transfer was genuine and that she spent several hours on the phone waiting to speak 
with someone. On 1 April 2020 Miss F spoke with HSBC and it released the transfer the 
following day. 
Miss F complained and HSBC apologised for the problems she experienced. HSBC paid £30 
into Miss Fs account to try and resolve her complaint. Miss F told HSBC she didnt want the 
funds and they were ultimately taken back. Miss F continued to correspond with HSBC and it 
went on to increase the compensation offer to £75. 
Miss F referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought HSBCs offer was fair and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss F asked to appeal 
and said she had resolved the transfer issue by calling HSBC back. Miss F said the 
settlement offered by HSBC should take into account the time she spent on the phone trying 
to contact HSBC. As Miss F has asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss F spoke with HSBC on 23 March 2020 its clear she wasnt able to hear what the 
advisor was saying. Ive listened to the call in question and didnt hear any obvious problems 
with the line, but I accept that Miss F couldnt hear what was discussed. I agree HSBC 
shouldve called Miss F back as she requested following the call in question. Its clear Miss F 
needed to resolve the transfer issue before the new financial year began as well. 
Miss F has told us she made three or four long calls to HSBC to try and resolve matters, 
waiting on hold for around an hour each time. HSBC has explained the pandemic increased 
waiting times and its clear Miss Fs calls were impacted. I can understand why she is upset 
at having to wait and call back on several occasions before the matter was resolved. 
As I agree with Miss F that the service she received shouldve been better, Ive focused on 
how I think the complaint should be fairly resolved. HSBC has offered to cover Miss Fs call 
costs but she told our investigator they were negligible and hasnt sent us any further 
information about them. HSBC initially paid £30 to apologise but went on to take the funds 
back at Miss Fs request. In a follow up email HSBC increased its offer to £75. 
I can see Miss F has spent several hours dealing with this matter and that it has caused her 
some inconvenience. But I think the £75 HSBC has offered is a fair reflection of the impact 
caused by failing to receive a call back as requested and having to make a number of calls 
before the issue was fully resolved. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss F as I can see how 
strongly she feels about what happened, but Im satisfied HSBC has made an offer that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As a result, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
If Miss F decides she wishes to accept HSBCs offer she is welcome to ask our investigator 
to arrange payment with HSBC.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC has already made an offer 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman