DRN-2972564
The complaint
Mr H complains that George Banco Limited, trading as Georgebanco.com, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded, as well as any negative information 
removed from his credit file.
What happened
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from July 2021, which 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons 
why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought 
the checks that Georgebanco.com carried out went far enough and didnt suggest 
that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H.
I asked both Mr H and Georgebanco.com to let me have any more information they 
wanted me to consider. Georgebanco.com has accepted my provisional decision, 
but Mr H has explained why he doesnt accept my findings. He clearly feels strongly 
that Georgebanco.com knew there was a substantial risk of the lending being 
unsustainable for him  which is why a guarantor was needed. He also says that 
the very fact that he needed the loan at all shows that he couldnt really afford the 
repayments and was struggling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, Im not upholding it, and Ill reiterate why, but first Ive included 
here the relevant sections of my provisional decision:
background
In April 2016 Georgebanco.com approved a loan of £2,000 for Mr H, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £229 per month over a term of 12 months. The 
loan was apparently intended to consolidate debt. When assessing the application, 
Georgebanco.com asked Mr H about his financial circumstances, asked to see a pay 
slip, and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought that Georgebanco.com should 
have carried out more in-depth checks when assessing whether this loan was 
affordable for Mr H. They thought that, if it had carried out more checks, 
Georgebanco.com would have found that the lending wasnt affordable or 
sustainable. Georgebanco.com disagreed, highlighting that the information it had 
suggested this loan was sustainable for Mr H, and asked an ombudsman to look at 
his case.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently not planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Mr Hs complaint is brought by a professional representative, who say that, instead of 
lending to him, Georgebanco.com ought to have signposted Mr H to debt management 
services. Mr Hs representatives report that, as a result of this loan, Mr H was left 
unable to pay bills, accumulated debt andhad to give up [his] flat.  Needless to say, I am 
extremely sorry to hear about Mr Hs circumstances and travails. But whether those 
difficulties are as a result of Georgebanco.coms decision to lend to him in 2016 is far from 
certain.
I need to first look at what information Georgebanco.com had when considering Mr Hs 
loan application, and then what information it should have gathered, given what it 
knew about Mr H and his circumstances.
Did Georgebanco.com checks go far enough?
The regulations require potential lenders to carry out sufficient checks, proportionate to 
customer circumstances, to make sure that repayments can be made sustainably and the 
lending therefore fairly judged as affordable. Neither the extent, nor the exact content, of 
checks is prescribed.
Georgebanco.com asked Mr H about his income and expenditure. He disclosed monthly 
earnings of £4,500 and outgoings of £3,150. Beyond £650 being attributed to housing 
costs, those outgoings were not broken down any further. But the declared expenditure 
looks to be comprehensive and plausible for a married man with two dependents. So, 
based on the headlines Mr H told it about his financial situation, Georgebanco.com could 
have concluded that he was easily able to afford the monthly repayment of £228.
The pay slip Mr H provided actually showed a significantly lower income in the month in 
question  around £3,500. Arguably, even with that income, the monthly repayment was 
just about affordable. However, Georgebanco.com has highlighted that the pay slip in 
question showed cumulative, year to date, figures too, which suggested that Mr Hs 
monthly income was typically much higher than the £3,500 for the month in question. 
Therefore I dont think this necessarily flagged a need for more in-depth checks.
The credit check Georgebanco.com carried out suggested that Mr H had 10 open 
accounts at the time of the application, and that two of those accounts appeared to be in 
default and to have been passed on to debt collectors. Whilst this is a reasonably high 
number of accounts, the majority had only small balances and Mr H had been managing 
and repaying them well in the recent past (i.e. 2015 and 2016). The amount Mr H needed 
to service his debts on a monthly basis appears to sit comfortably within the expenditure 
level he had disclosed to Georgebanco.com, so that wouldnt have been a cause for 
concern.
The matter of the defaulted accounts is, of course, rather more complex. It is clear that 
these two accounts went into default almost three years before this application, therefore it 
seems that Mr H was having some difficulties at that time. I also note that he did not 
appear to be making any repayments towards those accounts  which could, of course, be 
a matter of him having been unwilling to pay, rather than unable. I cant know that.
But I cant conclude that these two defaulted accounts, in and of themselves, were 
sufficiently alarming to mean that Georgebanco.com needed to carry out more in-depth 
checks. The defaults were verging on historic; Georgebanco.com had verified Mr Hs 
income; had a substantial and plausible expenditure declaration; and was considering an 
application for a relatively modest loan over a comparatively short term.
So, in the round, and taking into account all the circumstances, I think the checks that 
Georgebanco.com completed were proportionate and suggested that Mr H was in a position to be able to sustainably repay this loan.
It therefore follows that I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Hs perspective on this, and his comment in response to the 
provisional decision, that the need for a guarantor is, in itself, a signal of problems. 
However, I dont accept that a guarantor loan can never, by definition, be sustainable for 
the borrower. Or that needing credit, even high cost credit, automatically means the same. 
I accept that seeking a guarantor demonstrates some concerns about the borrowers 
financial history or management. And that high cost credit is generally taken out by those 
whose choices are limited. But that doesnt mean that any lending in those markets 
shouldnt happen, the existence and regulation of which does not come under my remit.
My role as an ombudsman is to look at the individual circumstances of each case and 
identify whether the business complained about has done anything wrong. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I thought Georgebanco.com hadnt done anything wrong in this 
instance, and Mr Hs comments dont alter my findings.
It follows, therefore, that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint, and Georgebanco.com doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman