The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled her claim on her electrical 
emergency and breakdown cover.
What happened
Mrs A had electrical emergency and breakdown cover with Aviva. Her outside light stopped 
working, so she contacted Aviva.
An electrician attended and replaced the light. However, Mrs A was unhappy with the work. 
She said the electrician had to turn off all the electricity which was inconvenient, he had not 
brought a long enough ladder so had struggled to fit the light due to its height, and he had 
entered a room where she was, without knocking first. She complained to Aviva about this at 
the time.
That evening she contacted Aviva again as she said the light wasn't working properly. She 
said it wasn't as bright as the one replaced, and it was constantly on and was annoying the 
neighbours. Aviva told her she would get a callback in the morning. It then contacted the 
electrician, who said he would not re-attend as Mrs A had been verbally abusive towards 
him.
The following day Mrs A called Aviva as the electrician had not contacted her as it said 
he would. Aviva told her nobody would be attending.
Mrs A was unhappy that she was not told this during the morning, and that her light was not 
fixed properly. She complained to our service.
During our investigator's enquiries, Mrs A said that she had since had some work done on 
the light by an independent electrician. She had also moved insurance companies, and the 
electrician from her new company had told her the work done on the light was sub-standard 
and had caused the fault.
Aviva responded to all the complaint points. It said its electrician had acted correctly in 
turning off all the electrics as the fuse box was not correctly labelled, so he had done so for 
safety reasons. He had replaced the light with a suitable alternative and it was working 
correctly. They disputed that the way the light was fitted had caused it to subsequently 
become faulty. They did acknowledge that the electrician should have knocked before he 
entered the room and apologised to Mrs A for this.
The investigator thought that Aviva's electrician was acting reasonably for safety reasons 
when he turned off the electrics to complete the work. She also thought that as the 
electrician had replaced the light successfully, the length of ladder used was immaterial. And 
she thought that as Aviva had apologised to Mrs A for their electrician entering a room 
without knocking, that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The investigator 
DRN-1676702did however, think Mrs A was due some compensation for Aviva not informing her that the 
electrician would not be re-attending, and thought £50 was a fair amount.
The investigator was also of the opinion that it would not be fair to hold Aviva responsible for 
the poor condition of the light that was reportedly found by the electrician appointed by her 
new insurance company. She thought this because Mrs A had said the light had 
been worked on by another private electrician after the work completed by Aviva. And 
therefore, the investigator couldn't be sure the fault to the light was as a result of Aviva's 
actions, or the private electrician. 
Mrs A did not accept this view, and thought the offer of £50 was insufficient. So, the matter 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about how Aviva, and its appointed electrician, managed Mrs A's claim for 
a faulty outside light.
Mrs A has complained that the electrician had turned off all the electrics, which interrupted 
her work. The electrician said he did this for safety reasons as the fusebox circuits weren't 
clearly marked. The electrician was an expert, appointed by Aviva to carry out the work. And 
as such, I would expect him to take whatever safety measures he thought were necessary to 
ensure his, and Mrs A's safety while this was undertaken. I can understand how this may 
have been inconvenient for Mrs A, but I can't say he acted unreasonably by turning off the 
electrics to complete his work. 
Mrs A has complained that the electrician struggled to complete the work as the ladder he 
brought wasn't long enough. Aviva had agreed to replace Mrs A's outside light, and sent an 
electrician to do this. And that is what happened. However difficult the job was to complete 
as a result of the equipment the electrician brought, he completed it as agreed. So I don't 
think Aviva need to do anything more in this regard.
Mrs A complained that the electrician came into a room she was in without knocking. This is 
not disputed, and Aviva have acknowledged that this shouldn't have happened. They have 
apologised to Mrs A. I think this was probably an oversight by the electrician and I've not 
seen anything which makes me think it caused significant distress or inconvenience to 
Mrs A. For this reason, I think the apology given is sufficient in the circumstances and won't 
be requiring Aviva to do anything further.
On the same evening the light was replaced, Mrs A was not happy with the way it was 
working. She contacted Aviva, who said she would get a call-back in the morning to arrange 
for an electrician to re-attend. This call-back did not happen and when Mrs A chased Aviva 
later in the day she was told the electrician wouldn't be coming back as she had been 
abusive to him.
I can't say whether the decision to not re-attend was reasonable, as I've not seen any 
evidence of whether there was any abusive behaviour or not. I do think however, that Aviva 
didn't act fairly in not calling Mrs A in the morning as they said they would. Aviva knew at 
that point that the electrician wouldn't be coming, so should've called Mrs A to let her know 
which would've prevented her waiting all day. I think £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs A is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.In regard to whether Aviva properly installed the light, having looked at all the evidence, I 
agree with the investigator. Aviva tell us the light was correctly installed, and have produced 
records of their electrician's work supporting this. Mrs A says her new insurance company's 
electrician told her that when they inspected it, they found water had got into the junction 
box. But Mrs A also told us that an independent electrician had worked on it in the 
meantime, but had not completed a record of his work nor given her a receipt. So, whilst I 
can't be sure who was responsible for the faulty work, on balance, I cannot fairly say that the 
condition of the light, when inspected by the new insurance company's electrician, was 
Aviva's fault.
My final decision
As a result of all the above, I uphold Mrs A's complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman