DRN-3295694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around July 2015, Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs T decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In December 2016 the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
Mr and Mrs T were promised two differing year one benefit amounts - £979.29 and 
£1,262.64. This didnt take into account that after making the loan repayments 
Mr and Mrs T had an annual deficit of £785.31;
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £10,012 to 
mislead Mr and Mrs T  this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan, so the true cost was £19,573.20;
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments alone;
the system would not cost them a penny; and,
they would make savings on their electricity bills.
The CMC said Shawbrook had also failed to assess their creditworthiness and now Mr and 
Mrs T are struggling to keep up with payments.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs T and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated December 
2013; copies of marketing material used by P; a job advert for P; the credit agreement with 
Shawbrook; and some of Mr and Mrs Ts electricity bills.
In its final response letter Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to 
Mr and Mrs T, or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it 
said:
the contract P had provided Mr and Mrs T set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was 
not self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved;
the contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was £979.29, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments were £108.74 a month, or £1,304.88 over 
the year, so it was clear there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits and 
the loan repayments;
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mr and Mrs T to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator didnt think P had misrepresented the system to Mr and 
Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
the savings for electricity used should be calculated at 37% of the system generation. 
P had inflated the estimated electricity savings by using a 75% self-consumption rate. 
It said Mr and Mrs T were not asked about their annual electric usage and therefore 
P would have fabricated this data;
the repayments section of the quote is misleading. It wasnt clear that Mr and Mrs T 
would need to make a financial contribution each month;
the table on page 10 of the quote does not compare the benefits with the loan 
repayments;
the FIT statements demonstrate that the system is underperforming;
Mr and Mrs Ts electricity bills prior to installation were £822.56 and they reduced to 
£562.27 so the estimations at the point of sale were inflated;
Mr and Mrs T relied on the verbal representations made by P and they did not 
possess the relevant expertise and knowledge to understand the quotation; and
An OWL device is not guaranteed to save any money and therefore should not have 
been used by P to calculate yearly benefits.
The CMC also asked that we speak to Mr and Mrs T for their recollections. When our 
investigator spoke with Mr and Mrs T, they told us:
P provided them with estimates, but the system ended up being more expensive;
the FIT payments would be paid before the loan repayments were due so that money 
could be used to pay the monthly instalments;the meeting with P was 1.5 - 2 hours long and Mr and Mrs T felt they had to make a 
decision that day;
the system ended up only half-working; and
they werent prepared for the loan and didnt realise how much they were paying.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2022. I explained that a previous decision on 
this complaint had been issued in error and that wed written to the parties to explain what 
had happened, to say that the previous decision could not stand, and to let them know it 
would be reconsidered afresh. I further explained that was why the case had been passed to 
me.
In reconsidering the complaint afresh, I began by setting out the considerations I thought 
relevant to my decision. I wrote:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; 
relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook 
agrees that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs T 
could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by P in the same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, 
Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of 
this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr 
and Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an 
agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an 
untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party 
which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and the debtor arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any 
related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court 
shall have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to 
the creditor and matters relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair 
relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and 
Shawbrook. These include the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs Ts solar quote, 
titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether 
they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that 
it formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs 
Ts recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mr and Mrs T have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would 
be covered, or self-funded by their FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P and considered whether this supports what they say they were told as 
I consider the quote was central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs T could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The 
first shows the expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the 
expected average income over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would 
only receive FIT payments for 20 years and this is why 20 years was used in the 
quote. 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs T could 
expect to receive a total income in year one of £556.10 from their FIT payments.
Pages eight to nine of the quote go on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs T 
could expect from their system as well as any savings they would make from taking 
out any optional extras including a voltage optimiser and an OWL heating control. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £423.19 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £1,262.62. This is shown in a table titled Putting it 
all together.
The following page (page 10) has a section titled Repayments. This has three tables 
set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. The table for 180 months is 
highlighted in orange as this is the length of the loan term that Mr and Mrs T entered 
into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of 
£106.98 due (I recognise that a slightly different figure was included on the credit 
agreement  £108.74) and compares the overall expected grand total returns from 
the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive 
from the system as well as their expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare their FIT income to their 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could 
expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover their monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not 
satisfied that they were told that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mr and Mrs T have said that the cost of the system was documented as £10,012. 
They have said that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any 
interest associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £19,573.20.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs T makes it clear that the cost of 
the system is £10,012. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the total amount of credit is £10,012 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable under the agreement would be £19,573.20.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due, as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, 
the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the 
system was £10,012, it would cost Mr and Mrs T more than this as they had decided 
to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would not cost them a 
penny, and that they could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £979.29 or 
£1,262.64.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system 
versus the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible 
format comparing the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs T were expected to 
have made a loss of £0.71 a month and in the second year this would be a profit of 
£5.67 a month. It wouldnt be until the second year that the expected benefits would 
exceed their monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been 
until around year two that they would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual 
losses and the system would be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from 
the start, and Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs T were told that the system 
would not cost them a penny. I think the quote is clear that there would be a 
difference between their expected income and monthly loan repayments.
The CMC have explained that the paperwork has two differing year one benefit 
amounts - £979.29 and £1,262.64 and say this was done to mis-lead Mr and Mrs T. I 
dont agree. The figure of £979.29 is made up of the FIT payments and electricity 
savings in year one, and £1,262.64 is the total taking into account the optional extras 
sold alongside the system.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs T were told that theyd receive a year one benefit of 
£1,262.64 from the system as this was the expected combined income from FIT 
payments, electricity savings and optional extras. Having said that, taking into 
account the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs T were led to 
believe that theyd receive this sum in their hands. Im satisfied that the quote makes 
it clear that theyd have to make loan repayments and overall there would be a 
deficit.
I also accept that Mr and Mrs T were told by P that the system would pay for itself 
over the term of the loan. Page 12 of the quote has a table headed Estimated 
performance over 20 years:
This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs T could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement. 
This table also sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made them 
aware that performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. The quote 
document also refers to any warranty associated with the system or the inverter.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would 
pay for itself by year 12, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the 
contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs T. The quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,624 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by 
way of FIT payments and savings in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs T could 
expect to receive.
Between September 2015 and 2016, the system generated a total of 3,378 kWh. 
This is slightly lower than the estimated generation provided in the quote, but I think 
its within a reasonable margin. So, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line 
with the quote.
So, based on this, I would expect Mr and Mrs T to be close to recouping any initial 
losses from the system and for it to be paying for itself. Mr and Mrs T have said that 
this isnt the case so Ive gone on to consider whether P have overstated the 
potential income and savings Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive by, for example, 
using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mr and Mrs T was personalised to their specific 
circumstances and used a number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income 
and benefits they could expect to receive over the systems lifetime. The 
assumptions used included: the expected annual generation in kWh from the system; 
the amount of energy generated by the system that Mr and Mrs T would use rather 
than buying it from their energy provider, therefore leading to savings on their energy 
bills; and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increases in utility prices and RPI were based 
on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure 
provided in the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT 
statements provided, that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures 
provided in the quote.
The quote sets out that Mr and Mrs T were expected to use, or self-consume, 75% of 
the kWh generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years 
annual saving of £423.19. This amount of saving would increase each year in line 
with the ONS data Ive mentioned above.
The CMC responded to the investigators view and explained that they believed a 
37% self-consumption rate would be fair. This is based on a report, not specific to Mr 
and Mrs T, completed by a solar expert several years after Mr and Mrs Ts system 
was sold.Shawbrook have provided detailed information about Ps sale process in relation to 
calculating the amount of energy a consumer would self-consume from the system. 
They explained that they would ask a consumer what their current electricity 
consumption and cost was, and then use this information to estimate the potential 
savings.
I think Ps method for calculating the self-consumption rate is reasonable and 
personalised to Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, based on the information they 
provided at the time of the sale. I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask their 
consumer what their current electricity spend is and then rely on this information to 
calculate the electricity savings the system would generate.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected 
generation by the system and the percentage of energy that Mr and Mrs T were 
expected to self-consume were both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr and Mrs T could 
expect to receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI 
would increase in line with the available information from the ONS. The figure used 
for energy price increases was 8.38% and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the 
available information from the ONS from 2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy 
prices and RPI have increased in line with the estimates provided by P. The data 
from the ONS suggests that energy prices have increased by 3.7% and RPI by 
2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions used by P and in my 
view explain why they arent receiving the financial returns from the system that they 
may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available 
information from the ONS from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for P to have used these assumptions to calculate the expected 
financial returns from the system. Im of the view that this goes some way to 
explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 12 and certainly by the 
end of the loan term. Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed by the 
financial returns from their system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using 
unreasonable assumptions when they entered into the contract for the system.
Affordability
The CMC also say Shawbrook lent to Mr and Mrs T irresponsibly, as the loan was 
unaffordable.
When lending to Mr and Mrs T, Shawbrook was required to carry out an assessment 
of their creditworthiness considering the impact on their financial situation and their 
ability to make repayments over the life of the credit agreement. The creditworthiness 
assessment needed to be based on sufficient information obtained from the customer 
and, where necessary, a credit reference agency. The assessment needed to be 
proportionate to such factors as the type, amount and cost of the credit and the 
customers credit history.
Ive reviewed the credit checks Shawbrook completed before agreeing to lend to Mr 
and Mrs T. From these I can see that Mr and Mrs T declared a joint annual income of 
£38,000. The checks showed that they had close to £4,550 in credit card debt 
between them, a monthly mortgage payment of £499 and an unsecured loan 
repayment of £491 per month. As their take home pay would have been around 
£2,600, this would have left them with around £1,360 per month. There were no arrears showing on any of these accounts, and no indications of historic debt 
problems or of over-indebtedness.
The monthly repayments for the solar panel loan were £108.74 and Ive seen a 
statement of account which shows that Mr and Mrs T maintained their repayments 
between installation (August 2015) and March 2017 without falling into arrears or 
incurring any late payment charges. I think that these factors indicate that the checks 
completed by Shawbrook were proportionate. Ive seen nothing to indicate that this 
lending was unaffordable or that Mr and Mrs Ts application shouldnt have been 
approved.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source 
of unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has 
confirmed that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P 
were reasonable, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair 
relationship under the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had 
provided hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature 
used by P along with the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(RECC) non-compliance panel hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on 
all the complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant 
conclude that this was provided to Mr and Mrs T, or that it relates to the time their 
panels were sold. Whilst it does refer to the system paying for itself and being self-
funding, Im not persuaded I can place as much weight on this, especially when 
considered along with Mr and Mrs Ts personalised quotation. And, as I have 
explained above, at the time Mr and Mrs T entered into the contract with P Im 
satisfied it was reasonable to expect the system would have been self-funding and 
pay for itself by year 12 of the loan.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, almost two 
years before Mr and Mrs T entered into their contract with P. Shawbrook has also 
provided information from Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working 
with P since the findings to improve Ps sales process. This work included Trading 
Standards helping P to enhance their business paperwork and documentation to 
ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This has ultimately led to P receiving 
Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 
2013, the evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and 
documentation had evolved prior to Mr and Mrs T entering into their contract and I 
have to take account of the particular circumstances of this case, along with the 
wider, contemporaneous evidence.Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
currently satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that 
induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no 
other reason to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision Shawbrook had no further comments.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr and Mrs T said they didnt accept the outcome. They said Id 
disregarded Mr and Mrs T accounts of events when they were both witness to the mistruths 
they were told by the sales representative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the CMCs view that what Mr and Mrs T have said has been 
disregarded. But I dont agree thats the case, and I dont think Ive been presented with 
anything else which would cause me to depart from my provisional findings.
I know and accept that Mr and Mrs T recall being told that the FIT payments would cover the 
loan repayments. I also acknowledge what theyve said about not realising how much the 
loan would cost them. But their accounts of what happened must be considered alongside 
the documentary evidence thats been provided.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think the documentary evidence  in particular the 
solar quote and the credit agreement - was sufficiently clear and should have made Mr and 
Mrs T aware that the FIT income and savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
their loan repayments. I also remain satisfied that the credit agreement showed Mr and 
Mrs T how much the loan would cost them.
Part of Mr and Mrs Ts account of events is that they were told the system would pay for 
itself. Im still of the view that the paperwork supports that they were more likely than not told 
this; but not that it would do so immediately. The estimates given in the solar quote predicted 
that by year 12 the overall benefits would have exceeded the total cost of the loan. The fact 
that those overall benefits havent kept up with the estimates isnt, in my view, because they 
were untrue at the point of sale. I think those estimates were based on reasonable 
assumptions, but whats happened is that energy prices and FIT income havent met those 
reasonable assumptions. I think thats why the system isnt paying for itself, not because it 
was untrue to say that it could.
Although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T are likely to be disappointed by this outcome, I dont 
find that the solar panel system was misrepresented. I also dont think the loan Shawbrook 
gave them to fund the solar panel purchase was unaffordable, and Ive found no other 
reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Shawbrook Bank 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman