DRN-4177250
The complaint
Miss H complains about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limiteds (Aioi) handling of her 
claim under her car insurance policy. She also complains about the price quoted by them to 
insure her new car.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail. But, to summarise, Miss H made a claim to Aioi following an accident. Miss H became 
concerned about Aiois handling of her claim, so she complained. Aioi responded and 
partially upheld the complaint. They accepted the handling of the claim couldve been better. 
Aioi said their records showed Miss H had contacted them on a number of occasions to seek 
answers, but they didnt provide these. They also accepted there had been a lack of 
communication around Miss Hs car being written off when she was led to believe her car 
would be going into a garage for assessment. They also accepted Miss H had spent time 
contacting their claims department about the total loss payment. Aioi accepted the payment 
took longer than it shouldve to reach Miss Hs account. In relation to the box installation 
appointment, Aioi said a system issue led to the appointment not being allocated so they 
accepted theyd made an error. In relation to the premium for Miss Hs new car, Aioi said 
they hadnt made any error in calculating the price. In relation to the issues they upheld, as 
well as apologising, Aioi offered £100 compensation.   
 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss H. He agreed Aioi had made errors and thought 
the £100 offered was reasonable. Miss H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Aiois offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Miss H 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Claim related concerns  
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. 
The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Aioi accept they got things 
wrong and have set out these areas in their complaint response. For this part of the 
complaint, the only issue I have to decide is whether their offer of £100 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I think its right that Aioi should compensate Miss H for the worry, frustration and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by Aioi and the impact it has had. 
Ive listened to all call recordings between Miss H and Aioi. When the incident is first 
reported, Aioi explain theyll arrange for their agent to collect Miss Hs car within two working 
days and theyll then take the car to a garage for repairs. Theres a discussion about the 
process should the car be declared a write off, and Aioi explain, if thats the case, they would 
let Miss H know immediately. Miss Hs sister calls Aioi just under a week later to complain as 
the car hadnt yet been collected and also about call waiting times when trying to phone 
Aiois agent to find out what was happening. Aioi then call Miss H on 13 December 2022 and 
confirm her car has been written off. Its clear this was frustrating for Miss H as it doesnt 
appear she was informed about this immediately and was inconvenienced in having to make 
calls to chase progress. Aioi call Miss H on 14 December and arrange for the total loss 
payment to be made to Miss H. The call handler takes Miss Hs account details and explains 
shell arrange the payment now. 
The payment isnt received so Miss H chases on 20 December. The call handler explains the 
payment was issued on 14 December, but it would take five working days to arrive in      
Miss Hs account  so Miss H should get it the following day. During a further call with     
Miss Hs father, the call handler explains due to a system error the payment hadnt been 
issued, so they would have to raise it again. Theres also a discussion about sending the 
payment through faster payment with the call handler explaining theyd spoken with a 
manager who said it couldnt be sent the same day. Miss Hs father calls again on 21 
December to chase payment. The call handler confirms the payment has been processed 
and Miss Hs father says its not reasonable to wait another five working days and wants 
payment to be made the same day. The call handler explains they cant issue a same day 
payment. Miss Hs father is then transferred to a manager who explains their finance team 
are confident the payment should be received into Miss Hs account the following day. The 
manager explains they can make a faster payment but its not their preferred option. The 
manager explains they can cancel the payment which has been put through and make a 
faster payment instead, and Miss Hs father agrees to wait until the following day for the 
payment. Its clear there was conflicting information given about the faster payment, so I 
understand why Miss H is frustrated about this. 
Aioi call Miss H the following day to check if the payment has been received and she 
confirms it hasnt. The call handler explains theyll make some enquiries and will call Miss H 
back. Theres a further call where Miss Hs father explains the payment still hasnt been 
received. He explains he was offered a same day payment on 21 December but gave Aioi 
the benefit of the doubt as he was reassured by them that the payment would be received 
the following day. The call handler apologises for the previous call handler informing       
Miss Hs father the payment would be received by 22 December as its looking likely it will be 
received on 23 December. Miss Hs father than asks for a same day payment to be issued 
now. The call handler explains the payment has left Aiois account so they cant now cancel 
it and issue a faster payment. The call handler explains it shouldve been explained during 
the call on 21 December that the payment could take two days. Miss Hs father explains, had 
this been explained to him, then he wouldve chosen the faster payment option. Miss Hs 
father than asks for a return call the following day for Aioi to check if the payment has been 
received. Aioi then call back the following day and Miss Hs father confirms the payment has 
been received. 
Taking this all into account, I can see Miss H was left worried, frustrated and inconvenienced 
by Aiois errors. Its clear Miss H was frustrated when Aiois agent didnt collect her car, and 
she was inconvenienced in having to chase to find out what was happening. Theres also 
further frustration caused when Aioi dont appear to have immediately informed Miss H about 
her car being declared a total loss. In relation to the total loss payment, while no timeframe is 
agreed during the call on 14 December, given what the call handler says, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Miss H to have believed the payment would be made immediately. What then follows is Miss H being inconvenienced by her, and members of her family, 
having to chase for just over a week. During this time theyre given conflicting information 
about when the payment would be received and about a faster payment  as well as having 
to wait to speak to call handlers. Overall, while the payment was received just over two 
weeks after Miss H reported the claim, the errors Ive identified did cause Miss H to worry as 
she was given reassurances about when the payment would be received, which werent then 
met. And, also, by not providing Miss H with accurate information about the likely payment 
dates, this prevented Miss H from making an informed decision on whether to choose the 
faster payment option. Theres then a further issue when Aiois agent didnt attend the box 
installation appointment on the scheduled date. 
I have noted Miss Hs and her fathers comments about the impact the errors have had. 
While I can see this has been a stressful time for Miss H and her family, I think its important 
to make clear, our service is only able to award compensation for the impact of Aiois service 
on Miss H. I note Miss Hs father refers to Miss Hs sister having to spend hours chasing up 
Aioi and their agents for updates. I am sorry to hear about the inconvenience this caused, 
but I cant factor this into my assessment of compensation  although I have taken into 
account any corresponding affect this had on Miss H as a result of not getting any updates. 
So, while I acknowledge the impact on Miss H, I think it has been limited in duration and Ive 
seen no evidence of any ongoing issues or wider impact of the errors. So, looking at the 
impact the errors have had on Miss H, I think the £100 offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I note Miss Hs father raises a point about her having to take taxis to travel to and from work, 
because Aioi didnt provide a courtesy car. I can see Miss Hs policy does provide cover for a 
courtesy car, but I cant see this has been specifically raised as a complaint to Aioi, or 
evidence of them having had an opportunity to address this. So, Miss H will need to raise 
this with Aioi in the first instance before our service is able to consider this. 
Pricing concern 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Miss Hs original premium was £1,340.25, and then following a change of car, this 
generated an additional premium of £890.80. I can see £90 of this is for a mid-term change 
of car. This leaves £800.80 for the additional price charged for cover for the new car. So, I 
understand why Miss H is concerned about the price increase. Aioi have provided me with 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how Miss Hs price increase was 
calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with her because its commercially sensitive, but Ive 
checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price she has been charged has been calculated 
correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Aioi customers in Miss Hs position 
will have been charged a lower premium.
Aioi have provided details of their rating factors and loading tables. This shows the change 
of car led to a change in 16 rating factors and Ive seen the specific loadings which were 
applied for Miss Hs previous car and her new car. Ive compared the loadings, and this 
shows the price for Miss Hs new cars insurance has been calculated correctly, and theres 
no evidence Aioi have made a mistake here. I can see Miss Hs father points out the claim 
shouldnt have impacted the price of the policy. I note Aioi say any claims which occur during 
the policy term wont be taken into account in a mid-term adjustment. I wish to reassure  Miss H that Ive carefully reviewed the rating factors and loadings, and the price hasnt been 
affected by the claim when calculating this mid-term adjustment. 
Complaints handling 
I note Miss H has concerns about Aiois complaints handing  she says they took too long to 
address her complaint. I can see Aioi did respond on 6 February 2023  which is within eight 
weeks of Miss H raising all of her complaints. 
I would also add, complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a 
general rule, and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we 
wouldnt be able to look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers 
complaint, then we can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall 
customer experience. In this case, I cant say the issues which Miss H raises about the 
complaints handling are an extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I 
cant look into the complaint handling part of the complaint.      
 
I understand why Miss H has complained, and I hope she feels reassured that Ive checked 
the pricing information from Aioi. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Miss H 
unfairly. I also acknowledge the impact Aiois errors have had on Miss H, and Ive set out 
why I think the offer made is reasonable. I wish to reassure Miss H Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited have already made an offer to pay £100 
compensation to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited should pay £100 to Miss H, if 
they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman