DRN-4356056
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs R holds with Mortgage Express (ME). It was taken 
out in 2007 with a lender Ill call K, but was transferred later to ME. The mortgage was 
initially a capital repayment loan but was switched to interest-only soon after being taken out. 
Its a joint mortgage but the other borrower, Mr R, hasnt lived in the property since 2010. He 
and Mrs R divorced in 2017, and as part of a financial settlement reached in 2019, the court 
ordered, by consent, that Mrs R should use her best endeavours to release Mr R from the 
mortgage and become the sole borrower.
What happened
A key part of this complaint is that ME wouldnt allow Mrs R to take the mortgage over in her 
sole name; the other aspects of the complaint are that ME wasnt willing to convert the 
mortgage back to capital repayment and extend the term. The mortgage term expired in 
2022 and whilst Mrs R has made lump sum reductions, much of the balance remains 
outstanding and is now overdue for repayment. ME instructed solicitors to commence legal 
action to recover the debt.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded ME had treated Mrs R unfairly. She has asked for the 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. MEs legal action for recovery of the outstanding 
debt has been paused whilst the complaint was waiting to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
By way of a jurisdiction decision dated 11 September 2023, I set out the reasons why our 
remit to consider this complaint was confined to events since 4 July 2016.
In a further submission on the merits of the case dated 12 September 2023, Mrs R has told 
us, amongst other things, that her former husband is aware of the complaint, and has joined 
with her in engaging with third parties that are trying to secure new financing for her. Mrs R 
also pointed out that they divorced in 2017, not 2019 as I referred to in my jurisdiction 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Im sorry that I recorded 2019 as the year Mrs R and her former husband divorced, when in 
fact that was the year their financial settlement was finalised. Nothing turns on that for the 
purposes of this decision, but I apologise for the error nonetheless; it shouldnt have 
happened. 
I appreciate what Mrs R says about her former husbands awareness of the complaint; the 
fact remains however, that he isnt a party to it. Ill reiterate, for completeness that on 
balance, I think it is safe for me to determine the case on its merits without him being a party. 
Having considered the issues Mrs R is asking us to rule on, I dont think any decision from 
me is likely to impact adversely on Mr R. But by the same token, it does also mean that I 
cant consider whether and to what extent ME has (or hasnt) engaged with Mr Rs former 
husband about the outstanding debt. I dont have his authority to do that. For the avoidance 
of doubt, this complaint, and the decision on it, are solely about how ME has treated Mrs R.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R wanting to convert the mortgage back to capital repayment and/or extend the 
mortgage term
As already set out in the jurisdiction decision, Im only able to consider this point in terms of 
what has happened since 4 July 2016. As a starting point, changes to a mortgage such as a 
switch to capital repayment and/or extending the term arent changes which a borrower is 
entitled to by right. They are matters for a lenders commercial judgement, and are subject to 
assessment of risk (to the lender and the borrower in equal measure) by reference to the 
business lending criteria applicable from time to time. But a lender also has to treat 
borrowers fairly and make decisions that it judges to be in their best interests.
ME has looked at Mrs Rs requests for the mortgage to be changed to capital repayment; as 
part of that process, it took into account the difficulties Mrs R has had over time meeting the 
monthly interest payments on the mortgage as currently configured. With or without a term 
extension, a capital repayment mortgage costs more each month than an interest-only 
mortgage. Thats unavoidable, because a capital repayment mortgage requires the borrower 
to pay an amount each month towards reducing the capital, in addition to covering the 
interest.
Its clear from the history of the mortgage, and the contact between ME and Mrs R over the 
period Im looking at, that she has faced enormous financial challenges, many of them 
imposed on her by external circumstances outside her control. I imply no criticism of Mrs R 
over this, and none should be inferred. It seems to me she has always done her utmost to try 
to meet her mortgage obligations, in the face of considerable obstacles. But theres no doubt 
that doing so has been a huge challenge for Mrs R. However much Mrs R might think 
otherwise, I cant say, in all fairness, that it would have been in her best interests to increase 
her monthly payments by switching to capital repayment.
Looking at the term extension issue in isolation, my starting point here is that Mrs R, along 
with her former husband, borrowed money from ME, and under the terms of their original 
agreement with ME, was due to repay the money in 2022. No-one is entitled to borrow 
money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not automatically entitled to more 
time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the 
context of an application for a term extension, that means assessing it fairly in accordance 
with the banks lending criteria and its regulatory obligations. Lenders criteria are 
commercially sensitive and not generally made public.One key criterion for a lender is whether the borrower can evidence a suitable repayment 
strategy for the entire balance. For the reasons Ive already talked about, ME wasnt 
convinced switching the mortgage to capital repayment was in Mrs Rs best interests. 
Realistically, that meant either re-financing to another lender or the sale of the mortgaged 
property.
I understand why Mrs R has been reluctant to consider a sale of the property, given her 
wider circumstances. I wont disclose the details here, out of respect for Mrs Rs privacy, but 
shes had reasons, to do with family and how she makes her living, for not wanting to sell the 
mortgaged property. Im not unsympathetic towards her situation, but lenders arent required 
to wait indefinitely to be repaid the money theyve lent. Whilst ME is currently holding 
recovery action in abeyance whilst we look at the complaint, it doesnt have to and we cant 
insist that it do so. 
Where someone cannot repay an interest-only mortgage when its due, then wed expect the 
lender to have a conversation with the borrower about their circumstances, and try to work 
out a plan for repaying the mortgage. If that means providing more time, then fairness 
requires a lender to consider doing so. But for all her reasons why she didnt want to, Mrs R 
wasnt, and isnt, someone who cant repay their interest-only mortgage. She had the means 
to repay the mortgage when it was due, either by selling the mortgaged property or 
re-financing, a process I understand she is still pursuing. Ill return to that shortly.
Removing Mrs Rs former husband from the mortgage
At the heart of this element of the complaint is the breakdown in the relationships between 
Mrs R and her former husband, after the mortgage was taken out. I can tell from everything 
she has said and provided, that this is a sensitive and complex situation. The difficulty is that 
where personal relationships within a between joint mortgage borrowers break down, a 
lender doesnt simply remove one borrower because they want to be removed, and it isnt 
required to.
First of all, its a situation for the borrowers to resolve between them; they need to agree 
collectively on who should remain on the mortgage and who should be released from it. At 
the same time, it would be normal practice for a similar agreement to be reached on who 
should stay on, or be released from, the title to the mortgaged property. Thats seemingly 
what happened in 2019, when a consent order was made under which Mrs R agreed to use 
her best endeavours to release Mr R from the mortgage and become the sole borrower. But 
a consent order between separating borrowers over the property title doesnt bind a lender to 
a particular course of action regarding the joint mortgage.
Even where the parties to the mortgage reach agreement, those proposing to stay on the 
mortgage then need to apply formally to take over the mortgage, and the lender  so ME in 
this case  will then assess the application by reference to its lending criteria and its 
regulatory obligations. ME hasnt agreed to release Mrs Rs former husband from his 
obligations under the mortgage, and I can see why. Having two parties to the mortgage 
rather than one means that, in the event of a default, ME has legal recourse to recover the 
money from two borrowers, not just one. 
For the reasons already explained, I cant consider (or even discuss) in this decision what 
steps ME might or might not be taking to recover the outstanding mortgage from Mrs Rs 
former husband. But I can understand why it wishes to retain the option of him having joint 
and several liability for the mortgage debt, along with Mrs R. I appreciate why she might find 
that unwelcome but its not unfair, which is the test I have to apply. I make one last observation; I mentioned that Mrs R is still looking into the option of 
re-financing the mortgage to another lender in her own name. Theres no reason why MEs 
refusal to release her former husband from the current mortgage should be an impediment 
to that process. If a lender is willing to lend her enough money to repay the ME mortgage in 
full, then part of the legal work involved in that transaction can be the transfer of the property 
title to her sole name so that it can be offered up to the new lender as security for the new 
mortgage, free of any ongoing interest from other parties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Mortgage Express. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman