DRN-2949325
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Y, complains about RAC Financial Services Ltd.s 
administration of its business breakdown insurance policy.
Mr L, who is a director of Y, brings the complaint on Ys behalf.  
What happened
Y bought a business breakdown policy to cover six vehicles for two years. After one of Ys 
vans was written off, Y wanted to remove that van and add another in its place to the policy. 
RAC said Y couldn't do that because the policy says that no refund is payable if a vehicle is 
removed from cover. Mr L said that Y didn't want to remove a vehicle from cover, simply to 
swap it. He said Y paid for cover for six vans for two years and that's all he wants. 
Mr L brought Ys complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 29 June 2021. For ease 
I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's clear from the manner in which RAC has dealt with Ys complaint that it only intended its 
policy to cover the vehicles that Y initially insured at the point that it took out the policy. In 
other words, RAC has designed the policy in such a way that it doesn't allow vehicles to be 
replaced on it  i.e. to change one vehicle on cover for another. And I've noted that it says 
that if a vehicle is removed, no refund is payable (although where no claim has been made, 
it may give a pro-rata credit, to be offset against premiums for other cover).
In contrast Mr L pointed out that the policy says:
You must notify us immediately if you want to amend any details relating to RAC Business 
Breakdown including any change of address and any change to any vehicle to be covered 
under RAC Business Breakdown.
Mr L believes that RACs reference to any change to any vehicle above implies that he 
would be able to change the vehicles on the policy. Hes said that business vehicles may 
well need to be replaced during the two-year duration of the policy, so he expected that, like 
most motor policies, he would be able to do that. But, when he went on to Ys online account 
to change the vehicle, he discovered that the only option was to cancel the cover for the 
vehicle written off before seeking to add the new vehicle. He didn't think that was fair.
I have some sympathy with Ys position. Its reasonable for a company like Y to believe that, 
in the course of two years, it may need to exchange some of its vehicles, whether because 
of accidents, theft, or simply because they no longer meet the companys requirements. In 
those circumstances, it seems likely that, if Mr L had realised that Y wouldn't be able to swap 
the vehicles on cover, he would have decided this policy wasnt suitable for Ys needs.
RAC has provided some details of the online journey involved in buying and setting up the 
policy. I can see that RAC does require specific details of the vehicles to be covered. But it 
doesnt explicitly say during that process that it doesn't allow vehicles to be swapped. I agree 
with Mr L that the reference in the policy document to making any change to any vehicle to 
be covered can reasonably be interpreted to mean that the policy would allow for changes 
of vehicle.
While I accept it wasn't RACs intention to allow changes of vehicle on the cover, I think if its 
wording had been clearer, its unlikely Y would have bought the policy as it wouldn't have 
met its needs. It follows that I don't think RAC dealt with Y fairly.
I've thought carefully about what RAC needs to do to put things right. Given if RACs wording 
had been clearer Y wouldn't have bought the policy, I would usually say that it would be fair 
for RAC to cancel the policy and provide a full refund of premium. But I'm also aware that Y 
has made some successful claims on the policy. So it's had some benefit from it, and in 
those circumstances I don't think it would be fair to make RAC give a full refund of premium.
I've noted Mr Ls comments that Y has never sought a refund of premium. What it wanted 
was what it thought it had bought, i.e. breakdown cover for six vans for two years. But I've 
also noted that some considerable time has passed since Mr L first complained to RAC on 
Ys behalf. So, requiring RAC to swap the vehicles on the policy now, which is what Y 
wanted in the first place, won't return Y to the position it might otherwise have been in, as 
some of Ys vans would have been without that cover for over a year.
Im currently minded that, to put things right, RAC should provide Y with a pro rata refund of 
the premium for any of Ys vans which have been removed from the policy for the period of 
cover for which theyve been removed - regardless of whether those vehicles were subject to 
a successful call out prior to removing the vehicle from the policy. If Y has already redeemed 
any credit from RAC for any of these vehicles removed from cover, this can be deducted 
from the refund payable.
As this has clearly been a source of some inconvenience for Y, I think RAC should also pay 
Y £100 compensation.
Developments 
RAC didn't have anything to add to my provisional decision. Mr L said that of the six vans 
originally put on the policy, Y was only now in possession of two of those. He said he didn't 
bother to remove the others from the policy as he knew he couldn't replace them. He said he 
thought Y should get around 50% of its premium back. He also said he thought RAC should 
change the policy wording to make clear that changing vehicles on the policy isn't covered. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr L, on Ys behalf, nor RAC objected to my provisional decision, I don't intend to 
change it save to make the points below.
I said in my provisional decision that RAC should provide Y with a pro rata refund of all vans 
removed from the policy. Mr L said he didn't remove all the vans from cover after Y no longer 
had them because he knew he couldn't replace them on the policy. And I can understand 
why that was, given RACs position on the matter. That is Mr L felt Y had nothing to gain by 
removing the vans from cover. So he didn't go through the administrative process to do so. But after Y no longer had the vans, it could no longer claim for them. So I think it would be 
fair if, on receipt of evidence the vans were no longer in Ys possession, RAC treats those 
vans as removed from cover from the date Y no longer had the vans. And RAC should 
provide a pro-rata refund of premium from the dates the vans were removed or treated as 
removed from cover, regardless of whether or not theyve had a successful call-out on the 
policy. 
Mr L said he would like to see RAC change the wording on its policy. But were not the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. And I decide each case on 
its individual merits. That means I don't have the power to instruct RAC to change its 
policy wording. So it isn't something I will be able to do in this decision.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require RAC Financial Services Ltd 
to:
Provide Y with a pro rata refund of premium for any of Ys vehicles removed from 
cover, or treated as removed from cover when they were no longer in Ys 
possession, for the period theyve been removed. RAC may deduct from this 
refund any credit relating to any of these vehicles removed from cover which Y 
has already redeemed.
Pay Y £100 compensation to reflect the inconvenience to it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman