DRN-2591438
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc issued funds for two mortgages earlier than hed 
requested. He says this means hes paid additional interest, which hed like refunded.
What happened
Mr C applied to HSBC for two interest only buy-to-let mortgages on properties he already 
owned and which were mortgage free. He says he told HSBC he wanted the funds in 
December 2020. However, it issued funds for one mortgage in July and the other in 
September 2020.
HSBC paid £350 for the upset and trouble caused. It said as the term of the mortgages were 
the same Mr C wouldnt pay additional interest.
Our investigator said Mr C wouldnt have an overall loss as the mortgage term remained the 
same. While Mr C said he intended to repay the mortgages early there was no guarantee 
hed do so. And he could have told HSBC after the first drawdown that he didnt need the 
funds. The investigator said HSBCs offer of £350 was fair.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he intended to repay the mortgages early, so having the funds 
before he needed them did mean hed pay more interest. Mr C said he didnt contact HSBC 
earlier as he didnt know if it was possible to return the funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C didnt say when he needed the funds in his original mortgage applications. He 
contacted HSBC on 25 July 2020 to say that he didnt wanted the funds until December 
2020. 
HSBC issued funds for one mortgage in late July and for the second mortgage in September 
2020. 
It seems likely HSBC issued the funds on these dates because these were the drawdown 
dates included by the solicitor in the certificates of title. Mr C says the solicitor acted for 
HSBC, so this wasnt his responsibility. Theres no suggestion Mr C told the solicitor he 
wanted the funds on these dates, or that he told the solicitor he wanted the funds in 
December.
HSBC accepts it made an error when it issued funds in July and September 2020. Mr C had 
told it he didnt want the funds until December. However, HSBC says this didnt cause Mr C 
any loss. It says the mortgages had the same term of 15 years, so the overall interest costs 
were the same. They just started a few months earlier than Mr C intended.
Mr C says he intended to use the funds to buy another property. He says he didnt need the 
funds until later in the year, but wanted the mortgage offers in place ready for the purchase. 
He says hed have requested the funds in late December 2020. Mr C says hes repaid other 
buy to let mortgages before the term expired, using rental income. He expects to be able to 
repay these mortgages in about eight years. So having the money before he needed it 
means hell paid additional interest. I can also appreciate that as Mr C didnt intend to buy a 
property before December 2020 he wasnt able to put the funds to their intended use until 
then. 
Im inclined to agree with Mr C, that he did potentially have a financial loss. I must also take 
into account though that Mr C could have told HSBC thered been an error as soon as he 
received the funds in late July. Mr C says he didnt know if it would be possible to return the 
funds. However, he could have asked and given HSBC an opportunity to put matters right. 
HSBC says it could have reclaimed the funds and I cant see any reason why this wouldnt 
have been possible. I think if Mr C had told HSBC about the error in July its likely this would 
have avoided the second mortgage being drawn down in September 2020.
HSBC paid £350 for the inconvenience and upset caused by issuing funds too early. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think if Mr C was concerned about 
receiving the funds too early he could have raised this with HSBC sooner. Had he done so, I 
think HSBC would have reclaimed the funds and he wouldnt have incurred the additional 
interest. And while Mr C wasnt able to put the funds to their intended use (buying a 
property) immediately, he did have use of the funds during this time. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require HSBC to refund interest up to late December 
2020 or pay further compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman