DRN-3437865
The complaint
Mr R has complained that TSB Bank plc has treated him unfairly by not paying interest on 
deposits he made into a bank account.
What happened
Mr R opened an account with TSB in 2011. In 2020, he realised he wasnt getting interest 
paid on money deposited in his account, so he went into a branch to ask about this. He says 
he was told that interest stopped being applied in 2015 as the account type he had only paid 
interest if he was registered for online banking. But Mr R said he was never properly told this 
and explained that he wasnt able to read any terms that were given to him. He says he told 
TSB about his difficulty reading in 2011, so it shouldve made sure he could understand the 
new terms in 2015.
TSB considered the complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained that 
Mr Rs account type changed in 2015 and it said Mr R would have been provided the 
account terms and conditions at the time. As part of the terms, to get interest paid, an 
account holder needed to:
Pay in at least £500 to the account.
Log into online banking.
Be registered for paperless correspondence and statements.
TSB noted that Mr R had paid that amount into his account every month, but had only been 
registered for online banking in May 2019 and had never asked for paperless billing. TSB 
said the earliest note it had that he wasnt able to read the terms was in late 2019, so it 
accepted that from that date it should have realised the account type wasnt right for Mr R 
due to the need for online banking.
Although Mr R said he had spoken a TSB adviser in early 2020, TSB said it didnt have a 
record of any conversation and nothing had been done on the account. But TSB agreed to 
pay the interest that Mr R would have been entitled to on his account in 2019 and 2020 had 
be qualified for interest payments. So in November 2020 it made a payment of £53.33 to 
cover the interest.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with that offer, so referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at everything, but didnt think TSB needed to do anything more to 
resolve the complaint. He didnt think there was enough to say that TSB were aware earlier 
than December 2019 that Mr R had difficulty reading. So although he accepted Mr R 
wouldnt have realised what he needed to do to receive interest in 2015, he didnt think that 
was something for which TSB were responsible.
Mr R disagreed with what our investigator said and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators view for the same reasons.
Ive read the documents sent in by TSB and listened carefully to everything Mr R said. TSB 
has to communicate with Mr R in a way that is clear and fair, and if it knew about his 
difficulties reading, Id expect it to have explained how the bank account worked, as well as 
providing written terms. So I think its important to establish when TSB found out about 
Mr Rs circumstances.
Ive seen TSBs records that detail contacts it had with Mr R. Although the records cover the 
period from the start of 2011, the first recorded note is from February 2012. The first note 
Ive seen that mentions Mr Rs difficulties reading was dated December 2019. So Ive also 
seen whether there were earlier opportunities for TSB to have realised that Mr R needed a 
different way of communicating.
Ive seen a document provided by TSB called Your Interview Summary Document that sets 
out a record of why Mr Rs account changed in 2015. Not a great deal is recorded on the 
document, but its noted that Mr R wanted to review the benefits of his existing account. It 
said that a Classic Account was the only account available to him at that time and the 
highlighted benefit was an interest and fee free Planned Overdraft of up to £25. The benefit 
of paying interest on deposits wasnt highlighted in this document, nor was it recorded that 
Mr R may have troubles reading.
Ive also seen TSBs contact notes, that show that in October 2017 Mr Rs account was 
discussed with him and it was highlighted that he wasnt registered for online statements, so 
wouldnt receive interest. An appointment was made with Mr R, but there is no record of that 
appointment having taken place. At that stage, Mr R didnt register for online banking or 
statements.
In November 2017, TSB noted that Mr R called in ask for a copy of his bank statement as he 
said he hadnt received a statement that month. Its not recorded that at that time Mr R 
asked why he wasnt receiving any interest. 
TSB said it didnt have any records of any conversation between Mr R and an adviser in 
early 2020 where it was said that interest would be applied to the account. It said if an 
adviser had said this, it would have been a mistake as it only paid deposit interest on 
accounts registered with online banking and statements. Ive seen that there were other 
conversations recorded in 2020, including conversations about possible fraudulent payments 
and the effect of an overdraft.
In summary, I think that TSB has recorded a large amount of information about its 
conversations with Mr R, so Id have expected it to have recorded that Mr R had trouble 
reading if hed mentioned it earlier  I cant think of any reason it wouldnt have been 
recorded if it had been mentioned. So although its possible Mr R did say something before 
December 2019 and it wasnt properly recorded, I dont think its likely. Overall, I think its 
more likely TSBs records are an accurate record of what was discussed.
So I dont think that TSB were aware before December 2019 that Mr R would have had 
trouble understanding the bank account terms, so I cant say before then it should have 
made him aware in a different way how to arrange interest to be paid on his deposits. And I 
think TSB has acted fairly for the period after then, by paying interest on his account for 2019 and 2020. I understand that Mr R now knows what he needs to do to get interest on his 
account, if hes not done so already, so I dont think TSB needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman