DRN-2843111
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited hasnt paid him the correct 
pension amount under his occupational pension transfer plan.
What happened
Mr G was a member of his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 1988 he 
took advice through an independent financial adviser (IFA). The IFA recommended Mr G 
transfer the benefits he held in the OPS to a Transfer Plan with a business now known as 
Aviva. The plan started in November 1988.
In 2019 Mr G reached his retirement age and was told hed receive a level pension of 
£5,794.88. Mr G complained, saying hed been led to believe that he would receive tax-free 
cash (TFC), pension increases and Equivalent Pension Benefits (EPBs), which he 
understood to mean the benefits he wouldve been entitled to if hed remained in the OPS. 
Mr G said the illustrations he was given supported this.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, saying that the main purpose of the transfer plan was to 
provide him with a pension of no less than the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). Aviva 
explained that increases and other benefits would only apply if the fund value was sufficient 
to meet the GMP. It said that market conditions had meant the plan didnt grow as might 
have been expected when it was sold in 1988, so only the GMP could be paid to him.
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator ultimately upheld the complaint 
in part. She thought Aviva had paid the correct pension amount to Mr G  she was satisfied 
that under the terms of the plan, only the GMP was payable to Mr G. As the value of his fund 
wasnt enough to provide the GMP, he couldnt take TFC and the increases didnt apply. She 
also thought that Mr G had misunderstood what was meant by EPBs  she explained this 
was the predecessor scheme to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). 
The investigator was satisfied there were no EPBs payable to Mr G. However, the 
investigator recognised that the illustrations produced by Aviva couldve been clearer. She 
also thought that Aviva couldve highlighted the limitations of the plan and made it clearer to 
Mr G as he approached retirement that he was only likely to receive the GMP because of the 
poor investment returns. The investigator thought this had given Mr G a loss of expectation 
and recommended Aviva should pay Mr G £400 to compensate him for this.
Aviva accepted this but Mr G did not so the case was passed to me to decide. Mr G 
maintained that he understood the EPBs to mean he was guaranteed to receive the 
equivalent benefits available under his OPS  he said this shouldve been defined to avoid 
any misunderstanding. Mr G said he was induced to transfer his benefits to this plan 
because of this guarantee as stated on the illustration he received dated July 1988, and that 
Aviva should be bound by it. Mr G acknowledged that the policy terms said increases would 
not apply unless the GMP was met, but said these terms werent supplied until after the 
contract was finalised. Mr G added that the compensation didnt match the benefits hed lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from the investigators findings here. I appreciate Mr G will 
be disappointed by this, so Ill explain why.
Mr G has raised several points and I will address each in turn. But first I think its important to 
emphasise that Aviva didnt sell the plan to Mr G  an IFA advised Mr G to take it out. The 
complaint has largely been brought by Mr G because his understanding of what his plan is 
supposed to provide is very different to how it operates in practice. But it was the IFAs 
responsibility to explain how the plan worked and to ensure it met Mr Gs needs. Mr G has 
said the IFA was working for Aviva, but that wasnt the case. The business that sold the plan 
to Mr G was independent, it wasnt a tied agent or a representative of Aviva. So, Aviva isnt 
responsible for the advice. And as I understand it, Mr G has already complained about the 
advice and has received compensation.
While I cant consider a complaint about the advice, I can consider whether the information 
provided to Mr G by Aviva was clear. Mr G says that he relied upon the information in order 
to decide whether or not to transfer his OPS benefits to the plan. In particular, Mr G says the 
illustration dated July 1988 led him to believe he was guaranteed to receive the same 
benefits under the plan as he would get from his OPS. He also says the illustration stated his 
pension would increase once in payment.
Ive reviewed a copy of the illustration dated July 1988. This stated as follows:
GUARANTEE
From State Pension Age, the policy will provide at least the revalued Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension of £5,794.88 pa plus the Widows Guaranteed Minimum Pension (on death after 
State Pension Age) of £2,897.44 pa. We also guarantee to pay any Equivalent Pension 
Benefits. (To implement the guarantee, it may be necessary to alter the mix of benefits).
The term Equivalent Pension Benefits is capitalised here, which generally means that it is a 
commonly understood term, or one that is defined within the policy terms. According to the 
Pensions Tax Manual, EPBs are the benefits an employer had to give an employee who was 
contracted out of the Graduated Pension Scheme. The Graduated Pension Scheme was the 
earlier version of SERPS, which ran until April 1975. The benefits earned depended on how 
much had been paid in contributions. According to Mr Gs application form, he did not make 
any contributions towards his OPS before April 1975. So, no EPBs were payable to him in 
retirement.
It is unfortunate that EPBs wasnt defined in the policy terms, but I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr G to assume that it meant Aviva guaranteed to pay him the same benefits 
he wouldve been entitled to under his OPS. The aim of the plan was to provide a pension in 
excess of that available to Mr G under the OPS. But it if didnt perform well enough, it 
ensured that the GMP and any EPBs would be paid to him. It was not designed to mirror the 
benefits available under the OPS. It would appear that Mr Gs understanding of the plan was 
quite different. But as Ive said above, it was the IFAs responsibility to explain to Mr G how 
the plan worked. I cant say that the illustration alone, which didnt form part of the contract, 
couldve reasonably led Mr G to believe he would receive the same benefits as he wouldve 
received if hed remained in the OPS.Furthermore, Im not persuaded that Mr G was induced to enter into the contact based on 
the illustration alone. At the time of the sale, the markets were performing well and interest 
rates were high  the projections shown in the illustrations were achievable. So, the 
expectation was that the transfer plan would significantly outperform Mr Gs OPS and 
provide him with a greater pension at retirement. I accept that the information on the 
illustration couldve been clearer. But I dont think that a clearer explanation of what EPBs 
meant wouldve led to Mr G deciding against transferring his OPS benefits to the plan with 
Aviva.
Mr G was also disappointed that he couldnt take 25% of the sum as TFC and that his 
pension wont increase in retirement. The illustration didnt explain that the additional 
benefits would only be payable if the value of the plan was sufficient to meet the cost of the 
GMP. However, it did say that to implement the guarantee, it might be necessary to alter the 
mix of benefits. In addition, the plan technical guide, which the adviser shouldve given to 
Mr G with the illustration, says that it might be possible to take a sum as TFC. However, it 
stated that the amount available might have to be restricted to ensure that the GMP was 
met. So, I think Mr G ought to have been aware of this at the time.
I can see from Mr Gs application form that he applied for annual increases of 5% to his 
pension. However, the terms of his plan say:
The rate of increase in pensions shall not be such that the pension and Widows pension 
which can be purchased by the Capital Sum shall be less than the Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension and the Guaranteed Minimum Widows Pension respectively.
So, this makes it clear that there will be no increases applied to Mr Gs pension if the capital 
sum isnt sufficient to purchase the GMP. And as Mr G is aware, the capital value of his 
pension at retirement wasnt enough to purchase the GMP, so under the terms of the plan, 
only the GMP is payable to him, without increases.
Mr G says that this wasnt explained in the illustration, and the terms were provided to him 
after he agreed to take out the plan. But again, the illustration wasnt part of the contract  its 
main purpose was to illustrate the benefits Mr G could achieve at retirement, but the figures 
were not guaranteed (except for the GMP). Nevertheless, it did warn Mr G that the benefits 
available to him may have to be altered to meet the guarantee. And again, the features of 
the plan shouldve been explained to him by the IFA when the policy was sold. As above, 
I do think the illustration couldve been clearer, and I think the technical guide shouldve also 
made it clear that increases would only be payable if the GMP was met. But I still think Mr G 
wouldve purchased the plan for the reasons already given.
Over the years Mr G has been sent statements and retirement projections. As Aviva has 
acknowledged, since the millennium the markets have not performed well and interest rates 
have fallen significantly, which has had an impact on the returns his plan has achieved. It 
has also had an impact on the cost of providing the GMP. So, I think Aviva wouldve known 
by 2008/2009, following the financial crisis, that the value of Mr Gs plan was unlikely to be 
high enough at retirement to provide him with anything above the GMP.
However, the paperwork Mr G has received since then hasnt made that clear. Instead, Mr G 
was given the impression that the increases would apply. An illustration from October 2010 
said Mr Gs pension would increase by 5% a year. But the illustrations and anniversary 
statements sent after this dont seem to mention increases at all. With this in mind, I think 
Mr G probably wouldve expected his pension to increase in retirement, but I think Aviva 
wouldve known that wouldnt be the case because of how the plan had performed. So, 
I think Mr G shouldve been warned about this as he approached retirement. And as he 
wasnt, I think he has suffered a loss of expectation.Aviva has agreed to pay Mr G £400 to compensate him for this. And on balance, I think this 
is a fair sum for the loss of expectation hes experienced. Mr G says this doesnt reflect the 
amount of pension hell be missing over the years because of the lack of increases. But this 
award isnt being made to compensate him for the pension increases he says hell be 
missing out on. Instead, it is to recognise the distress he has been caused by finding out that 
the pension increases wont apply, and to reflect that Aviva couldve managed his 
expectations far better over the years.
Putting things right
To put the matter right for Mr G, Aviva should pay him £400 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint in part.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr G £400 in full and final settlement of his 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman