DRN-2581789
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the process Santander UK Plc used when he deposited a foreign 
cheque.
What happened
Around May 2020, Mr G visited a Santander branch to deposit a foreign cheque in to his 
account. Mr G says he was told that, due to a new procedure, the cheque will need to be 
sent to the banks offices elsewhere for processing. He also says that, based on the 
exchange rate on the day, he expected £4,065 to be deposited in to his account.
After the cheque was processed, Mr G found that only around £3,900 was deposited in to his 
account and that hed been charged a £10 fee. Mr G complained to the bank because he 
says he lost out on £170 because the exchange rate had changed by the time the cheque 
had been processed  so he thinks hes been penalised by the change in procedure. Mr G 
says he wasnt given prior details of the new process and that he shouldve been offered the 
opportunity to accept or reject the exchange rate being applied. Mr G is also unhappy that he 
wasnt given a receipt when the cheque was handed in at the branch. 
Santander responded saying it had processed the cheque in line with its terms and 
conditions. Mr G wasnt happy with the banks response and asked this service to get 
involved. Our investigator concluded that Santander acted fairly and in line with its terms and 
conditions. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the bank acted fairly and Ill explain why.
Santanders terms and conditions explain the process for depositing foreign cheques  these 
need to be sent to Santanders foreign cheque team for processing. Based on what Mr G 
told us, it seems staff at the branch he visited offered to do this on his behalf. The terms also 
say that the bank will not accept liability for any foreign cheques until they have been 
received by the Santander UK foreign cheque team. 
It seems the purpose behind the terms is to enable customers to arrange the processing of 
foreign cheques by sending it to the banks foreign cheque team directly. As Mr G visited a 
branch instead, the staff appear to have offered to do this on his behalf. The cheque wasnt 
processed or deposited at the time and no action was carried out on Mr Gs account. 
Moreover, the terms say that liability is only accepted by the bank once the cheque arrives 
with its foreign cheque team. So I wouldnt have expected the branch staff to provide Mr G 
with a receipt at the time. 
Foreign cheques are processed using one of two methods  negotiation or collection. Using 
negotiation means the customers account is credited with the funds within a few days of the 
cheque being processed. Negotiation is usually used by banks for lower value cheques. 
Santander told us that it wouldnt have offered Mr G a choice between using negotiation or 
collection as all foreign cheques up to the value of £5,000 are processed using negotiation. 
Santanders terms say that for foreign cheques processed using negotiation, the exchange 
rate used to convert the cheque will be whatever the rate is on the day the cheque is 
processed. Mr G says the exchange rate on the day he visited the branch was more 
favourable. But Mr Gs cheque wasnt actually processed that day  it was sent to the foreign 
cheque team on his behalf. Mr Gs cheque was processed a few days later, by which point 
the exchange rate had changed. Santander acted in line with its terms by applying the 
exchange rate effective on the day the cheque was processed  so I think it acted it fairly.
Mr G says that Santander shouldve contacted him before processing the cheque to advise 
him of the exchange rate and give him the option to accept or reject the rate being applied. 
Mr G mentioned various other products where such an option is available. My role isnt to tell 
Santander what processes it should follow  I can only look at the individual circumstances 
of this complaint to decide if Mr G was treated unfairly. I dont think he was.
I say this because theres nothing in Santanders terms that say it needed to contact Mr G 
before processing the cheque. And by sending the cheque to the foreign cheque team, Mr G 
had already expressed his decision to deposit the cheque in to his account. So I cant say 
that Santander acted unfairly because of this.
Mr G says he wasnt informed about the change in procedure for processing foreign 
cheques, nor was he given details of the exchange rate. Santander says that the only 
change in the procedure is that foreign cheques need to be sent to the foreign cheque team 
for processing. This is what Mr G was told by bank staff, so I think he had enough 
information about the change in procedure before he sent his cheque. 
And there wouldve been no means for the bank to determine the exchange rate beforehand, 
as this information wouldnt have been available on the day the cheque was sent off. Its 
unfortunate that the exchange rate ended up being less favourable for Mr G, but I cant fairly 
say that the bank shouldve done more to minimise the impact of this change.
Mr G isnt happy that he was charged a £10 fee by Santander for processing the foreign 
cheque. Santanders terms explain that the fee to process a foreign cheque is £10 and this 
information is also set out on its website. Its also not unusual for a bank to charge a fee to 
process a foreign cheque. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to charge Mr G 
a fee. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Santander applied its terms fairly when processing Mr Gs 
foreign cheque. I appreciate that Mr G is disappointed that he ended up with less funds than 
anticipated. But there was no way the bank couldve predicted the change in the exchange 
rate in order to let Mr G know, nor did it need to contact Mr G before processing the cheque 
to check he still wanted to go ahead. So I cant conclude that the bank had done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman