DRN-3555189
The complaint
Mr O complains about how he was treated when a fixed sum loan agreement with Career 
Finance 4 Trade Skills Limited (Career Finance) was given to him to pay for a training 
course.
What happened
In September 2012, Mr O met with a representative from Career Finance and agreed to 
enrol onto a training course. Mr O says he was told that he would make monthly payments 
from his current account to pay for the training he would receive. 
Around six months later, Mr O says he checked his credit report and discovered that Career 
Finance had given him a fixed sum loan, to pay for the course. This meant Mr O had a 
regulated credit agreement in place, instead of what he says he was expecting. 
After a few years, Mr Os financial circumstances changed and he missed some of the 
payments due under the fixed loan agreement. Mr O came to an arrangement with Career 
Finance, whereby he settled the outstanding balance, by paying slightly less than the original 
loan amount. 
In June 2020, Mr O complained to Career Finance and said they had incorrectly recorded 
missed payment information on his credit report. He also complained about the way the fixed 
sum loan was sold to him and that he was prevented from accessing the content of the 
training course. 
Career Finance replied to Mr Os concerns and said they hadnt reported any missed 
payment information with credit reference agencies, since Mr O settled the loan in February 
2016. They also said that Mr Os concerns about the sale of the loan were raised more than 
six years after the agreement was signed. So, Career Finance said they wouldnt look further 
into that part of his complaint. 
Mr O didnt accept Career Finances response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Os case and found that Career Finance had treated him fairly. 
She concluded that Career Finance hadnt made an error with the information showing on 
Mr Os credit file. She also said the time to complete the course had expired in 2015, 
meaning Mr O may not have had access to the content from then onwards. 
Additionally, the investigator agreed that this service couldnt look at the sale of the loan, as 
Mr O was too late in raising his concerns with Career Finance. 
Mr O didnt agree and said we should be able to look at the way Career Finance provided 
the loan to him. He said other people had experienced similar problems with Career Finance 
and that he was denied access to the course content, because he encountered financial 
difficulties in 2015. 
The investigator didnt change her conclusions, so Mr Os complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. Ive already explained to Mr O that we cannot look at the sale of the 
loan, but I can consider the other parts of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive explained to Mr O that we cannot review the sale of the fixed sum loan, as he 
complained to Career Finance more than six years after the loan was taken out. And he 
contacted them more than three years, from when he became aware he had cause to 
complain about the loan.
However, there are two other parts of Mr Os complaint which I have been able to consider. 
Namely, his concerns about the missed payment information recorded by Career Finance 
with credit reference agencies, and that he couldnt access the content of the course.
The missed payment information
Mr O has told us that he checked his credit report in June 2020 and saw some missed 
payment information, recorded by Career Finance. In an email to Career Finance, he 
complained that they had recorded that information throughout the previous twelve months, 
even though hed settled the loan account in 2016.
Ive looked at the information about Mr Os loan with Career Finance, from the records held 
with credit references agencies. Having done so, I can see that Career Finance passed on 
information about missed payments from February to December 2015. The records also 
show Mr O settled the account early 2016.
I think this supports what Mr O says, in that he encountered difficult financial circumstances 
in 2015. And that this prompted him to come to a settlement agreement with a debt recovery 
firm.
Having considered everything, I think the information passed to credit reference agencies by 
Career Finance was a true reflection of what happened, with the repayments due to the fixed 
sum loan. I dont think the missed payments are related to any activity after the loan account 
was settled. So, I think Career Finance treated Mr O fairly here.
Access to the content of the course
Mr Os fixed sum loan agreement is a regulated credit facility. So, we are able to consider 
complaints about it. Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a finance provider is 
responsible for any breach of contract by the supplier in certain circumstances. 
In Mr Os case, he says the course supplier stopped his access to the learning material, so 
they didnt give him what hed paid for. If the goods or services sold by the supplier are not 
provided, then this is a breach of contract. So, Career Finances responsibility to Mr O is to 
consider his section 75 claim and decide if the course was provided according to the 
contract. If its found they were not provided as expected, it would be for Career Finance to 
then offer Mr O an appropriate remedy.
Ive concluded that in 2015, Mr O missed several monthly payments due to the fixed sum 
loan. He has told us that shortly before this time, his access to the content of the course was 
stopped. Mr O says this was unfair, because hed paid for something that he cannot make 
use of. And that the supplier of the course stopped his access, because they hadnt been 
paid by Career Finance.Career Finance says Mr Os course expired in 2015 and that the supplier of the course 
hadnt breached their contract with Mr O. So, Ive considered the terms of Mr Os agreement 
with the course provider, to see if theres been a breach of contract. 
Section 3 of the Trainee Enrolment Form signed by Mr O in September 2012 says:
I understand that my course may take from 12 to 36 months and it can be paid for 
using the schedule of enrolment.
Overall, I think the Trainee Enrolment Form says the amount of time the course Mr O chose, 
could take up to 36 months to complete. I accept that the terms and conditions Ive seen 
dont elaborate on what will happen after the 36 months. But, I think they set Mr Os 
expectations that he could take no longer than around three years to finish the course.
I also think this is supported by what Career Finance have explained about the course 
expiring in September 2015. And where Mr O says he couldnt access the course material 
after around three years.
The agreement Mr O had with Career Finance meant that they paid the supplier of the 
course in full, once Mr O had agreed to the fixed sum loan. I acknowledge that Mr Os period 
of financial difficulty happened around the same time as he says the access to the course 
material stopped. 
But, I dont agree that that access stopped because of the missed payments. On balance, I 
think its likely to have been because of the end of the 36 month course completion period. 
So, I dont think there was a breach of contract by the supplier of the course, when Mr O 
couldnt access the learning material three years after entering the agreement.
In all the circumstances, I think Career Finance treated Mr Os section 75 claim fairly, when 
they looked at the breach of contract by the supplier of the course.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman