DRN-3428430
The complaint
H complains Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim against its commercial insurance 
policy. 
H thinks the claim should be met. 
What happened
Hs property flooded in August 2020, so a claim was raised. It said severe localised flooding 
occurred causing damage to several other properties. 
Covea considered the claim but declined it. They say H reported water entered the property 
through a well inside it, causing damage. They referred to the policy terms and said cover for 
damage caused by a change in the water table is excluded. 
Covea also say H should have disclosed there was a well inside the property. As had it done 
so, they would have applied a term that excludes cover for water damage in relation to the 
well. 
H didnt agree. It says the claim should be met as its been demonstrated severe flooding 
occurred, which it thinks rose above the threshold of the doors and entered through a drain. 
It says, whilst it initially reported water could have entered through the well, that wasnt the 
case. 
H complained, but Covea maintained their position. They agreed local flooding occurred but 
didnt think the claim should be met. So, H brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. As such, H 
asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me for a decision. After the 
complaint was passed to me, H provided further evidence from an independent engineer, 
amongst other things, which I considered as part of my provisional decision, I issued on 3 
March 2022. Ive set out my provisional decision below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
A key finding I must make is whether I think Covea declined the claim fairly. Having 
considered things, I currently dont think they have. Ill explain why. 
Although H reported water had entered the property through the well, Im not persuaded 
thats what happened here on balance. I accept why Covea relied on in part Hs initial report 
of what happened, but I currently find the independent report given by H most persuasive. 
For clarity, the report says: 
Upon arrival at the property, we encountered water throughout the shop to a level of up to 4 
inches deep in the lower level areas. 
The business owner had initially assumed the flooding had been caused by water rising in 
the well, but we concluded this to be an impossibility due to 2 key factors: 
1) The well opening was completely sealed shut with 1.5 thick glass cover and was 
watertight due to having being sealed in with sanitary grade silicone. The lid was later 
cut out to inspect the well overflow, but the sheer amount of water found in the 
building that morning could not have been caused by water ingress seeping through 
any potential gaps. 
2) The well also contained an above mentioned 1 overflow pipe, which was installed to 
drain the well into the main drainage pipe in the event the water level rose too high. 
We also tested the overflow to ensure there was no blockage. 
The report goes on to say the lid was removed during the visit, and water had not breached 
the level of the overflow pipe, which was around three courses of brickwork from the 
opening. The engineer says, in their expert opinion, its an impossibility that water entered 
through the well. Rather, flooding of Hs property was due to either an excess of surface 
water, or due to drains backing up. 
Im more persuaded in this case by the expert evidence over the initial report of what H 
thought had caused the damage when it contacted Covea by phone. 
As such, I havent been satisfied Covea declined the claim fairly. I currently think H has 
demonstrated localised flooding occurred, and the terms relied on by Covea to decline the 
claim were applied unreasonably. It appears more likely Hs property was flooded  which 
isnt disputed by either party  due to an excess of surface water flooding and/ or the drains 
backing up. Therefore, I currently intend to direct Covea to pay the claim. 
Ive also considered whether H should have disclosed the well located within the property, 
and the steps Covea say they would have taken had it done so. 
H had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk, which means it had to disclose enough 
information to enable Covea to make further enquiries about potential material 
circumstances. 
Covea says had the well inside the property been disclosed, they would have applied a term 
that excludes damage due to an ingress of water in connection with the well. They would not 
however, have required H to pay an additional premium. Therefore, Im currently satisfied 
this is a qualifying misrepresentation. I say this because I think Covea has reasonably 
demonstrated that, had they been made aware of the well, they would have done something 
different. 
However, for the reasons given above, I dont think this qualifying misrepresentation is 
material to the loss H reported here. I havent seen strong persuasive evidence from Covea 
to show Hs property flooded because of water ingress in connection with the well, or a 
change in the water table. Rather, Im more persuaded by Hs evidence, that flooding 
occurred due to excess surface water and/ or by drains being backed up. Therefore, as 
mentioned above, I currently think Covea should pay the claim. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold this complaint. I intend to require Covea Insurance plc to 
pay Hs claim. Responses to my provisional decision
H accepted my provisional decision, but Covea didnt. 
Covea raised concerns regarding the new evidence provided by H on the most likely cause 
of damage. They say H raised an entirely new circumstance having initially reported that the 
cause of damage was the well inside the premises. They also say H carried out the 
conversion of the premises and made the well a feature, and therefore ought to have known, 
when raising the claim, the well was sealed, and this wasnt the cause. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coveas position on the matter was H failed to disclose a well inside the premises, which 
allowed water to enter and cause damage, due to a rise in the water table. H did initially say 
it felt the well was the cause, so I understand why Covea arrived at this decision. 
That said, along with the independent report Covea raised concerns over, H also contacted 
the Environmental Agency who said the incident that occurred in the location of Hs premises 
in August 2020 was due to thunderstorms and intense heavy rainfall, that led to surface 
water flooding  not a rise in the water table. 
This information in my view strengthens the evidence presented by the independent 
engineer that the well wasnt the cause of damage. Rather, its more likely than not, Hs 
premises flooded due to excess surface water and/ or the drains being backed up. H says 
water breached the threshold of the doors and entered through a drain which, on balance, I 
find plausible. I say this given the volume of water reported both inside the premises and 
shown within photographs provided by H of the local area, and the comments from the 
Environmental Agency and the local council. 
I understand Coveas concerns regarding the time between the incident occurring and H 
providing the independent report  and what H had initially reported. However, Ive not seen 
any strong supporting evidence from them to discredit the contents of the independent 
report, or the expertise and credibility of the engineer. 
I must explain my provisional decision wasnt based on the consideration of this independent 
report in isolation. I also looked at the dimensions of the well, amongst other things. 
This shows it was designed with an overflow pipe underneath the 1.5 inch glass lid the 
independent engineer says was sealed and effective at the time of their inspection, to take 
water out and away from inside the well should the water level rise. Ive also seen 
photographs of the well with the lid appearing to be sealed when the premises flooded, and 
after it was said to have be removed for inspection, which shows the location of the overflow 
pipe. 
The engineer says they checked the overflow pipe and found this to be in normal working 
order, and in any event, the water inside the well hadnt breached the level of the overflow 
pipe. And in their expert opinion, the volume of water found within the premises could not 
have come from water seeping through any potential gaps between the thick glass and 
silicone  they say was sanitary grade silicone.  Overall, I accept this is a finely balanced case. And part of my consideration was the initial 
information provided by H to Covea. I do however find there to be more persuasive evidence 
that severe localised flooding  which isnt disputed occurred  was the cause of the 
damage. I remain more persuaded that Hs premises flooded due to an excess of surface 
water and/ or by the drains backing up. 
Putting things right
Having considered all the information presented by both parties following my provisional 
decision, I remain that Covea should pay Hs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold it. I now require Covea Insurance plc to pay Hs claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman