DRN-4068780
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the offer she received from esure Insurance Limited when she made 
a claim on her motor insurance policy following a road traffic accident (RTA). The vehicle 
was deemed a total loss, and Mrs S was offered a cash payment in settlement of her claim. 
She feels the payment doesnt reflect the cost of replacing her vehicle for a similar one. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mrs S was involved in an RTA and subsequently raised a claim under her 
esure motor insurance policy. Her vehicle was deemed a total loss, and esure initially offered 
her a cash settlement of £4,500 in settlement of her claim. Mrs S disputed this, and the offer 
was later increased to, and payment made for, £4,820. But Mrs S remained unhappy with 
this, so she complained. She said the figure didnt fairly represent the costs she would incur 
in replacing her vehicle for a similar model. She was also unhappy that she was left without 
a car for some time. 
Esure considered Mrs Ss complaint, but didnt uphold it. They explained that Mrs Ss policy 
paid out the market value of the vehicle, and that this was based on what the value of her 
car would have likely been immediately before the accident. They explained that they reach 
this value using a number of recognised motor trade guides, and then take an average of 
those guides, unless one is significantly different. They said that in this case, they checked 
four guides, and the average of these was £4,729. So, based on this, they were satisfied 
their offer of £4,820 was fair. Unhappy with this Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mrs Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said 
that esure had acted fairly in line with the policy terms, when looking to settle Mrs Ss claim 
based on the market value of her vehicle immediately before the accident. And he was 
satisfied that esure had reached this value fairly, using recognised trade guides, which is in 
line with our services approach to such cases. So he didnt think esures offer of £4,820 was 
unfair. He also made no award in respect of hire car delays or references Mrs S made 
towards lost income.
Mrs S remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints of this nature, we follow quite a structured approach. The first 
step is for us to look at exactly what the policy covers. In this case, Mrs Ss policy sets out 
that in the event of a total loss, the car will become esures property. And that they wont pay 
out more than the market value of the car at the time of loss, less the total excess payable. 
They define market value as the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your 
car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the 
value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and 
mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade 
guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
So, I think the policy is clear about how esure defines market value, and also how they reach 
that figure including details of the trade guides they use. This is also in line with our services 
approach to such cases, where we too rely on the same trade guides in order to determine 
what a fair market value for the vehicle is. 
The next thing to check is that the vehicle information esure have used, in order to reach a 
fair market value, is an accurate and fair representation of the vehicle which has been 
damaged/written off. In this case I can see that esures four valuations are based on the 
same make and model vehicle as Mrs Ss, with the same engine size and the same mileage. 
And that the information submitted is in line with that provided at the point of claim, so Im 
satisfied that the valuations calculated have been done so based on accurate information. 
The four valuations produced provided relatively similar market values of £4,820, £4,628, 
£4,981 and £4,485. And esures final offer of £4,820 is above the average of those four 
valuations (£4,728). So I dont think esures settlement is unreasonable.
Mrs S has also said that she feels the valuation should be increased as she had recently 
replaced the tyres on the vehicle, and it had a full tank of petrol. But we dont find that factors 
such as this have any material impact on the vehicles value. So, while I appreciate Mrs S 
may have incurred this expense, this is not something that is recoverable under her policy, 
and I dont think esure were unreasonable in not making any further amendments to the 
settlement as a result of this. 
Mrs S has also said that she lost out on work as a result of being without her car. While I 
appreciate Mrs S was without a car at the outset for a short while, this was following an RTA, 
and these things can take some time to be arranged. In this case, it seems that the RTA 
occurred on the afternoon of 17 January 2023, and Mrs S was provided with a temporary 
vehicle by 19 January 2023 while her claim was pending. So, while she was without a car for 
over a day, on the whole, I dont think these timescales were unreasonable. 
Mrs S is also unhappy that she feels that the was left without a car following the business 
settling her claim, as at this point, she says the amount paid was insufficient for her to 
replace her car like for like. However, as Ive already set out above, I am satisfied that the 
sum esure paid in the settlement of Mrs Ss claim was fair. So I wouldnt hold esure 
responsible for any losses beyond that point, as once they had paid out in full under the 
policy, they had effectively discharged their liability. I also think it was reasonable for them to 
arrange for the replacement vehicle at this point to be returned.
So, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mrs S, for the reasons set out 
above, I wont be asking esure to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman