DRN-1252882
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 1998. Mr V says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Vs signed credit card application. It includes a section called 
optional features. Within this section theres the option to tick if PPI is required. Mr V has 
ticked this box. If he hadnt wanted the PPI he could have left the box blank. And I note that 
he has chosen to not take other optional features offered in this section (by leaving the 
boxes blank). So I think Mr V was aware he was taking out PPI and chose to take it at the 
time - knowing he didnt have to. Although I understand why he cant remember this as the 
sale was a long time ago.
Im also aware that the charge for the policy would normally have shown as a separate 
entry on his credit card statements. If he didnt know what this charge was for or hadnt 
agreed to taking out the PPI, I think he would have raised this with Lloyds sooner than he 
did.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr V so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr V says he can't remember if he received sick pay from his employer. But this policy would 
have paid out on top of anything he might have received from his employer and it also 
offered unemployment cover. Mr V says he had some savings at the time worth less than 
three months. But hes also told us he was already in debt when taking out the credit card. 
So I still think PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
as Ive set out above, I think it was right for him. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Hannah EykelOmbudsman