DRN-4158674
The complaint
Mr R has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund money he lost from his 
accounts after being the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
In 2018 Mr R was searching online for investment opportunities to counter low bank interest 
rates. He filled in an online form and got a call from someone purporting to work for a 
company who could assist Mr R (who Ill call A). A told Mr R that they had a low-risk 
opportunity for him to invest in a three-year bond with a commercial development company 
(who Ill call E). This would pay 9-12% interest a year.
Mr R was sent a glossy brochure showing what E offered. He also checked out Es status at 
Companies House. In July 2018 Mr R went into his Nationwide branch and made two 
separate £5,000 bond purchases. He received appropriate certificates from A which he felt 
confirmed these as genuine investments.
Nearly a year later A contacted Mr R again. They had another opportunity for him to invest 
with E. This bond would pay 12.58%. Mr R paid a further £5,000 in two amounts of £3,500 
and £1,500 from his other Nationwide current account. Like the previous two payments in 
July 2018, Mr R went into his branch to make these payments.
Mr R then found he couldnt contact A on the details he held for them. He tried to contact E 
too but was unsuccessful. Mr R then discovered that like others hed been the victim of a 
scam. A had been wound up in May 2019 following an investigation by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
Mr R asked Nationwide to reimburse him. He felt they should have intervened and provided 
him with appropriate warnings as these were unusual transactions. He also felt as the 
transactions in 2019 were made after the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code was in 
place, Nationwide should refund him as the victim of a scam. 
Nationwide couldnt see any record of the two transactions in 2019. They also noted the two 
payments in 2018 were carried out in branch following proper authentication by Mr R. They 
also noted that these payments were not at all out of character as Mr R had made a number 
of large-value payments both before and after the two payments in July 2018. Branch staff 
had held lengthy discussions with Mr R warning him of potential scams. He had always 
insisted that the payments should be made.
Mr R brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt that no further 
intervention by Nationwide wouldve stopped Mr R from making these payments. He also 
found no evidence of payments in 2019.
Still dissatisfied, Mr R has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. His 
representative felt Nationwide should have been alert to the fact that A had been wound up 
as a scam by the time payments were made in 2019.
I completed a provisional decision on 2 May 2023. I was able to identify the two disputed 
transactions made in June 2019. I believed these should be refunded by Nationwide.
Mr R accepted this outcome, as did Nationwide.
I now have all I need to complete the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the outcome in my final decision remains the same as that in my provisional 
decision. What follows matches the arguments in my provisional decision as both Mr R and 
Nationwide accepted this outcome.
I dont dispute Mr R was scammed and has lost money hed been hoping to invest. He has 
my sympathy about what he has gone through.
Theres no dispute that Mr R made and authorised the payments. Mr R believed he was 
buying investment bonds with E. 
Im satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017.
Its also accepted that Nationwide has an obligation to follow Mr Rs instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr R is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Nationwide 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr R fell victim to an investment scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual. 
I have reviewed what happened to Mr R. Ive also considered whether Nationwide should 
have taken additional steps before processing any of the payments which might have 
included providing warnings to Mr R.
Nationwide has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions. 
In Mr Rs case, payments were made in his branch. I can see staff within the branch knew 
Mr R and challenged him about the payments he was making a number of times. There dont appear to be detailed branch notes about what exactly these challenges involved but there is 
testimony from branch staff which I have considered.
It is clear from the testimony Ive seen from Mr R and the evidence shared by Nationwide, 
that after receiving nearly £100,000 into his current account in late 2017, Mr R was looking 
for a range of different investment opportunities. In the early part of 2018 Mr R had spent 
money on some home improvements. Then in June 2018, Mr R made an investment with a 
government-backed savings vehicle, as well as making two other substantial investments of 
£25,000 and £10,000.
By the time Mr R went into branch in July 2018 to make the two £5,000 payments to E, it 
could be argued that a pattern of usage  the occasional investment payment  had 
emerged. In fact these payments are lower in value than the payments Mr R was making in 
June. And theres no evidence  at that time  that these payments were leaving Mr R 
without funds.
The testimony from branch staff is enlightening. This includes there have been several 
times over the years  refused to send payments for him. Mr R was told on more than one 
occasion that the companies may not have been genuine, but he was almost impossible to 
convince most times. It appears Mr R became aware of the steps he could take to avoid 
being challenged and was on occasion coy and refused to explain what the funds were for.
Nationwide has been unable to provide detailed contact notes about exactly what happened 
at the time Mr R was trying to make these disputed payments and the warnings they may 
have given. However I am satisfied that Mr R was aware that he could be making risky 
investments or was being scammed and would have ignored any warnings he was given. Its 
clear that he insisted on more than one occasion that payments were made as he instructed.
Mr Rs representative has suggested that more should have been done at this stage to 
demonstrate to Mr R that he was the victim of a scam. However Im satisfied with the steps 
Nationwide took to identify potential risks to Mr R.
I have considered, in the light of Nationwides warnings and likely knowledge, whether they 
should have stopped Mr R from making the early payments at all. But I dont believe they 
acted improperly here.
In this instance I believe it was more than likely Mr R insisted that he was perfectly capable 
of making his own decisions to manage his money. His insistence would have influenced 
Nationwide in ensuring they followed his payment instructions.
Ive also considered whether Nationwide did enough after it was notified about the scam? 
I have limited evidence of what Nationwide did. However by the time they carried out any 
investigation, it was more than three years after the initial payments were made. I think it is 
most unlikely that there was any chance of Mr R recouping any funds through Nationwides 
actions. Since A was dissolved in 2019, I am satisfied there is limited opportunity for any 
funds to be available.
Overall I believe Nationwide took sufficient steps to protect Mr R in 2018 and I cant fairly tell 
it to refund £10,000 to Mr R.
There has been to-ing and fro-ing about the two payments of £3,500 and £1,500 made in 
June and July 2019. There was initially no evidence that these payments came from Mr Rs 
Nationwide current account. Im satisfied the statements for the account ending 735 show no 
debits of this nature. Mr Rs representative has since provided us with copies of bill payment requests he made within branch. The account details differed so I went back to Nationwide 
to clarify whether Mr R held another account with them. They confirmed he did and provided 
statements for an account ending 140 to show that two payments were made to E on 
28 June and 3 July 2019.
I note with concern that despite Mr Rs representative telling Nationwide what they were 
complaining about in early 2022, including these two payments, they were never correctly 
identified. Im now in no doubt Mr R did indeed make these two payments as he claimed. 
Whilst Nationwide didnt properly consider the payments in 2019 as they were  rather 
bizarrely  unable to identify them, Im satisfied I can come to a conclusion about them. 
These were part of Mr Rs original complaint.
Theres no dispute these payments were domestic payments made after the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code came into effect on 28 May 2019. Nationwide is one of the 
original signatories to the Code. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied these payments would fall under the Code. I believe its fair and reasonable to 
ask Nationwide to refund £5,000 to Mr R.
I am also asking Nationwide to add 8% simple interest to that amount from the date the two 
amounts debited Mr Rs account until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Nationwide Building Society to:
refund £5,000 to Mr R; and
add 8% simple interest a year to £3,500 from 28 June 2019 and to £1,500 from 3 
July 2019 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman