DRN-4140504
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the service Barclays Bank UK PLC provided after she fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, and I 
will explain why. Before I do so, I want to acknowledge that I understand my decision will be 
disappointing to Mrs P. But based on the evidence I am not persuaded that Barclays ought 
to refund the disputed transactions.
A bank is required to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make which are in line with the terms and conditions of a customers account. But there are 
some situations where banks ought to have been aware that something wasnt right about 
the circumstances surrounding a transaction. So, in some circumstances its reasonable to 
expect a bank to double-check payment instructions that ought reasonably to trigger 
concerns as to whether they are unusual or uncharacteristic for a consumer. However, there 
is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, 
verses minimising disruption to legitimate transaction requests. 
Bearing this in mind, and having considered the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Barclays systems to have been triggered by the payment 
in dispute. I say this because, the amounts in question were for £400 and £800. So, neither 
amount was remarkably large or significantly uncharacteristic of Mrs Ps usual spending. 
I have also considered the retailer the payments were made to; and there were no 
suspicious circumstances surrounding this either. Consequently, I dont think Barclays could 
reasonably have known that these payments were subject of a scam. The payments were 
not significant enough to have triggered its systems; nor were there sufficient grounds to 
justify delaying the payments.
That said, I can see that Barclays sent text messages to Mrs P asking her to verify both 
payments. Barclays evidence shows that both payments were verified. From Barclays 
perspective, in order for the payment to go ahead and be verified by someone who wasnt 
Mrs P, someone would have had to have been able to access Mrs Ps debit card and be 
able to access (and unlock) her mobile device to authorise the payment. If the payments 
hadnt been verified, they wouldnt have gone through.
On balance, I am persuaded that Barclays authentication process provided a proportionate 
response to this particular payment instruction. As I have explained above, I dont think it 
was reasonable to expect Barclays to have taken further precautions with these payments.  
In other words, the bank checked for authentication and Mrs P did follow Barclays process 
and verified the payment. Therefore, Barclays saw no compelling reason to double-check 
what it knew to be an authorised payment. 
Ive also borne in mind that if banks such as Barclays were to be expected to intervene with 
every payment of a similar size to the ones being disputed here, it could risk grinding the 
banking system to a halt.
Taking everything into consideration, I do not think Barclays could have reasonably been 
expected to do anything further before these payments were completed. 
I am also aware that Mrs P remains unhappy that the temporary funds were removed from 
her account. And while she did receive a letter explaining that they would be, Mrs P received 
this sometime after the funds were removed. I appreciate Mrs P remains unhappy with this. 
But Barclays did in fact send a letter to advise that the funds would be removed. While I do 
not dispute that Mrs P didnt receive it until the funds had already been removed, I dont think 
its reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for the potential failures of the postal service.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint  so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman