DRN-2318948
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold 
them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000 when they 
applied for a joint mortgage.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs R said they had declined PPI and yet BOS still added it to their mortgage 
account. They also said Mr G had very good sick pay benefits, so the PPI was not suitable 
for their needs. They conclude the policy was mis-sold. 
The policy only covered Mr G, so sometimes I will only mention him. But I will refer to Mr 
G and Mrs R wherever appropriate.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld because she thought BOS 
hadn't mis-sold the policy. Mr G and Mrs R disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
asked for the matter to be looked at again.
Mr G produced a copy of a letter from his previous employer confirming he would have 
received full pay if hed been off sick for up to a period of three years and would pay 50% 
of his salary thereafter.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2020 where I explained why I thought Mr Gs 
and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to all 
parties and invited them to comment or produce any new evidence before I made my final 
decision. Both parties have received a copy of my provisional decision and have indicated 
they are ready to proceed to the next stage. I have not received any new evidence from 
either party, and I have not been asked to change my view, so I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs and Mrs R's case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr G and Mrs R's complaint and Ill explain why.
BOS said it was an advised sale. So BOS needed to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr G and Mrs R and that they had enough information about the policy.
I dont know exactly what was said to Mr G and Mrs R during the meeting when they 
bought PPI. And I dont know how BOS explained and assessed the suitability of how the 
policy was beneficial to them in the light of Mr Gs sick pay entitlement.
I think this would have mattered to Mr G and Mrs R because Mr G said he would have 
received his full pay for a period of up to three years, and then it would be reduced to 50% 
thereafter if he had been off sick. The company which employed him at the time was no 
longer trading. But he produced a letter from his previous employer (now a director of 
another company) which confirmed Mr Gs sick pay entitlement at the time of the PPI sale. 
The PPI policy could have covered Mr G for a period of 24 months if he made a successful 
claim.
So I think they could have met their mortgage repayments for longer than the policy. I dont 
think Mr G and Mrs R would have bought the policy if theyd known it was not going to be 
beneficial for them. So, I think Mr G and Mrs R have lost out because of what BOS did 
wrong.
Taking into account everything Ive read and been told, I think its fair to accept what Mr G 
and Mrs R have said. I think Mr G would have had enough sick pay to mean they didnt 
really need the policy. So I dont think Mr G and Mrs R would have bought it if theyd been 
better advised and had more detailed information about it.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc should put Mr G and Mrs R in the financial position theyd be in now 
if they hadnt taken out PPI. So Bank of Scotland plc should:
refund to Mr G and Mrs S all the premiums they paid towards the PPI policy, and
pay 8% simple interest on these premiums, calculated from when each payment 
was made to the date when its refunded to Mr G and Mrs R*
If Mr G has made a claim on the policy in the past, Bank of Scotland plc can take 
the value of that claim off the compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland plc to take off tax from this 
interest. Bank of Scotland plc must give Mr G and Mrs R a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc should put things 
right for Mr G and Mrs R as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman