DRN-2890697
The complaint
Ms F complains, through her representative, that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company 
Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mutuals table in the final response letter (FRL) sent to Ms Fs complaint has been the 
information used to create this table. 
Loan Approval date Amount Term in weeks x 
£repay (rounded)Repaid date
1 11 January 2014 £500 51 x £14
2 25 March 2015 £800 51 x £22 16 March 2016
3 20 June 2015 £500 51 x £14 4 May 2016- £100 
refinanced into Loan 6
4 10 October 2015 £500 51 x £14 18 May 2016  repaid 
early £30 ESB
5 12 March 2016 £300 51 x £8 18 January 2017
6 7 May 2016 £1,200 102 x £18 18 July 2018
7 14 January 2017 £500 51 x £14 20 September 2017 -
repaid early £15 ESB
8 23 September 2017 £1,000 102 x £15 Outstanding *
*According to Mutual in August 2020, Loan 8 remained outstanding  about £872 owed.
Mutual responded to Ms Fs complaint by claiming that the first loan was out of our 
jurisdiction. Mutual did not uphold her complaint in relation to the other loans. Ms F referred 
it to this Service.
Loan 1 has been decided as being out of this Services jurisdiction. This was before
the complaint was passed to me and I make no further point on that. However, it remains 
relevant in relation to the overall lending history.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things
right for Ms F in relation to loans 6 to 8. Her view was that the overall pattern of borrowing
suggested Ms F had become persistently reliant on this form of borrowing. Mutual disagreed
and sent comprehensive submissions as to why.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loan 1 will not be considered by me, as the decision on whether its in jurisdiction has been 
made already. 
Ms Fs representative has not disagreed with our adjudicators view and so I take it from that, 
Loans 2 to 5 are no longer in dispute. So, this decision will review loans 6 to 8, within the 
context of the other lending. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues, and our general
approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail
about those here. But a brief summary is given later in this decision.
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost 
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and
issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published
documents, its view on the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and 
the provision of graphs to compare its repayments with other high cost credit lenders.
I have read all Mutuals submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has 
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions. 
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Ms Fs circumstances or complaint I have 
referred to them as necessary.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But
certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
show that the lending was unsustainable. And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Evidence from both parties 
We have very little evidence from Ms F about her financial situation at the time Mutual was 
lending to her. Her representatives Claim Audit Form includes some explanations and 
income and expenditure figures. But the facts and figures differ so much from what were 
declared on the forms when applying for the Mutual loans that I would have liked some 
verification. And Ms F says that she cannot remember quite a lot about the lending and so 
that casts into doubt her memory recall of what she has put on that Claim Audit Form. 
Additional financial information has been requested several times, but nothing has been sent 
to us by Ms F or her representative. So, I have attached little weight to these submissions 
from Ms F.
Mutual has explained a great deal about its methods and approach to lending but has sent
little documentation and therefore little actual evidence about what took place when it
approved Ms Fs loans. An example is that I have no copy statements of account to show 
how and when the loans were paid, and fully repaid, refinanced or repaid early: all I have is a 
loan table with some details inserted in the complaint FRL sent to Ms F. 
And another example is that Mutual asserts that it always carried out a credit search, and no 
copies of any search results have been forwarded. It asserts that the search for the last loan 
in 2017 did not reveal anything that would have caused it concern. Although Mutual relies on 
this, I cannot consider that to be part of its submissions as no copies/evidence have been 
provided for me to review. In the past Mutual has explained to us that it does not keep them. 
If thats the case I am unclear as to how it can review the 2017 credit search result and make 
the assertion it has if its no copies. 
And some of the information Mutual has sent in its submissions following our adjudicators 
view is incorrect. An example is that Mutual asserts that there were large gaps between the 
loans. Mutual says There is a considerable gap between the provision of loans 6, 7 and 8 of 
at least 6 months.
But this is simply not the case even applying the brief information I have received from 
Mutual. And Mutuals own coloured chart to show the timeline of the loans demonstrates that 
several loans overlapped with each other. So, the fundamental lack of factual accuracy on 
these points in turn casts doubt on the other elements of what Mutual has submitted to us, 
as most of it appears to be its view or opinion. Theres little to substantiate its claims. 
So, my decision is founded on limited information and Ive made my decision using what I 
have. Decision findings 
Some of what I have are the application forms which appear to have been 
contemporaneous. The income and expenditure information I have for the loans I am 
reviewing, loans 6 to 8, show a similar series of figures each time apart from the last one 
where Ms Fs income figure was a little higher. 
The application in late April 2016, which was the basis for loan 6 approved in early 
May 2016, does reveal that Ms F needed the money for Divorce Proceedings & Custody. 
This demonstrated a large change in her circumstances but her income was given as being 
the same as the application before when Ms F asked for credit at loan 5 a few weeks earlier. 
And there was a single line of expenditure of Board £150 M, with no other outgoings and it 
was the same as the application before. 
To rely on someones total expenditure as £150 a month for accommodation (and no other 
outgoings) seems unrealistic and/or inadequate fact gathering for Mutual to claim it had 
carried out a creditworthiness assessment to the level expected by the FCA. And by loan 6, 
two years and four months into the lending relationship, Id have expected Mutual to have 
known more. 
Looking forward, each application after that had just this one line of expenditure on it. So, its 
clear to me that Mutual did not have enough information for Ms Fs applications as these 
brief details are all that it can show me. 
In any event, I have looked at the lending relationship overall, and I agree with our 
adjudicator that Mutual ought to have ceased lending to Ms F at loan 6. By that point, Ms F 
had been in debt to Mutual for two years and four months, she still owed loan 5, she was 
applying for a much larger loan of £1,200 over two years of which £100 was to repay loan 3. 
And the proximity of the loan 6 capital and Ms F repaying loan 4 leads me to think its very 
likely she used that money from loan 6 to repay it. I think that Loan 8 was likely used to 
repay loan 7. Borrowing to repay borrowing is a sign of unsustainability. 
At the end of the lending relationship, Ms Fs repayments were over £33 a week which was 
two and a half times more than her first loan in 2014. And yet, according to Mutuals income 
and expenditure figures, her financial situation had hardly altered for years, despite Mutual 
having been informed of her divorce in or around 2016. 
The lending for loans 6 to 8 extended her indebtedness to Mutual from May 2016 to 
September 2019 at least (loan 8 was for 102 weeks) and as loan 8 remains unpaid, Ms F 
remains indebted to it now according to the Mutual information we have. 
I think that Ms F lost out when Mutual provided loans 6 to 8 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the sheer number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 8 and Ill go on to set out
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge 
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Ms F, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different 
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been 
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the Court in that 
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short 
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms F from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Ms F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms F in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms F loans 6 to 8. If it has sold the outstanding debts Mutual 
should buy these back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not 
able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms F towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mutual has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms F  which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms F as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Ms F having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Ms F. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her. 
Mutual shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already 
written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Fs borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Ms Fs credit file. 
Mutual do not have to remove loan 8 from Ms Fs credit file until it has been repaid, but 
Mutual should still remove any adverse payment information recorded about loan 8. When 
its been repaid, its to be removed.
If Mutual intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Ms F owes, it must do this after tax. 
Mutual cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt. 
*HMRC requires Mutual to take off tax from this interest. If Ms F asks Mutual for a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off, Mutual should provide this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Fs complaint in part and I direct that Mutual Clothing 
and Supply Company Limited does as I have outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman