DRN-3081423
The complaint
Mr S complained that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
UK Credit provided Mr S with a loan as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
Repayment
05/04/2018 £6,000 36 months £268.20
Mr S ran into payment problems on the loan and I understand the loan defaulted around a 
year later with an outstanding balance owing of £5,318. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint and set out the steps UK Credit needed to take to 
put things right. 
Mr S would like the complaint to be settled in the way our investigator recommended.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators view. 
In brief summary, it said that although didnt do all it couldve done to establish whether the 
loan would be affordable for Mr S, based on the checks that were carried out during the sale 
of the loan, and information gathered since, there wasnt sufficient evidence to suggest that 
the loan was unaffordable. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Ss loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did UK Credit then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Like our investigator, I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided the loan. Ill explain why 
I say this.
UK Credit asked Mr S some questions about his income and expenditure. UK Credit did its 
own checks, which included electronic verification of Mr Ss income and obtaining 
information about Mr Ss credit history. UK Credit relied on statistical information about how 
much someone in Mr Ss position typically spent each month on living costs. 
UK Credit recorded a figure of £1,550 for Mr Ss take home pay. 
It used national average figures to reflect his living costs and took into account that he paid 
£100 boarding costs. 
Mr S told UK Credit that the loan was for debt consolidation  in other words, he would be 
using it to pay other existing debt, which he discussed at some length with UK Credit. 
After allowing for Mr S spending around £384 on the other credit commitments UK Credit 
expected Mr S to have after taking out its loan, UK Credit worked out that, after making the monthly repayments for this loan, Mr S would still have around £382 spare cash. So the loan 
looked comfortably affordable for him. 
I've taken into account what UK Credit has said about how it calculated the affordability 
of this loan before it agreed to lend to Mr S. But, I dont think UK Credit made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Mr S based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because UK Credit was able to see from its credit checks that Mr S already 
had:
around £4,160 owing on four credit cards which were all close to their limit  by 
my reckoning means he had used 98% of the available credit on these cards
another credit card £67 over its £2,000 credit limit and one instalment in 
arrears
two loans with a total balance owing of £4,700
so he owed more than £10,000 to existing creditors, which I think was a lot for 
someone in Mr Ss particular position, bearing in mind that he told UK Credit he 
paid just £50 or so towards his share of household bills and £100 for board.
I've carefully listened to the call recording when UK Credit ran through its affordability 
checks with Mr S and discussed the information on its credit checks. I have noted 
Mr Ss explanation for the arears on his credit card. UK Credit was also aware that 
Mr S owed £1,000 to a family member  and that he intended to use the loan it 
provided to repay that debt. 
I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about what this credit history showed 
about Mr Ss overall financial situation. I think UK Credit should have considered more 
carefully why someone with the amount of disposable income its checks suggested 
Mr S had would have needed to make use of expensive credit the way it could see 
Mr S was doing. And I dont think, based on what UK Credit had in front of it, I can 
fairly say that UK Credit saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Mr S was going to 
be able to make the repayments for this loan in a sustainable way  and so it shouldnt 
have provided it.
UK Credit accepts that its checks werent sufficient  but said that its lending decision 
was nonetheless still fair. So I've also looked at bank statements and a credit report 
provided by Mr S which I think are a useful guide to understanding Mr Ss overall 
financial situation  and I am aware that UK Credit has now also seen these.
UK Credit doesnt consider that the bank statements demonstrate that the loans were 
unaffordable. But I think, if UK Credit had done a proportionate check before lending, it 
wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan was going to be sustainably affordable for 
Mr S. I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month 
that UK Credit had calculated, in reality Mr S was boosting his bank account with expensive 
short-term loans  his credit report shows that he had taken out at least six short-term loans 
in the previous 6 months  two of them the previous month and another just a few days 
before UK Credits loan. 
I think UK Credit will be aware that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers 
credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday 
and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies  and some lenders use 
credit data from a number of different credit reference agencies. So, this may explain 
differences between UK Credits own credit checks and all the details shown on Mr Ss credit 
report.UK Credit could have seen on Mr Ss bank statements that he took out loans for £300 and 
£100 in March 2018, a £70 loan in February 2018 and a £650 loan in January 2018 from 
another provider of high cost credit.
Despite this, his bank statements show that Mr S was struggling to keep his account in credit 
and he was incurring daily overdraft fees.
All of this should have led UK Credit to the conclusion that Mr S was not managing his 
financial situation effectively. And I think that UK Credit shouldve realised that this loan 
wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Mr S when he was already struggling to get 
through the month without needing to rely on credit, not making any real headway towards 
clearing his outstanding debts, and he had other new debt that needed to be paid alongside 
this loan from UK Credit. 
Mr S intended to use this loan to consolidate some of his other debts. I've also taken into 
account that UK Credit did impress upon Mr S the importance of doing this since it had 
assessed affordability on the basis that he would apply the loan as discussed  and it looks 
like Mr S did indeed clear some of his other credit.
But this doesnt affect my overall view that the loan was unfairly provided. I say this because 
even if Mr S had used UK Credits loan to repay existing debt as discussed, plus £1,000 to 
his mother as he planned, this would only have taken £5000 off his overall indebtedness 
shown on credit report which totalled £10,927  and that wasnt the full extent of Mr Ss 
actual debt.
Even if Mr S had put all the loan towards paying debt shown on UK Credits credit checks it 
still wasnt enough to make any real impact on his overall debt. I think the scale of his debts, 
compared to the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that he would remain in 
serious financial trouble regardless. The new monthly repayments for this loan didnt 
represent any real cash monthly saving for Mr S. Given the extent he had been relying on 
credit before this loan, it wouldnt have been reasonable for UK Credit to think that losing the 
flexibility Mr S had to reduce his spending on credit by making just the minimum monthly 
repayments to credit cards and instead being committed to paying £268.20 for its loan was 
likely to be sustainably affordable.
And I think thats borne out by what followed. UK Credit has agreed that Mr S's credit 
position has since worsened but said there was no evidence to suggest that was a result of 
UK Credit's decision to lend to him as he consolidated the loan he stated he would, his 
arrears don't appear to have started until the end of 2018 and Mr S did not take out further 
credit immediately following the UK Credit loan. 
But Mr Ss credit report shows that just two months after taking out this loan with UK Credit 
he was taking out loans with multiple other lenders  he took over twenty payday and 
unsecured loans within six months of taking the loan with UK Credit. 
And whilst UK Credit has said it cant be held accountable if Mr S chose to take out further 
credit after its loan, I disagree. 
I dont think UK Credit saw enough to be satisfied that providing this loan to Mr S would help 
him improve his overall financial situation and it was reasonably foreseeable that the loan 
would most likely put further pressure on Mr Ss already over-stretched finances. And had 
UK Credit done more in-depth checks, it would have seen information that confirmed he was already in serious financial difficulty. So I dont think UK Credit should have agreed to give 
this loan to Mr S.
As Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what UK Credit did wrong. So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
I appreciate the time and trouble UK Credit has taken to engage with our investigator and 
provide its detailed responses to this complaint. But for all the reasons I have explained 
above, I think it is fair and reasonable for UK Credit to take the following steps to put 
things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. 
UK Credit has sent some detailed responses to comments I made in my provisional decision 
and disagreed with my conclusions. To sum up, UK Credits view is that its income and 
expenditure assessment showed the loan repayments would be affordable based on Mr Ss 
circumstances  and if his circumstances changed or he did not consolidate the credit he 
said was the purpose of his borrowing then the loan may have become unaffordable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Im grateful to UK Credit for responding in detail to my provisional decision. I would like to 
assure UK Credit that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said, including 
comments made in response to my provisional decision. But UK Credit hasnt provided me 
with any new information that changes what I think about this case. Id already considered 
and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the outcome and after taking 
everything carefully into account, and as no further comments have been received in 
response to my provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its 
fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed when he took out the loan. But he has had to pay interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him  which isnt fair or reasonable. 
With this in mind, UK Credit should: add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the 
loan (not including anything already refunded).The payments Mr S made should 
be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan 
when it is paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman