DRN-1870858
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) provided him 
with inaccurate information around the options available to him when he was thinking of 
drawing the benefits from his pension. Hes unhappy that hes had to pay advice costs to use 
another provider for the drawdown option he originally wanted. Hes also complained that he 
was told the relevant call recordings werent available to be listened to as evidence, yet 
those recordings have now been located. 
What happened
Mr W held a personal pension with Prudential. The plan was due to mature in June 2019, so 
Mr W began discussions with Prudential  initially through one of its financial advisers, about 
his retirement options. Mr W had a number of (telephone) meetings with Prudential and 
Pension Wise and thought that taking his tax-free cash and a drawdown option would be in 
his best interests. When Prudential appeared to confirm that option was available to him in a 
call with another adviser Mr W thought that was the right course of action for him.
He contacted Prudential the next day to begin the process but was told that his existing plan 
didnt allow partial withdrawals. He was told that he either had to take the benefits in the form 
of an annuity or transfer the entire fund to a new product  which would incur advice costs. 
So Mr W complained. He said he thought hed been misled by the adviser whod suggested 
that he could use his existing plan to draw tax free cash if needed and then to enter into 
drawdown. He said he didnt think it was fair to have to pay advice fees to transfer to a 
different product with Prudential, which did facilitate drawdown.
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said his plan didnt allow partial withdrawals to 
be made and that an annuity was the only option available at retirement. It said it had made 
a commercial decision to require plans, such as Mr Ws, to be transferred to drawdown 
products in order to allow partial withdrawals and it insisted that customers took financial 
advice (at their own expense) to be able to conduct a transfer. Prudential didnt think that the 
adviser had told Mr W that his plan facilitated partial withdrawals. But it said the calls had 
been made from the advisers mobile phone and therefore werent recorded. 
Prudential further explained that as Mr W had already discussed its advice proposition in the 
first telephone call  and he had suggested he didnt want to pay for advice, the other 
telephone conversations were generic in nature and didnt form the basis of any firm advice. 
But Mr W wasnt happy with that outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said he thought the adviser might have given the 
impression that Mr W could take partial withdrawals from his plan and he believed there was 
a misunderstanding during the conversation. He also believed the adviser could have been 
clearer in explaining that he would need to check with an appropriate team first. 
Because of that and the fact that Mr W was told the call recordings werent available  which 
they subsequently were, the investigator thought Prudential should pay Mr W £150 for the 
inconvenience caused. But he was satisfied that Mr Ws plan didnt contain an option for 
partial withdrawals and so it wasnt possible for Mr W to use that alternative (drawdown) to 
take his benefits. He said Prudential didnt have to allow the partial drawdowns or cover any 
of Mr Ws advice costs.
But Mr W didnt agree. He was particularly unhappy that Prudential had lied about not having 
the call recordings and asked for a copy of them. Having listened to the recordings he 
thought that the adviser had given him advice and had suggested that he could take 
withdrawals from his plan for a cost of 0.5%. He thought the investigator should increase the 
compensation to £4,870 (the cost of advice Prudential had originally quoted to him). 
 
Prudential also didnt agree. It said that as Mr W had already received advice the 
conversation it had with Mr W on 13 June 2019 was a general conversation and informed 
Mr W of what he might be able to do with his plan. But it said there were no specifics and 
indeed it was Mr W that had introduced the idea of drawdown plans and partial withdrawals. 
It didnt think it should pay Mr W £150.
So as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know 
this outcome will disappoint both parties, so Ill explain my reasons.
Should Prudential pay Mr Ws advice costs and put him into a drawdown plan?
Prudentials personal pension scheme members booklet which was available to Mr W 
when he took out his plan states pension benefit- when you decide to draw your pension, 
the value of your accumulated fund will be used to purchase a pension on the Prudentials 
then current annuity rates for the scheme. A variety of options were then listed with one 
further option for protected rights benefits. 
So it was clear that the type of pension Mr W took out only allowed him to take an income 
with the residual fund after drawing the tax-free cash. Taking partial withdrawals or some 
form of income drawdown wasnt possible under the terms of the plan. Of course, the 
legislation around pensions has changed many times since Mr W took out his plan but the 
rules that applied to his pension didnt allow him to take advantage of those changes without 
transferring the entire fund elsewhere.
Regardless of any information Prudential may have given Mr W to the contrary, it simply 
wasnt possible for him to take partial withdrawals from his existing plan in retirement, and it 
wouldnt be fair for me to tell Prudential that it should now allow Mr W to be able to make 
partial withdrawals. So I dont think Prudential needs to do anything further on that matter. 
Mr W has complained about the advice fee that he would incur  either from Prudential or 
another adviser if he transferred the funds to a drawdown contract. But as Ive said the 
option for drawdown wasnt available on his plan so to in order to be able to access a 
drawdown arrangement either through Prudential or with another provider Mr W would 
always have had to pay for advice. 
Did Prudential provide incorrect information about Mr Ws benefit options?Mr W says Prudential did tell him that a partial withdrawal option was available from his plan 
and he also says thats its not been able to provide him with the call recordings that he 
believes prove what hes saying is correct. Mr W has made strong representations about 
Prudentials inability to find the recordings.
But Prudential has now provided recordings of the two calls that took place when Mr W 
needed help and information prior to choosing his retirement options. 
So Ive listened very carefully to those calls, to see if theres any suggestion that it did 
promote the idea that partial withdrawals from his pension plan were an option. In the first 
instance the adviser did state clearly, when talking about drawdown, that option is available 
to you but its not available from your existing contract, you would need to set up a new 
contract and you could absolutely do it. So, I think the adviser did initially set out that Mr Ws 
contract was restrictive and wouldnt allow a drawdown facility to be taken from it directly. 
But Mr W was interested in the drawdown options and particularly in the possibility of taking 
an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS). He continued to ask, if I wanted to do 
that is there a charge (say £4,870) would I need to pay £4,870 to start it. He was told that 
he wouldnt and when Mr W asked if he could stay in his current fund to do that he adviser 
said you would be staying in the current contract -the current contract could support that for 
you and if you do that via your current contract youre not having to pay adviser fees to set 
up a new contract.
I think at that point the conversation became confusing especially as Mr W was focused on 
whether he could take an UFPLS. I dont think the adviser made it clear enough at that point 
that he was talking about the situation that might be possible if Mr W had transferred his 
existing pension into a flexible access drawdown. I think he needed to confirm the need to 
transfer out of the existing plan and the advice costs that would entail. Although Ive also 
taken into account that on several occasions the adviser told Mr W that as Mr W didnt 
require any money at that time, he didnt think it was appropriate at that point to recommend 
a drawdown plan.
I think the adviser was clear on that matter. And because of his earlier statement Im not 
persuaded that the adviser thought Mr W could use his existing plan to enter into drawdown 
or that he directly said that was something Mr W could do. But I think his message did 
become confusing and I can understand why Mr W might have understood that he could 
take an UFPLS from his existing contract and not paid any advice fees. With regards to the 
fees I think the adviser was explaining that Mr W wouldnt have any ongoing fees if he 
requested the withdrawals himself from a new drawdown contract, but I think he could have 
been clearer on that point. So I think that Prudential could have been clearer in its 
explanations and I can see why Mr W thought he could use his existing contract. I think 
Prudential should compensate Mr W for the raised expectation its information might have 
caused.
 
Mr W says hes frustrated by Prudential misleading him over the call recordings and thinks 
Prudential should face punishment over its actions. And I can certainly understand why 
Mr W would be angry about the matter particularly as the recordings have now been located. 
I note that at the beginning of the calls the adviser explained that, as he was using his 
landline, the calls were being recorded for training purposes. So, its not clear to me why 
Mr W was told there werent any recordings when he first requested them, and I can 
understand why Mr W would have expected them to be available.
However, our role isnt to tell a business how it should go about things and its not to punish 
a business either. In this case Im just considering the impact Prudentials actions have had on Mr Ws situation and whether that warrants the award of a compensatory payment for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Summary
Ultimately here Mr Ws plan didnt allow for any other retirement options except an annuity. 
Mr W favoured a drawdown option which therefore, whether with Prudential or another 
provider, would have incurred advice costs which he would have had to pay. But Prudential 
did speak to Mr W about his options and the question of an UFPLS was raised which I think 
led to some confusion about what options Mr W had. For that lack of clarity and for not 
providing Mr W with the call recordings he requested, I agree with the investigator that 
Prudential should compensate Mr W for the impact those matters had on him. 
Putting things right
Ive considered the distress caused by Prudentials failure to listen to the call recordings  
that have subsequently become available, in initially answering Mr Ws complaint. And the 
trouble and upset arising from the unclear information he was given on the telephone. 
So I agree with the investigator and overall I think the sum of £150 is within the range of 
what Id expect to see for matters such as these. So, I think Prudential should pay Mr W 
£150. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold part of Mr Ws complaint against The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman