DRN-3170687
The complaint
Ms E and Miss M complain about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited handled a claim Ms
M made on a group private medical insurance policy. Ms E also complains that she wasnt
able to cancel her policy when she wished to do so. And that BUPA has retained the
premiums she paid through her salary during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Ms E holds private medical insurance as a benefit of her employers group scheme. Miss M
was a dependent beneficiary under the policy.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic.
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS.
In late April, Ms E called BUPA as Miss M was experiencing symptoms including dizziness,
blackouts and bleeding. BUPA directed Ms E to its virtual GP service. The GP concluded
that Miss M required blood tests and so BUPA pre-authorised the costs.
However, as Miss Ms preferred hospital had been requisitioned by the NHS, it was unable
to carry out the blood tests. So Ms E called back to ask for help in finding a different hospital
to undertake the tests. The call cut out though while the call handler was looking into options
and despite Ms E asking for a call back if that happened, no call back was made. Miss M
was later able to access treatment via a referral from her own GP.
Ms E was unhappy with the way BUPA had handled her claim. She felt its service had been
poor and that shed had to make numerous calls. She considered itd been unreasonable for
BUPA to continue to take premiums when it wasnt providing the same level of service. And
she said shed tried to cancel the policy, but her employer had informed her that this could
only happen during its own benefit renewal window.
BUPA acknowledged that it ought to have called Ms E back after the call cut off. So it paid
her £50 compensation to recognise the inconvenience this had caused. Ms E remained
unhappy with BUPAs administration of her policy though and she asked us to look
into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Ms E and Miss Ms complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt
think BUPA was required to refund the premiums Ms E had paid for cover during the
pandemic. And he also concluded that BUPA wasnt responsible for Ms Es employers
decision about when certain benefits could be cancelled. But he didnt think BUPA had
handled Ms Es claim fairly. He felt that by failing to call Ms E back when she was already
worried about Miss Ms health, BUPA had caused additional distress. So he recommended
that BUPA should pay Ms E and Miss M £200 total compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt plan to uphold Ms E and Miss Ms complaint. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Ms E and Miss M that while Ive summarised the background to
their complaint and Ms Es responses, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us.
In making my decision though, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues  a) did BUPA
handle the claim fairly, b) should BUPA refund the premiums Ms E paid during the pandemic
and c) has BUPA unreasonably failed to cancel Ms Es policy? Ill deal with each of these
questions in turn.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
Ms Es complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of her contract with
BUPA, as well as other relevant considerations such as the law, the regulators rules and
industry guidance.
Did BUPA handle the claim fairly?
Like our investigator, Ive listened to the calls that BUPA has provided between Ms E, Miss
M and BUPA. Its clear from those calls that Ms E was very concerned about Miss Ms
symptoms and that she called a number of departments within BUPA to try and arrange
investigations.
In my view, BUPA largely responded fairly and promptly to Ms Es concerns. The original call
handler directed Ms E to the relevant department which was likely best placed to answer her
medical queries and a nurse from that area called Ms E back promptly. In the meantime, Ms
E had already been given details of the virtual GP and understood that a referral would need
to be obtained. Indeed, Miss M spoke to the virtual GP and obtained the referral that
professional felt she needed, given her symptoms.
I appreciate Miss M had some difficulties in logging on to the online GP  but it seems to me
that BUPA took reasonable steps to try and assist her. The issues seem to have been with
the virtual provider rather than BUPA and would appear to have been resolved fairly
promptly, given Miss M was able to speak to the GP and obtain a referral. Once BUPA was
made aware of what tests Miss M needed, it issued her with a pre-authorisation code, so she
could arrange the tests and payment with the hospital. This is in line with the terms and
conditions of Ms Es policy and what I wouldve expected BUPA to do.
Its unfortunate that Miss Ms chosen hospital was unable to facilitate the blood tests due to
Covid-19. Its important I make clear that BUPA doesnt own that hospital and that the fact it
wasnt offering this service due to Covid-19 was beyond its control. I would expect in such a
situation that BUPA would look to assist a policyholder in finding an alternative provider. It
appears that BUPA was intending to take such an action at the point its call with Ms E cut
out.
BUPA accepts it shouldve called Ms E back and so it acknowledges it made a clear error
here. So I agree that its fair that compensation should be paid to recognise the impact this
mistake had on Ms E and Miss M and Ive thought about this carefully. Having listened to the
call, I dont doubt Ms E and Miss M were upset and worried. And I accept that BUPAs failure
to call back did add to their overall worry. But I also think it was open to Ms E to call BUPA
back to try and obtain this information. She was in contact with BUPA a couple of days later
to complain about the service and so she couldve reiterated her request at this point, even if
she didnt want to call back.
Ive borne in mind too that at this point in time, many businesses were trying to get to grips
with working from home and taking calls remotely, which I think is likely to have impacted to
some extent on service. And Im also mindful that instead of taking up the referral, Miss Minstead saw her own GP and obtained a referral through the NHS. Theres no medical
evidence either to suggest that BUPAs failure to call Ms E back caused Miss M any
complications or worsening of her condition.
So in the round, aside from the failure to call Ms E back, Im satisfied that BUPA met its
obligations under the policy terms and its clear it had accepted Miss M had a valid claim. It
also took broad steps to assist Ms E given the exceptional circumstances presented by
Covid-19. So in my view, BUPAs apology and £50 compensation is sufficient to recognise
the impact of its mistake on Ms E and Miss M. This means I dont think, in the round, that it
would be fair and reasonable for me to direct BUPA to pay any additional compensation.
Should BUPA refund Ms Es premiums?
Ms Es employer is the main cover-holder of this policy and Ms E is a beneficiary of the
policy via payments which are deducted from her salary. Her employer renews the policy on
an annual basis for a term of one year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of
an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to
retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no successful
claim has been made under the policy. In this case, Ms E did make a successful claim under
the policy for Miss Ms diagnostic tests. But even if she hadnt, BUPA is entitled to retain the
premiums for the time it was insuring the risk of Ms E or the other beneficiaries making a
claim.
I dont think its accurate to say Ms Es policy was unusable during the pandemic. As Ive set
out above, Ms E (and Miss M) had access to a virtual GP, who was able to provide her with
a referral and BUPA agreed to cover the cost of the tests they recommended. I wouldnt
ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical services
were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. BUPA doesnt own or operate
the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of insurer 
approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of BUPAs
control.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to
require BUPA to refund the premiums Ms E paid through her salary during the pandemic. If
BUPA does decide a rebate is due on this policy in line with the criteria it has set out, it
would be payable to Ms Es employer and not to her directly.
Should BUPA have cancelled Ms Es policy?
Ive looked closely at the cancellation terms set out in the contract. These say:
If you wish to end your membership (and therefore that of your dependants) the following
terms apply: You may end your membership (and therefore the membership of your
dependants) by informing the sponsor within 21 days of either:
 the date you receive your terms and conditions (including your membership
certificate) confirming your cover, or
 your cover start date whichever is the later. During this 21 day period if you have not
made any claims we will refund to the sponsor all of the subscriptions the sponsor
has paid for you for that year.
After this 21 day period you can end your membership (and therefore the membership
of all your dependants) by informing the sponsor at any time during the year. In which
case we will refund to the sponsor any subscriptions the sponsor has paid for you that relate
to the period after your membership ends. (Bold is my emphasis).In this case, Ms Es sponsor is her employer. I think the terms make it clear then that Ms E
needs to tell her employer if she wishes to cancel the policy, rather than directly arranging it
with BUPA. Ive seen emails between Ms E and her employer which show that she wasnt
able to change the benefit during the employers (benefit) enrolment period. It seems to me
then that Ms Es inability to cancel the policy when she wished to was down to her
employers own processes rather than because of any failure on BUPAs part. I appreciate
Ms E has since removed Miss M and another beneficiary from her cover, which indicates
that ultimately, she was able to make the changes to the policy through her employer. But as
Ive set out, I find BUPA made no error on this point.
Overall, Ive currently decided that BUPA doesnt need to do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted me to consider.
Ms E disagreed on behalf of herself and Miss M. She provided a detailed response to my 
provisional decision, which Ive summarised below:
I hadnt fully understood the facts of the case or the actions shed taken. Id also 
over-simplified the background to the complaint;
Id taken the view that shed simply failed to follow-up on authorised tests, but this 
wasnt true. Shed tried to arrange blood tests with various hospitals and had failed. 
Hospitals simply werent offering this service anywhere near her home. This meant 
BUPA had provided her with misleading and unhelpful information. She also found 
my suggestion that she couldve called BUPA back after the call cut out very 
insulting, as shed been at her wits-end;
Ms E had found alternative private hospital numbers herself. These hospitals had 
been shocked when shed tried to arrange the blood tests, as theyd been taken over 
by the NHS. Miss M had ultimately been admitted to hospital by the NHS;
She hadnt chosen not to take-up the referral  she couldnt get anywhere with it and 
so it had been worthless.
She felt the outcome reached by the investigator had been the fairest outcome for all 
parties. She was paying premiums to a company which couldnt provide her with the 
blood tests, but which couldnt tell her that upfront;
I had sought to absolve BUPA of its contractual obligations and she didnt think a 
referral constituted a successful claim;
Shed undertaken research which showed that insurers had continued to make huge 
profits despite the pandemic, which she felt should be taken into account;
She had had no communication with BUPA in relation to the rebate it had promised 
on its website. If any rebate was paid to her employer, it should pass this on to her;
BUPA had failed to communicate appropriately during the pandemic;
BUPA had known Ms E wanted to amend her policy and so had her employer. She 
queried whether BUPAs customer service team shouldve supported her in this 
request.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms E and Miss M, Ive decided not to uphold 
their complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to thank Ms E for her detailed responses to my provisional decision. Although 
Ive summarised the points Ms E made and focused on the key issues within this final 
decision, I read and considered her submissions carefully before reaching this outcome.
The referral
Im sorry if Ms E and Miss M feel that I skimmed the facts of their complaint in my provisional 
decision. I can assure them that I took everything both sides had provided into account when 
considering this complaint in order to reach an independent and impartial decision.
It's clear that the requisitioning of private hospitals by the NHS as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic did have a significant impact on the ability of providers to offer private medical 
treatment. As I set out in my provisional decision, this was outside of the control of BUPA 
and other insurers. Treatments were inevitably delayed. 
In this case, I understand that Miss M was suffering from worrying symptoms and I can 
entirely understand why both she and Ms E wanted these symptoms to be investigated 
urgently. I think BUPA responded appropriately by referring Miss M to the virtual GP and 
also by authorising the cost of the blood tests that the GP had recommended.  Im satisfied 
that by agreeing to cover the costs of the required blood tests being taken privately, BUPA 
was acting in line with the terms of the contract as Id expect it to do. And I also think that a 
pre-authorisation code for treatment  BUPAs effective promise to pay agreed costs  can 
fairly be treated as a successful claim on Ms Es policy.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Ms Es preferred hospital was unable to carry out 
the blood test. I dont doubt how frustrating and worrying this mustve been for both Ms E 
and Miss M. But I do think BUPA was trying to explore alternative options with Ms E. And 
Ive also made it clear that I think BUPA did let Ms E down when it didnt call her back after 
the call cut out, despite its promise to do so. I appreciate Ms E tried to find hospitals directly 
and I understand that on top of her natural concern about Miss Ms health, this wouldve 
caused her additional inconvenience. I sympathise with her position.
Im still satisfied though that the £50 compensation and apology BUPA offered Ms E and 
Miss M to recognise this mistake was fair in the circumstances. I dont think I can fairly hold 
BUPA responsible for the fact that private hospitals near Ms E werent in a position to carry 
out the tests that Miss M needed. It could simply agree to cover the costs and try to locate 
hospitals which generally offered such private blood testing. While it mightve been helpful if 
BUPA had suggested that Miss M might experience difficulties in getting the tests done 
privately and to suggest she seek NHS treatment, I still think it was contractually obliged to 
agree to pay the cost of the tests being carried out privately, in line with the policy terms. 
And that it was appropriate for it to try and look into other private hospital options so that the 
test could be done.
I entirely understand the reasons why Ms E chose to instead focus on a GP and NHS 
referral for Miss M, given the difficulties shed experienced in finding a private facility to carry 
out the tests. But I do still think it was open to her to get back in touch with BUPA following 
the cut-off of the call if she required further help. Im sorry to hear Miss M required urgent 
treatment and I appreciate what a stressful and worrying time this mustve been for her and 
for her family. I hope shes made a full recovery. But I havent seen any medical evidence to show me that any delay in directing Ms E and Miss M to the NHS caused Miss Ms condition 
to worsen.
This means that Im not directing BUPA to pay any additional compensation.
Should BUPA refund Ms Es premiums?
As I explained in my provisional decision, insurance policies are designed to cover the risk of 
uncertain events happening during the life of a contract. And insurers are entitled to retain 
the premiums theyve been paid to cover that risk. So while I accept how strongly Ms E feels 
that BUPA has benefited from the pandemic, Im satisfied it has no contractual obligation to 
refund any of the premiums she paid.
With that said, should BUPA decide any rebate is due, as Ms Es employer is the cover-
holder here, it would need to pay any rebate directly to Ms Es employer. Whether or not Ms 
Es employer passed on any such rebate to individual employees is a matter of its discretion 
and isnt BUPAs responsibility.
I understand Ms E feels that BUPA couldve provided better communication and that it 
couldve helped her to amend her policy. But the policy terms are clear that changes need to 
be made through Ms Es employer. Therefore, BUPA had no contractual authority to change 
the terms of the cover directly with Ms E. It seems that the delay in amending the policy was 
down to Ms Es employers own processes  which again, arent something I can hold BUPA 
responsible for. 
Overall, I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms E and Miss M and I do 
sympathise with the position they found themselves in. But I think the compensation and 
apology BUPA offered them is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I dont 
require BUPA to pay Ms E any refund of the premiums she paid through her salary during 
the pandemic.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E, Mr M and 
Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman