DRN-1176299
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained that the total loss settlement Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
paid when he claimed under his car insurance policy is too low.
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P was unfortunately involved in an incident with another car. As a result, Advantage said 
it wasnt economical to repair his car. So it settled his claim as a total loss by paying him the 
market value for his car. 
Mr P didnt think Advantage had paid a fair value. He provided examples of adverts for 
similar cars for sale for more.  But Advantage said its valuation was fair. 
Mr P asked us to look at things for him. He said Advantage accepted a valuation he gave for 
his car of £4,700 when he bought the policy. He believes he therefore may have paid too 
much for his insurance. 
Our investigator explained that we dont decide a valuation. But she looked at whether an 
insurer reached its valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. In this case, she thought 
Advantage had been fair. 
Mr P didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is about Mr Ps complaint that the valuation Advantage paid when he made a 
claim was too low. Mr P is free to raise a separate complaint with Advantage if he remains 
unhappy that the valuation he gave for his car affected the premium he paid.
Our investigator explained that we have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. 
Mr Ps policy says the most Advantage will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of 
the car at the time of loss. So it isnt an agreed value policy. 
We find the main motor trade guides are more reliable than adverts when deciding a 
valuation. They provide valuations based on research and likely selling prices for the same 
make, model, age, condition and mileage as a car like Mr Ps for the month of loss. 
Advertised prices vary widely and tend to be higher than the final selling price as a seller 
leaves room to negotiate the price downward. So generally we find them to be less reliable 
than the motor trade guides. We checked the retail transacted valuations under the trade guides to see if Advantage had reached its valuation in a reasonable way.  This is the price 
that Mr P or anyone might pay for a similar car from a garage. 
Advantage found one of the valuations was out of kilter with the others as it was much lower. 
So it disregarded that valuation. We think this is fair and in line with our approach. Of the 
remaining guides, Advantage paid the average which gave a valuation of £2,998. 
As the valuation Advantage paid is within the range of the remaining guides, I think 
Advantage dealt with Mr Ps claim in a fair and reasonable way and in line with the policy.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But this means I dont think 
Advantage needs to increase the total loss settlement it made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman