DRN-3882337
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) starting charging a 
fee for his credit card account without his agreement. 
What happened
Mr L has a British Airways American Express Premium Plus Card. He also holds an Amex 
Companion Card, for which he pays a fee, and as a result his British Airways card had been 
a free account. In June 2021 AESEL says it sent Mr L a notice of variation, explaining the 
account would incur an annual membership fee of £250 going forward. Mr L says he didnt 
receive that letter, so when he noticed the fee had been charged in April 2022 he called 
AESEL to query it.  
Mr L told AESEL, over several calls and letters, he hadnt received any notice of the fee and 
didnt want the account if it was going to cost him. AESEL responded to his complaint in July 
2022 to say its records indicated an email had been sent to Mr L in June 2021. That 
confirmed the introduction of a fee, and the removal of the clause which allowed him to hold 
the card for free if he also had an Amex Companion Card. On that basis, AESEL didnt it 
think it had made an error. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr L referred his complaint to our service. He told us he had 
contacted AESEL many times over several months to try and resolve the issue, but hadnt 
received the call backs he was promised. AESEL had also continued to charge him interest 
on the account fee, and had written to say he was in arrears, despite saying he no longer 
wanted the upgraded version of the card in May 2022. Mr L was worried the dispute over the 
fee had affected his creditworthiness, as AESEL had reduced the limit on the credit card and 
eventually sent a default notice.
An investigator here reviewed everything and thought the complaint should be upheld. In her 
view, AESELs service had been poor and Mr L ought to have been given the option to 
downgrade or close the account when he called. She recommended AESEL provided a pro-
rata refund of the fee back to the date of his first call to query the issue in May 2022, and pay 
him £250 compensation for the trouble caused. 
Mr L replied to say he agreed with most of the investigators findings, but thought the full 
membership fee should be refunded  as he believed thats what should have happened 
when he first rang in May 2022. AESEL maintained it hadnt done anything wrong, and 
asked for an ombudsman to review things. As no agreement could be reached at the 
informal stage, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
I issued my provisional findings saying I planned to uphold the complaint and go further than 
the investigator, in terms of the redress needed to put things right. I accepted that AESEL 
may have issued a notice of variation. But given it had included the information about the fee 
with lots of other changes, had opted Mr L in for paying it (rather than seeking his active 
agreement) based on terms he agreed to 20 years prior, debited the fee many months after 
the notice, and payment for it wasnt due when he first called to query it, I considered AESEL 
ought to have agreed to refund it in full at that point in May 2022. Not doing so, to my mind, 
had caused Mr L lots of unnecessary worry and hassle  which meant I also increased the 
proposed compensation award to £500. I said I intended to direct AESEL to rework the 
account to remove an interest or fees charged as a result of the membership fee, to reinstate 
his original credit limit  and to downgrade Mr Ls account to the free version (backdating as 
necessary the amendments to his points tally).
Mr L accepted my findings. AESEL disputed it was at fault in the matter  and raised the 
following points in response: 
It couldnt be held responsible for the notice going to Mr Ls junk folder, and it had 
sent him other emails which it assumes he received.
AESEL offered the second card for free as Mr L had a Platinum card, but in October 
2019 he had downgraded that card to a Gold card.
Mr L was enrolled into paperless communication, so it sent an email instead of a 
letter.
AESEL maintained it was fair to charge the fee as the terms Mr L agreed to said it 
could make such changes as long as advance warning was given.
Mr L never asked to downgrade his account, and he persisted in wanting the 
Premium Plus account for free. The option to downgrade was always available to 
him.
Mr Ls Premium Plus card was cancelled in February 2023.
I have deemed its process of opting customers in to be unfair, and it has those 
procedures in place for all its members as it has to treat them all fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information provided to me, including the responses from both parties, 
Ive not been persuaded to depart from the outcome I set out in my provisional findings. So 
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint  and Ive explained why below.
Im not suggesting AESEL is responsible for any emails going to Mr Ls junk folder. It has 
evidenced the notice of variation was likely sent, but that doesnt change my view on what 
happened. I still dont know how exactly the notice would have appeared to him  whether, 
for instance, it would have been an attachment, and he needed to scroll to page two to 
discover the charge. The notice contained information about a lot of changes, so even if Mr L 
had seen it I could understand if he had missed that a charge would be applicable. The 
charge was then applied ten months later, without any other prior warning, without his active 
agreement  and based on terms hed agreed to 20 years earlier. 
Im not suggesting that introducing a charge for the account wasnt fair in principle, and Im 
not attempting to interfere with how AESEL generally chooses to run its business. Ive just 
set out those circumstances as context for why I consider AESEL should have acted 
differently when Mr L called to query the charge in May 2022. I should point out, though, that 
treating all customers the same doesnt necessarily equate to treating them all fairly. I 
appreciate AESEL considers it followed its processes, but I dont think doing so in this 
instance has produced a fair result. 
Ive listened to all the calls involved in this case, and I disagree with AESELs interpretation 
of them. I find that Mr L was amenable to downgrading his account, and made it clear he no 
longer stood to benefit from the features of the upgraded version  his circumstances meant 
he wasnt travelling like he used to. The sticking point was AESEL insisting a pro-rata amount for the fee should be charged, and I dont think that was a fair approach. Mr L had 
contacted AESEL before the payment for the statement showing the fee was due, and 
explained he wasnt aware of the charge (for whatever reason). Taking account of all the 
context Ive explained, AESEL ought to have removed the full fee, made any (very minor) 
adjustments to the points as necessary, and downgraded the account. Those were easy 
changes for AESEL to make, and Mr L gave every indication that would be an acceptable 
way forward during the conversations I heard. That didnt happen  and so all the 
subsequent impact caused to Mr L flows from that mistake.
It has led to almost a year of uncertainty for Mr L about the status of his account. He also 
called in and wrote to Amex several times to try and resolve things  with promises to 
contact him not being kept, and a significant amount of his time being wasted. The situation 
was understandably very frustrating for him, but he was also particularly worried by the 
impact this might all have to his credit file (even being served a default notice at one point). It 
appears Mr L incurred late fees and even had his credit limit downgraded as a result of this 
issue  which would have been distressing and embarrassing. Given the level of 
inconvenience and distress caused to Mr L over such an extended period, I dont think £250 
goes far enough to address that impact. So, bearing in mind our published approach to 
these awards, Ive decided £500 compensation is the fair amount in the circumstances.
AESEL raised that Mr L downgraded his other card to a Gold card in 2019. The notice of 
variation said it removed the clause allowing him to have the second card for free if he held a 
Companion Card. Im not sure if AESEL is saying Mr Ls Gold card wasnt a Companion 
card, and so he didnt qualify for the Premium Plus account for free from 2019. So, perhaps 
AESEL is arguing it should have realised it could apply a fee for this account sooner than it 
did. Even if that is what AESEL is saying, then thats its own mistake, and I dont think it 
should have any bearing on the outcome here. 
AESEL has also referenced this card being cancelled in February 2023. Im unsure if that 
means the account has already been downgraded. I dont think the account has been closed 
(and it shouldnt be), as Mr L has mentioned receiving a new card around that time. But Ive 
still included the downgrade in my directions, though, just in case that hasnt already 
happened. Ive also not seen anything to suggest Mr Ls credit limit was reduced for any 
reason other than the issues relating to the fee  so AESEL should reinstate it to the 
previous credit limit.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr L, Im directing AESEL to:
Refund the £250 membership fee.
Rework the account to remove any interest or charges relating to the fee, so as to 
make the account as if it had never been charged. If that generates a positive 
balance, AESEL should add 8% simple interest yearly to that amount  calculated 
from the point the positive balance would have starting accruing, until settlement is 
paid.
Downgrade the account to the free version, and amend the points accordingly (so 
that Mr L didnt get the increased points benefit from April 2022).
Reinstate Mr Ls credit limit to the previous level (in April 2022).
Remove any adverse data recorded about the account both internally, and externally 
with the Credit Reference Agencies, since April 2022.
Pay Mr L £500 compensation for the sustained worry and effort this has caused.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ls complaint about American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL), and direct the credit card provider to put things right as stipulated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman