DRN-3588215
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) dealt 
with fraud on his account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In June 2020, Mr G was contacted by a debt collection agency working on Barclays behalf. 
They were chasing an outstanding credit card balance from an old account of Mr Gs. It 
turned out this balance had been run up by a fraudster, who had intercepted a new card that 
was sent to Mr Gs old address.
Mr G recalls closing this account over the phone back in 2015, so hes unhappy that 
Barclays didnt close it at the time. Hes also unhappy they wrote some letters to his old 
address even after he complained. He explained that because of this, he paid for a mail 
redirection service so that Barclays didnt send anything else the fraudster could intercept.
After several months of delay, Barclays investigated and dealt with the fraud. They offered 
Mr G £150 compensation for the delay. But they couldnt see that hed ever closed the 
account. And they said they were now writing to the right address.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and felt Barclays compensation offer was 
fair. Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr G and Barclays a provisional decision on 16 June 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Barclays havent quite offered enough to put things 
right here  Ill explain why.
First, I will say that I understand Mr G has been the victim of a crime here, and that hes had 
a tough time more generally. So he has my sympathy. I can appreciate that the fraudster will 
have caused him a good deal of distress.
I can see that in his initial complaint, Mr G was clear that the credit card was registered to an 
old, now incorrect address, and that he no longer lived there. It also looks like he discussed 
this with Barclays agents, too. Yet despite this, I can see that Barclays continued writing to 
that old address until late September 2020. I think that was an error on Barclays part. And 
given that it appears a fraudster was intercepting post at that old address, I think it was 
reasonable that Mr G was worried about this and that he paid for a mail redirection service in 
the meantime. Hes sent us evidence of the redirection, which cost £41.99. I think Barclays 
need to cover that cost.
Further, while I am glad to hear that Barclays have now dealt with the fraud, I think they took 
too long to do so. Mr G initially reported this in summer 2020, but it didnt get properly dealt 
with until late December 2020, and he didnt get a substantial response to his complaint until 
January 2021. And that added significant stress onto what was already a stressful situation. 
I also understand that Mr G and his representative then had to make quite a few phone calls. 
I dont think Barclays existing offer quite reflects the trouble and upset the delay caused.
Regarding the issue of closing the account, Ive looked at the notes for this account going 
back to 2014. And I cant see any record of Mr G asking Barclays to close the account. If 
Mr G had spoken to Barclays about this in 2015, then even if the call recording isnt still 
available thered usually be a note or another sign that the call had happened. But there 
does not appear to be anything like that here. I accept that Mr G recalls closing this account, 
and it may well be that he intended to do so. But it does not appear that Barclays were 
asked to close it, so I cant fairly conclude that they made an error there.
As above, I do think Barclays got things wrong in writing to the old address and in how long 
they took to deal with the fraud. When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to 
pay compensation, to acknowledge their mistake and the impact it had. In terms of the 
amount of compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to punish banks or to 
issue large fines. And I have also kept in mind that it was the fraudster, rather than Barclays, 
who committed the fraud and so who is responsible for a significant part of Mr Gs distress 
and inconvenience.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award. Taking everything into 
account, I think £250 in total would be fair to put things right here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 July 2022. Barclays agreed to the proposed compensation. Mr G explained he 
appreciated the decision and found it a relief to be listened to, but he had some further 
points for consideration, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G reiterated that he was certain he closed the account back in 2015. He suggested that 
the reason there was no record of it was because the staff member had forgotten to leave a 
note. I do appreciate the strength of Mr Gs conviction on this point. But if hed contacted 
Barclays at the time, it would normally have at least left an automatic footprint or another 
sign that hed got in touch, even if the staff member forgot to write a specific note. But Ive 
not seen anything like that here. As far as I can see, theres no evidence which substantiates 
that Mr G tried to close this account in 2015. So again, I accept that Mr G recalls doing so, 
and it may well be that he intended to do so. But it does not look like Barclays were asked to 
close this account in 2015, so I cannot fairly conclude that they made an error there.Mr G felt it was unacceptable that Barclays had written to the wrong address. As before, 
I agree they made an error there, which is why Im directing them to refund the redirection 
costs for that period, and to pay compensation on top. Mr G sent in further mail redirection 
costs, but that was to cover late October 2020 onwards, and Barclays updated his address 
and stopped writing to the old address back in September 2020. So from that point onwards, 
Mr Gs redirection costs were no longer reasonably caused by Barclays error  as their error 
had already been fixed. So I find that those further redirection costs from October 2020 
onwards were no longer Barclays responsibility.
Mr G reiterated that this had had a real impact on him, and that he didnt feel Barclays had 
put it right. As above, I agree they made an error in writing to the wrong address until 
September 2020, and in delaying things. The compensation is then there to put things right.
I understand that Mr G does not think £250 is enough. He explained that he had to contact 
lots of organisations, and that he received contact about a debt that wasnt his. I understand 
Mr Gs point of view. But as I explained above, I have not found that Barclays made any 
error in leaving the account open. And it was the fraudster who committed the fraud, not 
Barclays. So its the fraudster who ran up the debt and primarily caused Mr G to receive 
correspondence, and who caused him to have to contact organisations like the police. I also 
cant see that Barclays contact was excessive or unreasonable. And as I said before, were 
not here to punish businesses or issue large fines. So while I see where Mr G is coming 
from, taking into account our guidelines for compensation I still conclude that £250 in total is 
fair to put things right there.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
pay Mr G £41.99 to cover the mail redirection; and- 
pay Mr G £250 compensation in total for the trouble and upset they caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman