DRN-1236668
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with his insurers Admiral, who declined his claim on his home contents 
insurance, for his lost watch.  Mr L would like his insurers to settle the claim
What happened
Mr L bought his watch in 2010 and made sure that he insured it every year and specified it 
on his insurance as a high risk item.  In March 2019, he reported the loss of his watch.  He 
registered the loss with his insurers initially on the basis of theft.  He told them that he had 
recently moved into his new home and noticed that his watch was not in its jewellery box.  
He felt that on balance it must have been one of the workmen who had been in his home, 
who had taken his watch.  When it was pointed out to him that his policy would not cover 
theft by people who had been in his property lawfully, he changed his story to state that he 
must have lost his watch during his move or thrown it away when he moved packaging.  
Admiral were concerned by the change in his account and appointed specialists who 
conducted a 45 minute interview over the phone with Mr L. 
 
The specialists found Mr L to be very cooperative.  They wrote a report in which they 
expressed a number of concerns about Mr Ls account.  They believed that the account 
lacked credibility for the following reasons:  He changed the circumstances of the loss.  He 
initially claimed that workmen had stolen his watch but when it was pointed out to him that 
this was policy exclusion, he changed his account.  Plus, there was no direct evidence 
raised by him that could support a theft claim.  
 
The specialists claimed that the change of account was done on the basis to best fit a claim 
and therefore this could not be a genuine claim. Additionally, Admiral accepted that the lack 
of consistency in Mr Ls account raised concerns.  In addition, is the watch had been lost 
during a house move, this is not covered under the policy. 
 
The specialists found that Mr L had recently separated from his wife, which would have 
brought about financial burdens and provide a reason for a fictitious claim.  
 
The specialists could not eliminate the possibility that Mr L left his watch at his former home.  
They found that he had not asked his wife if it had been left there nor did he take steps to 
search his previous home for his watch. 
 Finally, the specialists found that Mr L had admitted to throwing the presentation box of the 
watch away, which raised concerns because they felt that given that the watch was bespoke 
and of a high value, it would have been sensible for him to have retained the box not only as 
it would have maintained its value but also for a place for it to be kept given that Mr L stated 
that he occasionally wore the watch. 
 
For all these reasons, the specialists advised Admiral to decline the claim and if they were 
not to, to carry out further investigations which would ultimately mean that the claim would 
be declined.  Admiral felt it had enough evidence to decline Mr Ls claim without undertaking 
any further investigations.  .  
 
Mr L brought his complaint here and one of our investigators looked at it.  Our investigator 
accepted that there were a number of inconsistencies that would have raised concerns with 
Admiral and that they were of a sufficient nature to decline Mr Ls claim.  Our investigator did 
not uphold the claim.  Mr L did not agree with our investigator and the complaint was passed 
to me.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.  I will now give you my reasons why.
 
Like our investigator I have to assess what evidence Admiral considered before declining the 
claim.  I have also considered the evidence from Mr L. 
 
Having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, it is for Mr L to provide evidence of 
his loss before the insurers  Admiral  can make a decision, in this case a decision to 
decline.  Initially Mr L claimed that there was a high probability that his watch had been 
stolen by workmen.  But from the papers, I can see no evidence to support this and Mr L 
confirmed that there was no evidence he could rely upon to support this.  Also when Admiral 
pointed out to him that he could not claim under this reason, Mr L changed his account on 
the basis that he had lost the watch during his house move or when he threw out packaging 
following the move.  I have had sight of the home contents policy and found there is a term 
in the policy that excludes his watch from being covered at all during house moves:
 
Household removal and temporary storage.  We will pay for accidental loss or damage to 
contents whilst they are being moved by a professional removal company to your new 
home.  What is not covered is: money, high risk items. 
Mr L would have been given the terms and conditions of the policy when he took out the 
insurance.  He accepts that he insured his watch as a high value item and unfortunately, 
having done this, excluded the watch from cover.  I can see why Admiral would have 
declined his claim on this basis as well.  Notwithstanding the fact that he changed his 
account as to the circumstance of the loss of the watch, this would have raised concerns 
with Admiral about the legitimacy of his claim.  
 
 
I accept the evidence shows that Mr L made no effort to mitigate the loss by searching for 
his watch at his previous home.  So the possibility that the watch could have been lost or left 
at this previous address can not be ruled out.  Given Mr L obligations under his policy as 
previously mentioned, it would be necessary for Mr L to show that he had not left his watch 
behind.  This is another reason why Admiral would have had concerns about this claim.  
 
Finally, Mr L stated that he had thrown away the presentation box of the watch.  Given that 
the watch was bespoke and that Mr L admitted that he only wore it occasionally, I can see 
why Admiral would have thought that it would be reasonable for him to have retained the 
box.  Mr L provided no cogent reason why he threw the box away and I can see why Admiral 
raised concerns about this in supporting them declining his claim.  So overall, although I can 
see that Mr L feels strongly about this, I am afraid that there are no reasonable grounds on 
which I can ask Admiral to do any more here as I find that there were a number of 
inconsistencies that would have raised issues with Admiral to decline Mr Ls claim.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman