DRN-3320085
The complaint
Mr D (through a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to him 
irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks before lending to him.
 
What happened
In total Mr D was given 11 home collected loans between November 2016 and October 
2019. Ive included some of the information this Service has received from STF about the 
lending in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly repayment
1 £100.00 14/11/2016 16/01/2017 15 £10
2 £150.00 16/01/2017 20/03/2017 16 £15
3 £200.00 20/03/2017 19/07/2017 16 £20
4 £100.00 14/09/2017 20/12/2017 16 £10
5 £150.00 20/12/2017 05/04/2018 16 £15
6 £200.00 05/04/2018 23/08/2018 16 £20
7 £200.00 23/08/2018 08/11/2018 16 £20
8 £300.00 08/11/2018 09/04/2019 16 £30
9 £300.00 09/04/2019 10/07/2019 16 £30
10 £300.00 10/07/2019 23/10/2019 16 £30
11 £300.00 23/10/2019 outstanding 16 £30
Following Mr Ds letter of complaint, STF issued its final response letter on 27 May 2021. It 
explained Mr D had been advanced 11 loans, and it wasnt upholding his complaint because 
it carried out proportionate checks, before each loan was advanced. STF also explained that 
an outstanding balance remained due for loan 11 of £80. 
Unhappy, with this response, Mr Ds representative, referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The case was then looked at by one of our adjudicators. She concluded, that STFs decision 
to advance loans 1 - 4 was reasonable. Although, she also didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint 
about loan 5, she did conclude that STF checks likely didnt go far enough for this loan.
However, the adjudicator did uphold Mr Ds complaint about loans 6  11 because in her 
view the overall pattern of lending was now harmful for Mr D and so these loans ought to not 
have been provided to him. 
Mr Ds representative acknowledged receipt of the assessment but didnt provide any further 
comments.  
STF did agree with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loans 6  9 and offered to pay 
compensation to Mr D. But it didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment in relation to 
loans 10 and 11. In response it said:
STF adhered to all guidelines, regulations and its own policies. 
It didnt have the technology at the time to accept and keep copies of bank 
statements or wage slips. 
The offer for loans 6  9 including paying Mr D a refund of £605.64, which included 
the live balance on loan 11.
However, STF said it didnt agree with the assessment about loans 10 and 11 
because in 2019 the industry regulator carried out a review (166 phase 2). Following 
that review, recommendations were made and implemented. As a result, the 
regulator has said all the loans were 100% compliant. 
The offer for loans 6 - 9 was put to Mr Ds representative, who acknowledged receipt of it. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
There doesnt appear to be any ongoing disagreement about the outcome the adjudicator 
reached for loans 1  5. So, I no longer think these loans are in dispute, so I wont be making 
a finding on them. But what I would add, is that I dont disagree with what the adjudicators 
findings about these loans.  
I also think that loans 6  9 are no longer in dispute because STF has agreed with the 
adjudicators assessment and has offered compensation to Mr D. Ive included these loans 
in the putting things right section at the end of this decision. 
Instead, this decision will focus on what happened when loans 10 and 11 were advanced. 
But Ive kept in mind loans 1- 9 as they do form part of Mr Ds lending history with STF. 
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could
repay his loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include: 
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
When these loans were approved, STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 10 and 11 were 
proportionate and Ill explain why below. STF has been able to provide the Financial Service 
with a copy of Mr Ds application forms. These application forms include details about the 
income and expenditure that Mr D declared.
I would say, that based on the details in the application form and the later income and 
expenditure assessments, that STF couldve reasonably concluded that Mr D would be in a 
position to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
But Id be inclined to think, like the adjudicator that from loan 5, STFs checks really needed 
to go further and wouldve still been the case by the time loans 10 and 11 were approved. I 
say this because Mr D was coming back yet again for further lending on the same day the 
previous loan had been repaid and it was one of his largest loans to date. 
At this point in the lending relationship, I think STF ought to have been verifying Mr Ds 
income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of his actual 
financial position. I dont think it did this level of checks for all of Mr Ds loans. 
STF says for loans after August 2018 (so loans 10 and 11) it had an online process for 
applying for loans and had the ability to record and keep information and evidence that it 
collected at the time. However, STF hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman, with any of 
the additional information it may have collected when these loans were approved. So, I dont 
know, what if any, additional information it may have taken or reviewed when these final two 
loans were advanced. 
But in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mr D, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Mr D. Having looked at the overall pattern of STFs 
lending history with Mr D, I agree with our adjudicator that STF should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 10. I 
say this because;At this point STF ought to have realised Mr D was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. This was now the tenth loan in 31 months and Mr D had been indebted 
to STF for almost the entire time. Loan 10 was also one of Mr Ds largest loan to 
date. 
So STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr D was having to borrow 
further to cover an ongoing need and his indebtedness was increasingly 
unsustainably. It also seems that Mr Ds loan history up until this point clearly 
indicated that his underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving, given his 
lending pattern had now plateaued at taking £300 loans. 
Mr D had developed a pattern of taking new loans around the same time previous 
ones were repaid, for example, loan 10 was taken on the same day that loan nine 
had been repaid. This pattern continued within the lending relationship. So, STF 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr D, was having to borrow further 
to effectively cover a longer-term financial need. To me, this is also indicative of his 
indebtedness not being sustainable.
Mr D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed STF. Loan 11 was taken 
out just under three years after loan 1 and it was the joint largest loan to date.  Mr D 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STF over an 
extended period of time.
In response to the adjudicators assessment, STF has raised the issue of the industry 
regulator 166 review. It seems to be saying that following a review, STF implemented the 
recommendations of it. Following the implementation, the regulator reviewed these and the 
loans were signed off. 
It isnt clear whether STF is saying that one or more of Mr Ds loans was part of the review 
that the regulator (and skilled person) carried out. Or whether more generally STF is saying 
that as these loans were approved after the review and therefore they must be compliant 
with the regulators at the time.  A copy of the report and or the timeline (STF just says 2019) 
as to when these new lending policies were implemented havent been provided.  
Firstly, I dont think the industry regulator would by signing off these loans or the loans that 
were checked as part of the review (if indeed the timeline confirms this) would conclude that 
this would give STF immunity from having complaints upheld against them for irresponsible 
lending. 
After all Ive not seen anything to say that the regulator looked at these loans or anything to 
suggest the regulator has said all of STFs loans are compliant all of the time. There is 
always a risk that something may or may not, go wrong with the credit application process.  
But my interpreted from what STF has said, that as loans 10 and 11 were approved following 
the review then these must be satisfactory, and so it hasnt made an error by approving 
them. But in the cover letter provided with STFs business file suggests the reviewed signed 
off STFs approach in October 2021, significantly later than when these loans were 
approved.
Even if I accept these loans were checked, I dont think proportionate checks had been 
carried out on them given the overall lending relationship. The regulations said the payments 
had to be sustainable, and so STF had to react to the information that it had about the 
lending relations up to this point. And, for the reasons that Ive outlined above, in my view, it 
is clear that these loans were unsustainable for Mr D. 
So, I think that Mr D lost out when STF provided loans 6 - 11 because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and the time in debt was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 - 11 and Ill go on to set out
what STF should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D from loan 6 as I think it ought to.
 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there and 
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between 
him and STF which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, he may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Mr D loans 6  11.
If STF has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If STF isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
A. STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything you have already refunded. 
B. STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. STF should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr D having 
made overpayments then STF should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. STF should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr D. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then STF should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr D. 
E. The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 6 - 11 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so STF should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ds credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman