DRN-4260733
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Starling Bank Limited (Starling) dealt with a dispute he raised 
with it about transactions made on his debit card.
What happened
Mr C contacted Starling about some transactions debited to his account by a car hire 
business (the supplier). He told Starling he didnt recognise these and didnt agree to them. 
He said he had previously frozen his card so they should not have gone through and left him 
with an overdrawn account. 
Starling pointed out that Mr C had previously used the supplier and before it considered 
raising a chargeback asked him to contact it to get some more information about the nature 
of the transactions in dispute.
Mr C didnt agree to go back to the supplier and raised a complaint with Starling which it 
didnt uphold.
The complaint came to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
thought Starling had not acted unfairly in the way it handled the dispute.
Mr C has asked for the matter to be looked at again so it has been passed to me as 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be commenting on everything here  only the matters I consider to be central to the 
complaint. This isnt intended to be a discourtesy to either party  but reflects my role in 
resolving disputes informally.
Chargeback is a way that Starling can dispute debit card transactions on behalf of Mr C. 
However, it isnt guaranteed to succeed and is limited by the particular card scheme rules 
(Mastercard in this instance).
It is often good practice to attempt a chargeback. However, in some cases it wont be, for 
example where there isnt a reasonable prospect of success.
I have considered the relevant Mastercard chargeback rules here. And from what Mr C told 
Starling, it appears the most appropriate chargeback reason would be one relating to a lack 
of cardholder authorisation for a transaction. However, in order to raise such a dispute under 
the chargeback rules there must be supporting information which provides sufficient detail to 
enable all parties to understand the nature of the dispute. In this case I dont think that was 
the case. And I dont think in the particular circumstances it was unreasonable for Starling to 
seek clarification from Mr C before it proceeded any further.
I say this primarily because:
Mr C had a pre-existing relationship with the supplier and had paid for what appeared 
to be car rental prior to and proximate in time to the follow up transactions he was 
now disputing (Mr C confirmed he had used the supplier before);
the nature of the suppliers business agreement with Mr C (likely for car hire) could 
plausibly involve pre-authorised follow up charges such as fines or damage charges;
it would not have been onerous or unfair to expect Mr C to have sought clarification 
from the supplier as to whether these latest charges were related to an agreement he 
had with it  this might have even resolved the matter without the need for further 
involvement from Starling; and
Starling has explained that certain pre-authorised arrangements can mean a 
payment will go through - even if a card is frozen.
Mr C refused to go back to the supplier at all here which would have furnished Starling with 
further clarification. So I think Starling not raising a chargeback was not unreasonable here - 
I dont think any chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success based on the facts as 
they stood.
For similar reasons to those already covered  I dont think Starling was unreasonable in not 
immediately treating the transaction as unauthorised and refunding Mr C for it either. The 
transactions in dispute appeared to be connected to a pre-existing relationship  so Starling 
was not acting unfairly in asking the questions it did and waiting for more information before 
it did anything else from a potential fraud perspective here. 
I am sorry to hear Mr C is unhappy with Starling and that he became overdrawn in his 
account. However, overall I dont think Starling handled this matter poorly. It appeared to be 
willing to help him (and also offered to cancel his card) but he did not appear to want to 
engage with its reasonable requests for further information. So I dont think Starling needs to 
do anything more here or pay Mr C compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman