DRN-3663089
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they were mis-sold a series of timeshare products and the loans 
used to finance them. Three loans were provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited, which Ill refer 
to as Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs D have been represented by a claims business, which Ill refer to as F. Where I 
refer to Mr and Mrs Ds submissions and arguments, I include those made on their behalf. 
What happened
According to Shawbrook, Mr and Mrs Ds involvement with Diamond Resorts began when, in 
September 1999, they bought a timeshare week in Florida. The timeshare business was 
later taken over by Diamond Resorts International. 
In July 2010 Mr and Mrs D traded their timeshare week for a different one at the same 
resort. That week was then converted into points in the Diamond Resorts US Collection. 
In July 2013 Mr and Mrs D bought further points in the US Collection at the same resort. 
In October 2014 they bought membership and 7,500 points in the Diamond Resorts 
European Collection Limited for £6,300. This purchase was financed with a loan from 
Shawbrook. 
In June 2015 Mr and Mrs D bought a further 9,500 points in the US Collection.
In August 2015 they bought a further 10,500 points in the European Collection at a price of 
£8,820, financed with a consolidation loan from Shawbrook. 
In August 2016 they bought a further 10,000 points in the European Collection for £8,400. 
This was also funded by a loan from Shawbrook. 
Finally, in September 2017, Mr and Mrs D agreed to buy a further 10,000 points in the 
European Collection, but the agreement was cancelled and no payment was made. 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint concerns the agreements entered into in October 2014 and 
August 2015. In November 2018 F wrote on their behalf to Diamond Resorts International 
about both agreements; at the same time, it wrote to Shawbrook in very similar terms. In 
summary, it said:
The terms of the sale agreements were unfair in themselves.
Diamond Resorts had not disclosed the commission it was to receive from Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs D had been told there would be improved availability of accommodation, but 
they had had to compromise when making bookings.
They had been told that resorts were for the exclusive use of members, which was not 
the case.
Accommodation had not been of the standard they had been led to believe it would be. 
They had not been given the option of using a different lender.
They had not been given enough time to review the documents.
The presentations had been high-pressured.
Diamond Resorts and Shawbrook had not properly assessed whether the loans were 
affordable.
 Shawbrook contacted Diamond Resorts for its comments. Diamond Resorts said, in 
summary:
It told Mr and Mrs D that it was entitled to a commission. It was under no duty to tell 
them how much it was, but it would have told them if they had asked. 
It does not use high-pressure sales tactics, but acknowledges that customers are 
expected to attend update meetings in some circumstances.
Mr and Mrs D had been members since 1999, so would have known what an update 
meeting would entail. They would have known too that resorts were not exclusive to 
members and that accommodation was subject to availability.
They would have known too that buying more points allows members to buy longer and 
more holidays; it does not affect availability of that accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs D had never made any resort aware of any concern they had about the 
quality of accommodation  except on one occasion when they had returned to the 
same resort but asked for a different apartment because of concerns about noise on 
their previous visit.  
Diamond Resorts records indicated that the only occasions on which there had been 
any issue with availability had been when Mr and Mrs D had tried to book specific 
accommodation at short notice  sometimes in the week they intended to travel. 
Mr and Mrs C had 14 days in which to cancel the agreements if they were not happy 
with them.   
Shawbrook declined the claim and F referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld.
F did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. In doing so, it said:
The product was worthless, since the same accommodation can be booked online and 
there is no secondary market for timeshare points.
The membership was open-ended, which is unfair in itself.
Mr and Mrs D had been pressured into signing on the same day. 
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision, indicating that I was unlikely to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:As a general point, I note that Mr and Mrs D have said that their complaint concerns the 
transactions in October 2014 and August 2015. The documents they have submitted do not 
however include the August 2015 sale agreement or loan agreement. They do include those 
from August 2016. In response to this provisional decision, therefore, they may wish to 
clarify that and to identify which elements of their complaint relate to which of the three sale 
agreements that they signed.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
The October 2014 purchase agreement was made between Mr and Mrs D as buyer and 
Diamond Resorts (Europe) Ltd (DRL) as seller. It was an agreement for the sale and 
purchase of 7,500 Points Rights. DRL is also named as the supplier in Shawbrooks 
documentation. 
The August 2016 agreement was made between the same parties and was for the sale and 
purchase of 10,000 Points Rights. It is in similar form to the 2014 agreement. Again, DRL is 
named as the supplier in the loan documents. 
As I have said, I have not been provided with copies of the documents from August 2015. 
Since the 2014 and 2016 documents are very similar (apart from the date, number of Points 
Rights and price), I think it likely that they were not materially different.   
I am satisfied therefore that all three loans were arranged by DRL under existing 
arrangements with Shawbrook. Indeed, that does not appear to be in dispute. I must 
therefore consider what Mr and Mrs D have said about the actions of DRL.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr D has included in his evidence a statement which describes his recollection of what he 
was told when he and Mrs D dealt with Diamond Resorts companies when initially buying 
the timeshare and when buying points in the European Collection. In respect of the 
purchases in October 2014, August 2015 and August 2016, he has said:
He and Mrs D were invited to an information meeting which turned out to be a high-
pressure sales pitch.
They were told there would be excellent availability of accommodation, but they 
struggled to book holidays and always had to compromise. 
They were told the standard of accommodation would be high, but it was not, and they 
had to move rooms. 
They were not offered a choice of lenders and could not speak to Shawbrook directly.They were told that resorts were exclusive to members, but that was not the case.
Mr Ds statement made some of the same observations about the initial timeshare purchase, 
in particular in relation to the sales tactics. 
As DRL has pointed out, Mr C and Mrs D had been timeshare owners since 1999  that is, 
for around 15 years before they first bought European Points Rights in 2014. They converted 
a fixed timeshare week into a floating week and then into timeshare points in that time, and 
had bought more points in the US Collection. They must have known therefore that the 
update meeting would be likely to include a sales presentation. They would have been 
familiar too with the booking process and would have known that resorts were not for the 
exclusive use of members. Nevertheless, they went ahead with the purchases. 
For a claim in misrepresentation to succeed, a claimant must generally show not only that 
incorrect statements were made, but also that those statements induced him into the 
contract. Were Mr and Mrs D to bring a claim against DRL, therefore, they would need to 
show that, but for those statements, they would not have bought the Points Rights that they 
did. Given what they already knew by 2014 about the operation of Diamond Resorts (albeit 
within the US Collection), I think it likely they would have gone ahead in any event. They 
bought the additional Points Rights on the basis of his own experience of the club over many 
years. 
In addition, there is very little detail about, for example, what Mr and Mrs D say was poor 
quality accommodation. Nor have they provided any information about their unsuccessful 
attempts to make bookings. 
Contractual documents         
I note that Mr and Mrs D say that the Points Rights were poor value for money, because they 
could have secured the same accommodation more cheaply. I make no comment on that, 
save to say that poor value is not, of itself, a ground for a claim.
The documents I have been provided from 2014 and 2016   include a 3-page purchase 
agreement, a Key Information document and a Customer Compliance Statement. As I have 
said, its likely the 2015 documents were not materially different.  
By clause 4 of the Terms and Conditions Mr and Mrs D acknowledged receipt of the Key 
Information Document, Inventory Schedule, Withdrawal Form, Annual Global Reservations 
Directory, Resort Disclosure Booklet, the Governing Documents Booklet and the Rules and 
Regulations of the Club. After 2014 they were already members, so its likely they were 
familiar with these when they decided to buy more Points Rights in 2015 and 2016. 
DRLs Terms and Conditions also included, at clause 5, a statement that customers should 
not buy points as an investment. 
Clause 6 was an entire agreement clause, telling buyers that if they were relying on verbal 
promises, they should be put in writing.
Clause 7 said that, if any part of the contract was invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the rest of 
the contract would remain valid and enforceable. 
Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document said that the club would be dissolved on 
31 December 2054. Part 3, section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. 
It explained that membership could be transferred in some circumstances. In exceptional 
circumstances it might be possible to relinquish membership. They included either member becoming 75 years old. In the circumstances, the claim that the contract was open-ended is 
clearly unsustainable. 
The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan. Mr 
and Mrs D ticked each one and signed the document. The statements included: 
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (my 
emphasis) (4);
a statement that they understood that there was no resale or buyback programme for 
Points Rights (12);
confirmation that they were unable to meet the financial commitments under any finance 
agreement (17);
a statement that they understood that DRL worked with credit providers and that it was 
entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered (18);
confirmation that they had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for him, and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation they had read the purchase agreement, key information and any finance 
document and were happy to proceed (21);
confirmation that they understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which they had relied 
(22).
The fact that Mr and Mrs D signed these statements does not of course mean that they were 
true  even though they did so on three separate occasions. But if they were not true, I 
would have expected Mr and Mrs D, in bringing this complaint, to explain why they signed 
the documents and why, having done so, they did not exercise their right of withdrawal. 
In considering any claim for misrepresentation against DRL, Mr and Mrs Ds statements 
about what they were told at the presentation need to be considered alongside what they 
already knew about club membership and what was in the documentation they signed and 
were provided with. 
It is relevant too that the purchase contracts were clear that Mr and Mrs D would not be able 
to rely on any oral representations and that they confirmed they had been given plenty of 
time to consider the purchases. Further, even if Mr and Mrs D felt they had been rushed into 
the agreements, they had 14 days in which to review them and withdraw if they werent 
happy  as they did in 2017. 
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a misrepresentation claim against DRL would 
succeed in this case. It follows that Shawbrooks decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim was reasonable.  
 Affordability
Mr and Mrs D say that a proper assessment was not made to ensure they could afford the 
loan. I note that the loan documents include information about Mr and Mrs Ds incomes and 
housing costs, as well as a compliance statement relating specifically to the loans, so there 
was some assessment made. 
Mr and Mrs D have not suggested however that they have had any difficulty in making 
repayments. The Customer Compliance Statement which they signed  indicates that DRL did discuss the loan with him, although it was for Shawbrook to assess whether it was 
suitable and affordable. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs D have been able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, 
mean that the loans were in fact affordable, still less that Shawbrook properly assessed 
them. It is however an indication that they were and that more detailed assessments are 
unlikely to have made any real difference overall.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In deciding whether to make orders under these provisions, a court can consider connected 
agreements  which in this case would include the contracts with DRL. Given what I have 
said about those contracts, however, I think it most unlikely that a court would make any 
such order in this case. 
Conclusion 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs D have a claim against DRL or, 
therefore, whether they have a claim under section 75. Nor do I have any power to make 
orders under section 140A and section 140B. They are however matters which I must take 
into account in deciding what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
have done that by concluded that Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Ds claims was fair 
and reasonable. 
Neither Shawbrook nor Mr and Mrs D have provided any further evidence or arguments in 
response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is no further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion from that which I set out in my provisional decision. 
For completeness, however, I should add that the relevance of Mr and Mrs Ds claims 
against DRL is that the effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer 
who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject 
to certain conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Those conditions were satisfied in this case, so I considered what Mr and Mrs D had said 
about DRLs actions. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman