DRN-1544393
The complaint
Miss U has complained about Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd. She isnt happy with the way it 
dealt with a claim under her motor breakdown insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss Us car broke down and had smoke coming from under the bonnet and so she called 
Bastions agent for assistance. It turned down the claim. It said Miss Us car wasnt 
completely immobile, and its policy didnt provide cover in these circumstances. Bastion also 
went on to say that Miss U mustnt have maintained her car properly which contributed to the 
breakdown. However, it eventually sent a breakdown assistant as a gesture of goodwill. 
As Miss U wasnt happy about how she had been treated and the stress she had been 
caused she complained to Bastion, who didnt respond, and then complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss U and upheld her complaint. He thought that 
Bastions agent hadnt dealt with the claim fairly and had caused unnecessary stress for 
Miss U. And so he thought it should pay her £50 compensation.
Miss U didnt think this level of compensation was sufficient. And Bastions agent offered £25 
for any inconvenience caused. But reiterated that its terms were clear and said that as 
Miss Us car was mobile, because it could physically move, it wasnt covered under the 
policy. Bastion also said the car needed to suffer a mechanical breakdown to be covered by 
the policy.
As both sides didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over the finer detail of the complaint as the only remaining issue to 
consider is the level of compensation. But I will clarify our general approach to claims like 
this which Bastion, and its agent is already aware of. 
I know Bastions agent strongly believes that only the contract term can be considered when 
looking at these kinds of complaints. But this service has always looked at complaints on an 
individual case by case basis and in a fair and reasonable way. If it is felt something isnt fair, 
then we will look to consider the reasonableness of the actions taken and decisions made.
In this instance Miss U called to say her car had broken down and wasnt driveable. 
Bastions agent says the policy defines breakdown as an electrical or mechanical failure 
which immediately renders the vehicle immobile.
So while technically using the most favourable interpretation for Bastion, and one which 
clearly suited them, Miss Us car may not have been completely immobile. But I dont think 
Bastion applied the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. I say this because while 
Miss Us car may have been moveable, I dont think that means it was what most people 
would describe as mobile.
Plus, it clearly wasnt safe or sensible to drive the car as it had smoke coming from under the 
bonnet and to do so would have caused further damage and potential danger to Miss U and 
other road users. So Im pleased that Bastion sent a breakdown recovery agent as Im 
satisfied the car had clearly suffered a mechanical failure and wasnt in a condition to be 
driven. And the fact that Bastion sent a recovery agent limited the stress and inconvenience 
Miss U faced. 
So, when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im satisfied the 
car was what most people would consider immobile when contacting a roadside assistance 
provider. The sort of problem Miss U experienced is exactly the sort of problem people buy a 
roadside assistance policy to protect them against. And I find it very surprising indeed that 
Bastion thinks otherwise. 
So, I agree that Miss U has been subjected to unnecessary stress and inconvenience at an 
already stressful time. She had taken this cover to give her reassurance if her car broke 
down. And it mustve been stressful and a little patronising to be subjected to questions 
about the maintenance of her car and told that her breakdown wasnt covered, especially 
when she was stuck at the side of the road in an already stressful position.  
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Bastion to pay Miss U £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused. As it eventually sent a breakdown assistant I dont think the level of compensation 
should be increased. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons explained above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion 
Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Miss U £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman