DRN-2547457
The complaint
Mr C complains Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited should not have accepted him as 
a guarantor for a loan taken out by a third party (the borrower).   
What happened
Mr C was accepted as a guarantor for loan taken out by the borrower in August 2015. The 
loan was for a capital amount of £8,200 with an anticipated completion date of December 
2026. The monthly payments were to be a maximum of £114.31 per month. The borrower 
had taken the loan to pay for their further education. 
Mr C says the borrower should not have been approved for the loan as they are a vulnerable 
person. He also says the borrower was experiencing financial difficulties at the time of the 
application; and any further lending wouldnt have been affordable to them. Mr C says Future 
Finance did not complete reasonable checks; and had it done so it wouldve seen the loan 
was unaffordable to the borrower; and that they were an unsuitable candidate to be lent too. 
Mr C also complains Future Finance did not assess his vulnerability; and that it failed in its 
obligations when considering him as a guarantor. 
Future Finance disagreed with Mr Cs complaint. It says it completed reasonable checks on 
both the borrower and Mr C. It says no disclosure was made to it regarding the borrowers 
health; and the checks it completed showed the loan was affordable to them both. 
Our investigator recommended this complaint be upheld. Whilst they considered the 
circumstances of the borrower, and whether Mr C gave informed consent; they felt further 
checks ought to have been completed on Mr C. They felt had Future Finance completed 
further reasonable checks then it wouldve seen the loan was likely unaffordable to Mr C 
should he be required to make payments. And as such should not have lent.
Future Finance responded to our investigators assessment saying (amongst other things):
Its assessment of Mr C was proportionate; 
It relied on the information it was provided via the credit report search; and 
confirmation of Mr Cs salary;
It had contacted Mr Cs employer to confirm his salary and employment status.
Mr C agreed with the assessment, but as no agreement could be reached by Future Finance 
the matter has been passed to me to issue a final decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Ive seen what Future Finance has said about its model and the profile of its borrowers. 
However, while Ive thought about this, for reasons that will become clear further on in this 
decision, I dont think it matters too much here.
In relation to Mr Cs role as guarantor, I accept that there arent a specific set of checks for a 
lender to carry out before approving a guarantor. But I consider it fair and reasonable that 
similar checks to those carried out on the borrower, in terms of assessing the affordability of 
the payments, should have been completed on Mr C. Again; these checks needed to be 
reasonable when considering the amount of credit being provided including the total amount 
of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the term.
Ive not considered whether Future Finance shouldve completed further checks on the 
borrower or if Mr C gave informed consent to act as guarantor. This is because Im satisfied 
based on the information we have on file, that Future Finance did not complete reasonable 
checks on Mr C before agreeing to accept him as a guarantor for this loan. Im satisfied that 
reasonable checks wouldve shown the loan repayments wouldve been unaffordable to Mr 
C if and when they became due. So, any findings I were to make on the borrowers 
circumstances or Mr Cs consent would not materially impact the outcome of this complaint.
Future Finance says its decision to accept Mr C as a guarantor for this loan was reasonable. 
It says it searched Mr Cs credit file; and took details of his salary. It also says it contacted 
Mr Cs employer to gain further information into his employment status. It says its checks 
were reasonable as they took into consideration Mr Cs existing debts and his ability to make 
repayments should they became due. It also explained in its response to our service that as 
this loan was over a long term (up to 120 months); that it would be unreasonable to make a 
decision based off of short term information on Mr C. 
The credit report search showed Mr C had total existing credit of £13,661. There were three 
open accounts including a personal loan and a credit card. The credit card limit was £1,250 
and had a balance of £1,169. They show Mr C as maintaining these well. With only missed 
payments occurring some time before the application was made. 
Mr Cs application stated that he had an annual income of approximately £25,000; and 
Future Finance were provided with one months payslip which showed Mr C earnt around 
£1,800. 
Whilst Im satisfied Future Finance did complete reasonable checks when looking into Mr Cs 
income; I think it needed to find out more about his expenditure. From the checks; and what 
Future Finance has provided; I cant see it asked Mr C for any other evidence or details of 
his regular expenses. Considering this loan was for a large amount over a potentially long 
term, I think more reasonable checks wouldve investigated Mr Cs outgoings further. This is 
strengthened by the fact Mr C was utilising his existing credit card to close to its limit; and 
had taken a personal loan as well, which were indications that he might have been using up 
a substantial amount of his monthly income already. So, in the circumstances, I think it 
would have been fair and reasonable to check this was the case. 
Mr C has provided copies of his bank statements from the period leading up to the 
application. And in the absence of other evidence on what further reasonable checks 
wouldve shown; Ive used this information to consider if further reasonable checks wouldve 
shown if this loan was likely unaffordable to Mr C, in the event he had to make repayments.
These statements show that Mr C was managing his account to a likely negative margin each month. The statements show that Mr Cs income up until the loan application had 
fluctuated. Mr C had recently moved jobs before the application, but the statements show 
that in his current employment his income still fluctuated. Mr Cs expenditure appears to 
exceed his income on a regular basis; resulting in him entering his unarranged overdraft 
frequently throughout the period leading up to the loan application.
The known expenses are shown on his statements such as payments to his personal loan 
and credit card. However, there are other payments being made to other accounts on a 
regular basis covering significant amounts of money. These payments are to the same 
account and ought reasonably to have prompted Future Finance to enquire about them. Mr 
C has explained to our service they were transfers to his family to repay money he had 
borrowed from them. Mr C has explained he had borrowed around £3,500 for family 
members in order to cover his outgoings and other debts. 
From looking at these statements Im satisfied that Mr C income was not sufficient to meet 
his necessary outgoings. And as such further outgoings such as the repayments for this loan 
should it become due, would not have been sustainable to Mr C. And on this basis, had 
Future Finance completed further reasonable checks, it ought to have come to the same 
conclusion. And as such Im not persuaded Future Finance acted fairly or reasonably when 
approving Mr C as the guarantor for this loan.
Future Finance has argued it doesnt think its is reasonable for us to consider a relatively 
short time frame when deciding if it made a fair decision to accept Mr C as a guarantor. It 
says the term was long; and as such the guarantors circumstances mayve changed. Whilst 
I accept the term of the loan is long and Mr Cs circumstances may have changed, I dont 
think it is fair and reasonable to enter into an unaffordable arrangement in the hope that the 
other parties circumstances might change for the better. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied Future Finances checks werent reasonable in this instance; and it 
shouldve completed further checks to ensure it was acting fairly and reasonably when 
accepting Mr C as a guarantor. The circumstances of this complaint persuade me the 
repayments wouldve been unaffordable to Mr C if and when they became due. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr C; I require Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited to:
To release Mr C from any obligations he has under the guaranty and indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
To refund any repayments Mr C has made towards the loan, with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
To remove any information recorded on Mr C credit file in relation to tis loan.
 If Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Future Finance Loan Corporation 
Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman