DRN-3319842
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold an insurance policy by James Hallam Limited 
trading as Ryans (Ryans) as it didnt include legal expenses cover she required.
What happened
Mrs M occasionally lets out a room in her property. She wanted to insure the property and to 
have the necessary cover for this occasional letting. Ryans had experience arranging 
insurance for bed and breakfast properties.
Ryans recommended a policy to Mrs M and she took this out. After renewing the policy on 
several occasions, she made a complaint as she didnt consider that the legal expenses 
insurance cover which was included in her policy offered the proper protection she should 
have been provided with. She thought that Ryans had misrepresented when it advised her 
and so it should refund all the premiums shed paid.
Ryans rejected Mrs Ms complaint, so she referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt 
consider that the policy had been mis-sold. Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Mrs M took out the policy on an advised basis, rather than a 
non-advised basis. As this is the case, I need to explore whether Ryans recommended a 
policy which was suitable for Mrs Ms needs and whether the material it provided her prior to 
the sale was fair, clear and not misleading.
The suitability of the policy
Mrs M has said that she approached Ryans as she was aware they provided cover for bed 
and breakfast properties, so I think its fair to say shed done some research into the cover 
available and what Ryans offered. This is supported by her referencing in telephone 
conversations with Ryans that there are elements of the cover that she isnt sure whether 
she needs.
Within these discussions, Mrs M didnt make reference to wanting any additional cover 
beyond the standard cover commonly arranged by Ryans. That in itself isnt enough for me 
to say that the policy was suitable for her needs. I still need to be satisfied that the 
recommendation it made was suitable based on what shed said she wanted, and its 
knowledge of the type of cover it was arranging.
Mrs M has said that the policy was unsuitable as it provided insufficient cover. As an 
example she says that if a guest caused damage to the property, the policy wouldnt provide 
cover for taking action against the guest. I cant comment on hypothetical situations, and 
note that the policy did include some legal expenses insurance cover and also provided 
cover for the building and contents. 
Im satisfied that Mrs M didnt mention wanting additional cover for that situation when she 
took out the policy, or give any other examples of things she was seeking cover which went 
beyond the usual cover arranged by Ryans. On that basis, I think it was fair for Ryans to 
make the recommendation it did, which was for a property insurance policy with an 
extension of cover for bed and breakfast activities and common liabilities arising from such 
activities. The main benefits of that extension were to provide cover for public liability and 
loss of income which wouldnt be available on a standard property insurance policy.
On balance, however, I think that the policy recommended and arranged by Ryans was 
suitable for Mrs Ms needs. It discussed what cover she was seeking, asked questions of her 
in order to inform its recommendation and arranged a policy for her in light of the answers 
she gave.
The content of material provided to Mrs M
Im satisfied that the documents provided to Mrs M did detail in clear and fair terms what 
cover was being arranged.
The documents set out the cover provided to Mrs M, the extent of that cover and the terms 
and conditions which apply to the policy and any claims made. Im satisfied that these set 
out the limits of the cover arranged by Ryans and werent misleading so as to give Mrs M a 
reasonable expectation that additional cover was in place.
I note in particular that the sections of the documents which detail the extent of the legal 
expenses insurance cover are separate and distinct from the specific bed and breakfast 
elements of the policy.
I have considered whether the documents which were provided to Mrs M were misleading in 
that they indicated that legal expenses insurance was included automatically, and the 
documents referenced bed and breakfast in the titles. Ive considered whether this meant 
that Mrs M had a legitimate expectation that the legal expenses insurance cover extended to 
the bed and breakfast activities. Im not persuaded this is the case. 
The documents outline the extent of the legal expenses cover and from this I think its fair to 
say that there wouldnt be a reasonable inference that these extended to cover the bed and 
breakfast activities. The policy documents outline the types of disputes which are covered 
and the relevant terms and conditions which apply. The bed and breakfast extension is 
distinct and separate from the legal expenses insurance section.
So having considered the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded that Ryans provided 
misleading, unclear or unfair material to Mrs M which meant that she was led to believe she 
was paying for cover which wasnt provided by the policy. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Ben WilliamsOmbudsman