DRN-3446806
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited dealt with a 
joint account she had an interest in and about the way Scottish Widows handled matters 
following the death of the joint account holder. She also complains about the way Scottish 
Widows handled her complaints when things started to go wrong.
This complaint is brought on behalf of Mrs B by her representative. I am grateful to Mrs Bs 
representative for his assistance in bringing this complaint. But, to keep things simpler, Ill 
mostly refer to Mrs B as the complainant.  
What happened
For some years, Mrs B jointly held a Scottish Widows lump sum Open Ended Investment 
Company (OEIC) account. 
On 23 January 2019, agents acting for Mrs Bs representative notified Scottish Widows of 
the joint account holders death in October 2018 and forwarded the death certificate. This led 
to Scottish Widows subsequently transferring the holding in the joint account to a new 
account set up in Mrs Bs sole name. 
After Mrs Bs representative was appointed by the court to deal with the estate of the 
deceased account holder, he contacted Scottish Widows in April 2020 to find out information 
about Mrs Bs holdings following the joint account holders death - with a view to also taking 
over responsibility for managing Mrs Bs financial affairs. 
 
Before it would engage with Mrs Bs representative, Scottish Widows required her 
representative to provide various documents, including the joint account holders death 
certificate it had already seen as well as sight of the Power of Attorney (POA) document 
showing authority to act on behalf of Mrs B. 
Scottish Widows wanted to see the original POA document in order to satisfy its procedural 
requirements for verifying the representatives identity, before it would update its records and 
take instructions or provide information about the account to Mrs Bs representative. 
When it returned the original POA, a number of pages were missing  its been suggested 
these have been destroyed by Scottish Widows.
Frustrated by the difficulties he faced, the delay in getting matters sorted out and the way 
that Scottish Widows was handling matters, Mrs Bs representative made a series of formal 
complaints to Scottish Widows. 
Heres a brief overview of the main complaint issues:
Mrs Bs account had incorrectly been described in correspondence from Scottish 
Widows as an ISA (an individual savings account)- which is what she (and 
subsequently her representative) had understood it to be 
unknown to her representative, Scottish Widows had moved shares in the former 
joint account into Mrs Bs sole name without instructions or authority
Scottish Widows had unreasonably required Mrs Bs representative to produce the 
joint account holders death certificate when this had previously been supplied (it was 
relied on by Scottish Widows when it opened Mrs Bs new sole account)
Scottish Widows had unreasonably required sight of original POA paperwork 
authorising Mrs Bs representative to act in her place when other organisations had 
not insisted on production of original documents  and Scottish Widows not only 
provided an incorrect email address for this purpose but failed to return all the 
original pages  
Scottish Widows hadnt sent account statements or provided account information 
call waiting times had exceeded the time Scottish Widows recorded messaging 
system had advised and been unacceptable
Mrs Bs representative had been involved in a lot of extra trouble and expense 
travelling to see lawyers in order to obtain certified copy documents  which had 
been a particular worry during the pandemic with the associated health risks this 
involved
Mrs Bs financial adviser had similar difficulties dealing with Scottish Widows which 
further involved Mrs Bs representative in trying to sort things out directly with 
Scottish Widows  
as a result of all this, Scottish Widows was responsible for significant delay and 
unnecessary stress which impacted on the health of Mrs Bs representative. 
When Mrs Bs representative complained to Scottish Widows, it said that whilst it didnt 
agree with all the complaint points raised it upheld the complaint overall. It apologised for 
poor service and arranged for a cheque to be paid to Mrs Bs representative for £807, made 
up as follows: 
£750 for the distress and inconvenience resulting from its poor service and the time it 
took Scottish Widows to fully respond to the complaints 
£37 to reimburse the cost of telephone calls Mrs Bs representative had to make to 
Scottish Widows 
£20 to cover the cost of having to replace missing documentation which Scottish 
Widows only partially returned after it had taken a copy. 
Mrs B didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and so her representative 
contacted us. 
After carefully looking into what happened, our investigator agreed that it was evident that 
Scottish Widows hadnt dealt as well as it should have done with Mrs Bs affairs. But he felt 
that, when given the chance to address the complaint points, albeit with delays, Scottish 
Widows had properly recognised the errors it made and £807 compensation was in line with 
what we would expect Scottish Widows to pay in this situation as it fairly took into account 
the level of impact on Mrs B. 
So he didnt feel that Scottish Widows needed to do anything more to put things right. Through her representative, Mrs B disagreed. I have summarised here the main complaint 
points mentioned by her representative:
our investigator took insufficient account of the significant inconvenience and distress 
caused by the mislabelling of the investment product and the situation regarding the 
POA documentation  especially the paperwork which ended up going missing 
Mrs Bs representative was unaware that Scottish Widows had notified Mrs B about 
the change in account number (when the account was transferred to her sole name) 
but said that neither he nor his agents were made aware of this and so were unable 
to get information about the revised account 
the only correspondence seen by the representative described the product as an 
ISA  this led to the representative and his agent asking for information about 
something that didnt exist
the requirement by Scottish Widows that original POA paperwork had to be sent was 
unreasonable and Scottish Widows failed to be flexible or pragmatic in a difficult and 
stressful situation. No other provider refused a certified copy  and ultimately, 
Scottish Widows agreed to accept the last certified copy that Mrs Bs representative 
had in his possession  and then lost around half the pages   
the matter dragged on for months. It resulted in Mrs Bs representative being unable 
to obtain replacement certified copies as, by that time, COVID 19 lockdown 
restrictions were in place and this prevented Mrs Bs representative from undertaking 
other transactions during lockdown 
Scottish Widows used an out of date address (taken from the POA) when 
corresponding with Mrs Bs representative - despite having up to date contact 
information. This led to worries about data breaches
our investigator hadnt commented on the complaint that, following receipt of the 
POA, Scottish Widows failed to register it at their end, causing further delay and 
extreme stress to Mrs Bs representative, so much so that a phone call about this 
made Mrs Bs representative ill for some time after.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand that whats happened has been upsetting and frustrating for 
Mrs B. Id like to reassure Mrs B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh. And having thought 
about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this.  
A large part of the frustration understandably felt by Mrs Bs representative concerns the 
impact of what happened on him. I am very sorry to learn that constantly having to revisit 
bereavement and spend significant time dealing with this matter, due to the service failings 
and errors on the part of Scottish Widows, was very upsetting and impacted on his mental 
health  even to the extent that this resulted in medication being prescribed. Mrs Bs 
representative has asked me to consider significant compensation for whats happened. I sympathise with his position. 
But, when thinking about what I can fairly and reasonably require Scottish Widows to do to 
put things right, I must keep in mind that redress for its poor service is owed to Mrs B, rather 
than to her representative. This is because Mrs B is the account holder and Scottish Widows 
owed its duty of care to her. It is the impact on Mrs B that matters when thinking about 
whether Scottish Widows has provided fair compensation to reflect the extent and impact of 
what happened. I can look into the way Scottish Widows has dealt with matters concerning 
Mrs Bs account and require Scottish Widows to put things right for Mrs  B if I find it hasnt 
acted fairly or reasonably towards her. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. I havent commented on everything Mrs Bs 
representative has said during the course of this complaint where theres nothing more I can 
usefully add to what our investigator has said already. Its my role to identify and focus on 
what I think is relevant and explain how I have reached my conclusions. I will deal with all 
the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
Its not in dispute that Scottish Widows provided what it has described as extremely poor 
service. Our investigator set out a comprehensive chronology of events in his view letter. As 
far as I can see, neither Mrs B nor Scottish Widows has taken issue with this timeline of 
events. So, I dont think I need to say more about the details of the background 
circumstances giving rise to this complaint and I have set out just a brief overview and 
mentioned above some of the main things that happened  and what went wrong. In my 
decision, I have concentrated on what I think its fair and reasonable to expect Scottish 
Widows to do to put things right, given the extent of the shortcomings there have been in the 
service provided to Mrs B.
Scottish Widows acknowledged that there have been times where it sent correspondence 
incorrectly labelling Mrs Bs investment as an ISA  which it said was an administrative error. 
I think Scottish Widows rightly acknowledged its mistake. It also clarified the type of account 
Mrs B holds (and has always held), apologised for its error and explained why any dividend 
income would be subject to tax, unlike an ISA. 
On the death of the joint account holder the money in the account automatically belonged to 
Mrs B alone, as the surviving account holder. Scottish Widows correctly opened a new 
account in Mrs Bs sole name to reflect this change. But I agree that Scottish Widows should 
have informed Mrs B about this  which it said it failed to do. I have noted that Scottish 
Widows apologised for this in its final response letter. 
I havent overlooked that fact that neither Mrs Bs representative nor his agents were initially 
able to get information about the revised account and they were unaware that some of the 
information they held about Mrs Bs holdings was inaccurate and out of date. I can 
completely understand why this has been a source of such frustration. But I think it's fair to 
say that until Scottish Widows was satisfied it had verified that Mrs Bs representative was 
authorised to act, not just in his capacity as the person responsible for administering the joint 
account holders estate but also on Mrs Bs behalf, then I cant fairly say that Scottish 
Widows acted unreasonably. I understand that full account details have now been provided 
to Mrs Bs representative and the nature of her holdings is clear. 
Scottish Widows acknowledged that asking for a second death certificate was unacceptable. 
It explained that the certificate it originally received had been logged under the old account 
number and recognised that it could have done more to check this out, and so avoided the 
resulting stress and inconvenience caused. I cant fairly say that Scottish Widows did anything wrong when it asked Mrs Bs 
representative to send original POA documentation. Its up to each financial business to 
decide what paperwork it requires to see  and I am glad to note that ultimately this issue 
was resolved.
Scottish Widows accepted it had been remiss in failing to send out requested statements 
and made arrangements for this to happen. But it confirmed it had sent information about the 
account to Mrs Bs representatives agent. 
Thinking about everything, I think the way Scottish Widows assessed compensation owed to 
Mrs B and the £807 compensation paid already broadly reflects the level of award I would 
make in these circumstances. It seems clear that it was mainly Mrs Bs representative who 
had all the stress of sorting things out on a day to day basis. But all of these things resulted 
in unnecessary delay which would likely have impacted on Mrs B also.  
It has recognised that Mrs Bs representative has likely incurred some actual extra costs and 
properly paid an amount to cover those costs so avoiding the burden of these expenses 
falling back on Mrs B. And in my view, the £750 redress reflects the impact of Scottish 
Widows poor service on Mrs B.  
So no further redress is appropriate. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
As Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited has already done everything I would 
expect it to do to put things right for Mrs B, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman