DRN-2633038
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold car insurance by One Call Insurance Services Limited.
What happened
Mr G bought a car insurance policy on-line through One Call, having used a comparison 
website. One Call acted as a broker or intermediary. The policy is underwritten by another 
company.
Mr G says he chose that policy because the website said it included free legal and 
breakdown cover. After hed bought the policy, Mr G says he realised the breakdown cover 
wasnt free. He says this because the policy includes a £20 excess for each call out. Mr G 
tried to cancel the policy, but he was told hed have to pay an administration fee.
Mr G made a complaint to One Call. He said hed been misled about the policy by the 
advertising which said the breakdown cover was free. And he hadnt been told about the £20 
excess  or the cancellation administration fee  before he paid for the policy.
One Call told Mr G all the relevant information about the policy had been available to him on-
line before he bought the policy. But, as a gesture of good will, they offered to upgrade his 
breakdown cover for free  to a premium version with no excess charge on call outs. And 
they said that if Mr G still wanted to cancel, they would waive their administration fee and 
refund the premium  less an amount to cover the time Mr G had already been insured.
Mr G didnt want to cancel his policy on that basis. And he declined the upgrade to his 
breakdown cover because he said hes bought alternative cover elsewhere. And because he 
wasnt happy with One Calls response, he brought his complaint to us. He wants to cancel 
his policy with no administration fee and a full refund of his premium.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think One Call had done anything wrong. Mr G 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Call have a number of obligations to their customers when theyre selling or brokering 
insurance policies. Amongst other things, theyre obliged to be clear with the customer about 
what theyre buying. Which means they should make the terms and conditions available to 
the customer before he or she makes the purchase. 
They should also particularly draw to the customers attention any specific terms or 
conditions which are unusual or particularly onerous. And of course, they should avoid 
making statements which are untrue or misleading.
Weve seen screenshots of the journey Mr G took through the comparison website, to One 
Calls website and on to the purchase of the policy. Weve shared these with Mr G  its 
entirely understandable that he cant recall the exact order of events or the exact information 
he was presented with at each stage.
Whats clear is that before he committed to buying the policy, Mr G was presented with a 
screen which had links to various documents. These included the policy documents  
including the one specifically relating to the breakdown cover. And they included a document 
which set out One Calls charge for providing the service  including the cancellation 
charges. 
That screen specifically instructs the customer to check the documents before purchasing 
their policy. The relevant documents make it absolutely clear that theres an excess of £20 
for breakdown call outs. And that theres an administration fee for cancellations.
Neither the excess nor the cancellation fee are unusual or onerous. Most insurance policies 
have excesses and most carry a cancellation fee. So, Im satisfied One Call arent under any 
obligation to specifically draw their customers attention to those terms.
Im also satisfied that it wasnt inaccurate or misleading to refer to the breakdown cover as 
being provided free with the car insurance policy. Theres an excess in the policy relating to 
call outs. This is there whether you pay for the policy or not. Mr G wasnt being asked to pay 
an additional premium for his breakdown cover.
In summary, I cant reasonably conclude that One Call did anything wrong in the way they 
sold the policy to Mr G. And so, Im not going to uphold the complaint or ask One Call to do 
anything more.
In answering Mr Gs complaint, One Call did make a number of offers to Mr G  including 
waiving the cancellation fee or giving him breakdown cover without any excess. Its nor for 
me to comment on those offers, although they would appear very reasonable. I dont think 
One Call did anything wrong, so Im not going to require them to do anything for Mr G. Its 
entirely up to them as to whether those offers still stand if Mr G now wants to take them up.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman