DRN-4332333
Complaint
Mrs T has complained about a personal loan Fairscore Ltd (trading as Updraft) which she 
says was unfairly lent to her. She says the loan was unaffordable as she already had 
numerous loans and credit cards which would have shown up on her credit file.
Background
Updraft provided Mrs T with a loan for £4,000.00 in March 2021. This loan had an APR of 
25.73% and a 36-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £5,609.30, 
which included interest fees and charges of £1,609.30, was due to be repaid in 35 monthly 
instalments of £153.98 followed by a final instalment of £220.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs T and Updraft had told us. She thought that 
Updraft hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs T unfairly when it provided this loan and 
so didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs T disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ts complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Updraft needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Updraft needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether Mrs T could afford to make her repayments before providing this 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Updraft says it approved Mrs Ts application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information 
on a credit search it carried out which showed Mrs Ts existing commitments were relatively 
well maintained at the time  as far as it was concerned there was only an issue with a 
single payment and this had been addressed by Mrs T. 
In Updrafts view all of the information it gathered showed that Mrs T could afford to make 
the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs T has said she was already 
struggling with the debts she had and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs T and Updraft have said. 
As Updraft asked Mrs T about her income and expenditure and also carried out a credit 
check, its clear that Updraft did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided 
to proceed with Mrs Ts application. 
Having looked at the results of the credit check, its clear that Mrs T had some existing 
debts. However, while I accept that Mrs T might not agree with this, I dont think that these 
were excessive in comparison to her income. Mrs T did have one account that was showing 
as being slightly over the limit and a single late payment. However, it looks like Mrs T was 
asked about this and she told Updraft that this was down to her husband having been on 
furlough during the pandemic and that hed recently returned to work. 
Furthermore, the information from the time shows that Mrs T said she was going to use the 
funds from this loan to reduce what she owed on her credit cards. I dont know whether          
Mrs T did go on to do this. But this would have addressed one of Mrs Ts accounts being 
slightly over the limit. 
Furthermore, Updraft could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known whether Mrs T would still have the same balances 
on her credit cards  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on assurances from 
Mrs T that the balances would be repaid with these funds. So Im satisfied that the proceeds 
of this loan could and should have been used to reduce Mrs Ts existing credit card balances 
in the way that she committed to. 
And as this was a first loan Updraft was arranging for Mrs T, there wasnt a history of Mrs T 
obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she committed to 
either. So Updraft was reasonably entitled to believe that Mrs T would be left in a better 
position after being provided with this loan.
I accept that Mrs Ts actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Updraft obtained. For example, shes provided a 
copy of her full credit file which indicates that there may have been other credit commitments 
that didnt show up on Updrafts credit search. But Updraft was entitled to rely on its credit 
search. And I wouldnt expect it to second guess a credit search carried out with a 
reasonable credit reference agency. 
Given the circumstances, Id expect Updraft to have a reasonable idea of Mrs Ts income 
and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather than a complete review 
of Mrs Ts finances. Furthermore, Mrs T hasnt provided anything which clearly demonstrates 
further checks would have shown the loan payments were clearly unaffordable either  
particularly if shed reduced her credit card balances in the way that shed committed to.
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mrs T is suggesting. As this is the case, I dont think that Updraft did anything wrong when providing this loan to Mrs T - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Updraft didnt treat Mrs T 
unfairly or unreasonably when lending to her. And Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mrs T  as she clearly feels strongly 
about this matter. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman