DRN-3620375
The complaint
Mr C complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) unfairly transferred his Zurich pension to 
a different provider (Provider A), with whom he then bought an annuity. He said Zurich didnt 
consider his health or tell him about enhanced annuities. And that they didnt make him 
aware of the Open Market Option (OMO). 
Mr C is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision. 
It should be noted that although this complaint could be considered to be outside of this 
services jurisdiction, due to how long ago the annuity was set up, Zurich have given their 
consent to this service to consider it.
What happened
Mr C had a paid-up pension with Zurich. This started on 1 February 1989. Mr C selected a 
retirement age of 60 for the pension. He didnt have a financial adviser at the time of the 
annuity purchase. Zurich couldnt provide advice at the time. 
In January 2010, Mr C asked Zurich for an early retirement quote. It was important that his 
early retirement was processed fairly quickly as his right to early retire at this point was 
about to be withdrawn by Government changes, which were coming into effect from 6 April 
2010.  
Several annuity quotes were produced for Mr C. And Zurich said theyd received all the 
information they needed on 19 February 2010. Mr C completed the retirement claim form. 
And an annuity was set up with a provider Zurich worked with  provider A.
Mr Cs annuity started on 21 February 2010. The total pension fund had been £9,973.50. He 
received a tax-free cash sum of £2,493.38. And the remaining £7,480.12 fund was used to 
buy an annuity of £323.04 each year. Monthly in arrears payments of £26.92 started to be 
paid. I understand that Zurich received £142.12 commission from the annuity provider for 
arranging the annuity.
Mr C complained to Zurich through his CMC in March 2021. He said that hed been suffering 
from bad health before he bought his annuity. But that none of his health or poor lifestyle 
habits were taken into account when his annuity was arranged. And that Zurich never made 
him aware that he may be able to buy an enhanced annuity which could provide a greater 
income. He also said that Zurich never made him aware of his right to shop around in the 
Open Market for either a standard or an enhanced annuity. Mr C felt that Zurich had the duty 
of care to ensure that the annuity theyd recommended to him was in his best interests. And 
that theyd acted negligently. 
Mr C said that if hed been suitably advised he wouldnt have purchased the annuity he had. 
But he wouldve searched the entire open market for an enhanced annuity which wouldve 
yielded a higher income due to his ill health and lifestyle habits. Or if that hadnt been 
possible, a better standard annuity that wouldve provided a bigger income. To put things 
right, he wanted Zurich to refund the income he hadnt been paid in the years since he 
bought this annuity, plus 8% interest each year. And future annuity payments which reflected 
the position he wouldve been in when he purchased this annuity.
Zurich issued their final response to the complaint on 28 July 2021. They didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. They said that they hadnt been annuity specialists. And they had 
never provided advice to Mr C at any stage of the process. Zurich said they werent allowed 
to give financial advice. They said that although their customers had the option of buying an 
annuity with them, theyd also worked with chosen annuity providers who could offer more 
competitive annuity rates and terms. They said that in 2010 they worked with provider A. But 
that they had no control over the annuity rates they offered. 
Zurich said that Mr C also had the option of taking his retirement benefits with another 
pension provider under the OMO. And that theyd never offered enhanced annuities. They 
said that provider As annuity rates provided a higher income than their own rates in January 
2010. And that theyd sent Mr C both quotes from themselves and provider A, and the 
relevant claim information, which explained all his claim options. They said this confirmed 
the OMO and explained that Mr C could receive a higher annuity based on his personal 
circumstances. 
Mr C was unhappy with Zurichs response. So brought his complaint to this service 3 August 
2021.
In his first view of 13 March 2022, our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. 
He felt that Zurich hadnt put Mr C in a sufficiently informed position, in line with what the 
regulator at that time expected, about applying for an enhanced annuity based on specific 
lifestyle conditions. To put things right, he recommended that Zurich put Mr C back to the 
position he wouldve been in for both his past and future losses, when compared to the 
enhanced annuity rate he wouldve got based on his circumstances. He also felt that Zurich 
should pay Mr C £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused. 
Zurich didnt agree with our investigator. They said that Mr C hadnt provided them with any 
explanation about why he was claiming his retirement benefits before his selected retirement 
age. And that hed had a limited time in which to claim his pension benefits before his 
eligibility to retire so early fell away. Zurich felt that the information theyd provided to Mr C 
during his claim had given him enough information about enhanced annuities. They provided 
a number of references to enhanced annuities in the material they and provider A had given 
Mr C at the time of his claim. 
A new investigator took over the case. He asked Mr C some questions about the annuity 
purchase. He said the information Zurich had highlighted when theyd responded to his view 
mentioned the option of looking elsewhere for a different provider that could offer Mr C a 
different level of income. And also that he could get a higher income based on any health 
issues he had. He asked Mr C if he looked at other providers, given his various health issues 
at the time. He also asked Mr C to confirm if hed had any financial advice before choosing 
his annuity.
Mr C told this service that he didn't have a financial adviser at the time. He hadnt looked at 
other providers. And agreed that it was his responsibility to make his own choices about the 
annuity at the time. 
Our investigator issued a revised view on the complaint on 15 July 2022. He didnt consider 
that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr C hadnt made Zurich, or provider A, 
aware of his health and lifestyle issues before taking his lump sum and annuity. So they 
hadnt had the chance to discuss those with him. He also felt that he would or shouldve know from the information Zurich provided at the time of the annuity purchase that other 
annuity providers offered different rates/terms. But this hadnt led to him looking for different 
quotes. He also felt that Mr C had been given sufficient information to draw his attention to 
how health issues could have an impact on annuities from different providers.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr C. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Mr Cs position is that Zurich didnt consider his health or tell him about enhanced annuities 
at the time of his annuity purchase. And that they didnt make him aware of the OMO.
Zurichs position is that they had provided enough information to Mr C about both enhanced 
annuities and the OMO. They felt that the information theyd provided to Mr C during his 
claim had given him enough information about enhanced annuities.  They provided a 
number of references to enhanced annuities in the material they and provider A had given 
Mr C at the time of his claim. 
I first looked at the regulators rules about what an annuity provider was required to do at the 
time of the annuity purchase. The rules required the provider to issue an OMO statement to 
the consumer, which it defined as either:
(a) the FSAs Your pension: its time to choose factsheet, together with a written 
summary of the consumers open market option, which was sufficient for them to 
make an informed decision about whether to exercise, or to decline to exercise, an 
OMO; or
(b) a written statement that gives materially the same information.
It still wasnt compulsory for a provider to give the FSA factsheet to a consumer. But if it 
didnt, I need to check that what was provided gave materially the same information as the 
factsheet used at that time.
The rules also required a provider to mention that annuity enhancements werent just for 
someone in poor health, but might also cover lifestyle conditions such as being overweight, 
having high cholesterol or smoking. 
I next looked at the information Zurich provided to Mr C after hed asked them for an early 
retirement quote. I needed to decide whether I considered hed been given enough 
information. And also whether hed been given the information the regulator had required 
him to be given at the time of the annuity purchase.
Looking first at the information Mr C had been given about the OMO, I first considered 
Zurichs 25 January 2010 retirement pack to Mr C, relating to his request for an annuity 
quote. This letter explained that Zurich had compared their annuity rates with provider A. 
And provider As rates had been better than Zurichs. The letter also said in bold text that Mr 
C still had: the right to an open market option.
The retirement pack gave some information about the OMO. It said that Mr C could shop around for a different annuity provider. And that different providers offered different types of 
annuity, rates, charging, and pricing structures. It also said that it may be possible to find an 
annuity that was more suitable for Mr Cs circumstances. The pack also allowed Mr C to 
choose the OMO.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the information Zurich provided in their 25 January 
2010 retirement pack contained enough information for Mr C to decide whether he wanted to 
choose the OMO or not. Therefore I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
I next considered the information Mr C was given about enhanced annuities. As I noted 
earlier, as provider As annuity rates were better for Mr C than Zurichs, he decided to buy an 
annuity from them. So at this point, further information on his annuity was provided by 
provider A. They provided a number of documents to Mr C. These included personalised 
quotes, key facts, and the Income for life document. 
The Income for life document confirmed that a customer would want to choose an income 
that met their individual needs and that they might:
Be in good health for your age. But if youre not, you could be entitled to a higher income 
than normal because of ill health.
As I mentioned earlier, the rules at the time of the annuity purchase also required a provider 
to give a consumer information about enhanced annuities. They needed to mention that 
annuity enhancements werent just for someone in poor health, but might also cover lifestyle 
conditions.
Both the key facts and the Income for life documents contained information on this. 
Page 9  Your lifestyle  health related factors such as whether you smoke may also be 
taken into account.
Page 9  Your choice of income is an important decision because it affects your buying 
power over the long term and once you have chosen an option you cant change it in the 
future. When deciding the income option thats most appropriate for you, you may want to 
consider factors such as  your age, gender, health, lifestyle, personal life expectancy, 
expectations about inflation and the impact of each option on future income levels.
And Zurichs January 2010 letter had covered enhanced annuities. It had said: 
An option relevant to some may be an enhanced lifetime annuity or an impaired lifetime 
annuity. These types of annuity give a higher than usual income and may be offered to you if 
the provider considers your lifestyle or state of health has reduced the likely period of 
payment to below the average Hie expectancy.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Zurich ensured that Mr C received the information 
required under the rules in force at the time. I say this because although Ive not seen that 
he was sent the: Your pension: its time to choose factsheet, Im satisfied that the 
information sent to Mr C constituted: a written statement that gives materially the same 
information. Im also of the view that given Mr Cs existing health problems and knowledge 
of his own poor lifestyle habits, the information provided wouldve given him reasonable 
awareness that he might get a better pension if he looked around for enhanced annuity 
options.
Mr C has told this service that he accepted that the documents he received contained 
enough information and guidance to make him aware of what he could do. But he said that at that stage in his life he didnt understand the full consequences. This is because of his 
health and lifestyle issues at that time. Mr C told this service these were the main reasons he 
didnt fully consider exploring either the OMO or requesting further information on 
enhanced/health related annuities from other providers.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr C was suffering at the time of the annuity purchase. But Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr C told either Zurich or provider A that he had these issues when 
he bought the annuity. 
Therefore I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Zurich 
responsible for Mr C not looking into buying an enhanced annuity. They didnt know he might 
benefit from one. And I consider that they gave him sufficient information in the 
documentation that they sent for him to have been able to realise it may be beneficial to look 
into enhanced annuities. But he didnt search around or get different quotes.
Based on what Ive seen, I havent found any evidence that Zurich acted incorrectly. So I 
dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman