DRN-3988514
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Esure Services Limited trading as Esure, threatened to cancel his car 
insurance policy after it made a mistake in quoting a revised renewal premium.  
What happened
Esure sent Mr D a renewal quote for his car insurance policy. However, in the intervening 
period Mr D was involved in an accident. Esure requoted the renewal price based on the 
incident happening, which resulted in the price increasing. Mr D paid this amount.
Esure later realised its representative had made a mistake and not reduced Mr Ds NCD 
entitlement when amending the policy details. It wrote to Mr D saying the claim had 
increased the renewal price further and requested an additional premium amount be paid. It 
explained that if this amount was not paid the policy would be cancelled. 
Mr D complained as he was unhappy about Esures actions and its threat to cancel his 
policy. He went on to source insurance elsewhere but is concerned about what could have 
happened had he not seen Esures email. 
Esure apologised and offered Mr D £75 compensation, which our investigator thought was 
reasonable. 
Mr D did not accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mistakes do happen, however what I look for when considering cases like this is 
whether the business has acknowledged its error and taken steps to put things right. 
Here Esure apologised and offered Mr D compensation, which I think is reasonable. 
I understand Mr Ds concerns about Esure saying it may cancel the policy if the 
payment was not received. However, the policy terms and conditions do allow it to do 
this. 
We cant compensate for what might have happened, only what did. So while I 
appreciate Mr D has said he may have driven uninsured and the impact that could 
have had on him if he was stopped by the police. This didnt happen, although in 
saying this I do acknowledge it is natural to consider the what ifs and this has 
caused Mr D worry. 
Esure has offered Mr D £75 compensation and I think this fairly reflects the trouble 
and upset he was caused by its initial error. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against Esure Services Limited 
trading as Esure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman