DRN-3924109
The complaint
Miss C complains about Vitality Health Limiteds actions when her private medical insurance 
policy was due for renewal. 
What happened
Miss C held a private medical insurance policy, provided by Vitality. The policy was due to 
renew on 19 October 2022.
On 20 September 2022, Vitality wrote to Miss C saying the policy would renew automatically 
and setting out the premium payments for the policy year ahead. Vitality says it also tried to 
call Miss C around six times in advance of her policy renewing, but Miss C has explained 
she doesnt feel safe giving her personal details out over the phone when she is not 
expecting a call.
On 18 October 2022, Miss C contacted Vitality to see if she could get a more competitive 
rate but Vitalitys computer systems were down so she was told no-one could help her that 
day. Miss C says she was under the impression that shed raised a complaint during this 
call. Later the same day, Miss C received an email from Vitality confirming the policy had 
renewed. 
On 30 October 2022, Miss C replied to Vitalitys renewal email to say she hadnt heard back 
from it about her formal complaint. 
On 23 November 2022 and 24 November 2022, Miss C spoke to and exchanged emails with 
Vitality about what had happened and questioned why two premium payments had been 
taken from her bank account without her authorisation. On 24 November 2022, Vitality 
confirmed it would cancel Miss Cs private medical insurance policy with effect from the 
renewal date and refund the premiums shed paid. Vitality said it would waive the 
administration fee of £40 as a gesture of goodwill.  
Unhappy, Miss C brought her complaint to the attention of our service. Miss C subsequently 
told us she was also unhappy because Vitality delayed in refunding the premium payments 
to her. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Vitality had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Miss C didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide, as the final stage 
in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and impartial and, when making my final 
decision, I need to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable to both parties. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C, and I appreciate the issues she experienced have caused her 
inconvenience, but I wont be directing Vitality to do anything more and Ill explain why. 
Vitality, under the terms and conditions of Miss Cs policy, was entitled to 
automatically renew her policy at the premium rates it set out as applying in its letter 
of 20 September 2022. The letter explained that the policy would renew automatically 
and explained Miss Cs right to cancel within 14 days of the renewal date. 
Miss C says she didnt wish to speak to Vitality on the occasions when it called her, 
because she didnt feel safe giving her personal details to someone who she wasnt 
expecting a call from. I can appreciate Miss Cs concerns, and it is her choice about 
who she wishes to provide her personal details to, but I cant fairly conclude that 
Vitality acted unreasonably when it asked Miss C to complete security questions 
either when it called her or when she called it. Vitality was doing this to protect Miss 
Cs personal data.   
I understand Miss C wanted to speak to Vitality about the price of her policy before it 
renewed. The fact that Vitalitys systems werent working on 18 October 2022 was no 
doubt frustrating for Miss C. However, this was outside of Vitalitys control and, in any 
event, Vitality was under no obligation to speak to Miss C about the price of her 
policy before renewing the contract in line with the notification letter it sent to her on 
20 September 2022. If Miss C didnt want her policy to automatically renew then she 
needed to tell Vitality this, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Miss C did 
so. 
It follows that I dont think Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably when it automatically 
renewed Miss Cs policy. I also dont think Vitality took premium payments from Miss 
Cs account without her authorisation  it did this in line with the terms of its 
agreement with Miss C.  
I understand Miss C believes she raised a complaint with Vitality during her call with 
it on 18 October 2022. But the evidence Ive seen suggests that, because Vitalitys 
systems werent working on that day, it was unable to gain access to Miss Cs 
account. So, I dont therefore think its likely that Vitality would have been in a 
position to log a formal complaint for Miss C on that day.  
Miss C emailed Vitality chasing it for a response to her formal complaint on 30 
October 2022. Vitality says it didnt receive this email until Miss C forwarded it to an 
advisor again during a telephone call on 23 November 2022. Miss Cs email of 30 
October 2022 appears to have been sent to an email address which isnt used for 
policy enquiries and which Vitality specifically states shouldnt be used for 
correspondence. So, based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I cant fairly 
conclude that Vitality likely received Miss Cs email when she first sent it. 
Im satisfied that Vitality fairly addressed Miss Cs complaint on 24 November 2022. 
Miss C was outside the 14-day cooling off period from renewal during which she 
could cancel the policy and receive a refund at this point. But Vitality agreed to 
cancel her policy, refund the premiums, and waive the administration fee due and I 
think this was reasonable in all the circumstances.
Vitalitys email to Miss C of 24 November 2022 set out referral rights to our service. 
This means that, even if I were to accept that Miss C first registered a complaint on 
18 October 2022, Vitality provided Miss C with a final response letter within the 
timeframe set out by the regulator. Miss C subsequently told us she is also unhappy with the delay in receiving the 
premium refund. Its not possible, or realistic to expect, for premiums to be refunded 
to a policyholders bank account instantly in circumstances like this. While I 
acknowledge that the refund took longer than Vitality said it would, Miss C received 
the refund within around 15 working days. I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Miss C has explained how Vitalitys actions in this case impacted on her. I dont 
doubt that Miss C experienced distress and frustration because of what happened in 
this case, but I dont think Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances 
so I wont be asking it to pay Miss C any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman