DRN-3400004
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with her 
credit card account credit limit.
What happened
Ms S says Barclaycard told her it was lowering her credit limit, but it didnt consider her 
account management and asked her to provide information about future earnings which was 
difficult. She says Barclaycards behaviour amounted to harassment and it didnt tell her 
where it had obtained information about her financial position or where it had obtained 
permission from. Ms S says she managed her account appropriately and would like 
compensation for what took place. She would also like the credit limit retained.
Barclaycard says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to reconsider a 
customers credit limit. It says it wrote to Ms S in September 2021 to tell her it was reducing 
her credit limit from £660 to £400 but hasnt reduced the limit due to other reasons. 
Barclaycard says it was entitled to ask Ms S for information about her future financial 
position as she was self employed and uses information from the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) as it makes clear in the account terms and conditions.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to reduce a credit 
limit and request further information from its customers.
Ms S doesnt accept that view and maintains she was harassed but accepts a credit limit can 
be reduced. She says the limit should not have been reduced in her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions which I am satisfied that Ms S 
would have agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make 
clear that Barclaycard can change a credit limit and review an account. I can see that Ms S 
accepts that it is entitled to do so. I also think that its up to a business to decide, when 
exercising its commercial judgement, what its risk appetite is and is not something, I can 
fairly interfere in. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by reviewing 
Ms Ss account and concluding that it wished to lower her credit limit. I also think its up to 
Barclaycard to use such information it wishes to reach a decision about this type of issue.
I can see in any event that Barclaycard hasnt reduced the credit limit for other reasons but 
make clear that Im satisfied that it has a duty to review customers accounts. And is entitled 
to make business decisions about them.
I appreciate Ms S says her account management ought to have been considered and I 
agree that would form one part of considered information but cant be the only one. Im 
satisfied that its up to Barclaycard to decide on such matters as a credit limit and its not 
obliged to provide credit facilities or at a certain level. And I also think Barclaycard was 
reasonably entitled to ask Ms S questions about future income as part of its requirement to 
lend responsibly. I think that Ms S would have given permission for her credit file to be 
accessed as part of her original application which would include ongoing access for reviews 
as here.
I have looked at Barclaycards letters to Ms S and its actions. I dont think those actions 
amount to harassment but were reasonable requests for further information. It follows that I 
cant fairly order Barclaycard pay compensation in these circumstances or do anything 
further. I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed in my decision but find this now brings an end 
to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman