DRN-3744095
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(CCA).
What happened
In 2013 Mr and Mrs L purchased a trial timeshare membership from a timeshare supplier 
(Business D) for the price of £3,000. Mr L took out a point of sale loan with BPF to pay the 
full price of the trial membership, which he repaid in regular instalments over 12 months. The 
balance was repaid in full by October 2014 and the account was closed at that time.
In 2021 Mr L contacted BPF via a professional representative to raise a claim against them 
in relation to the timeshare purchase - because BPF provided Mr L with the finance to buy it. 
In summary, his representative said Business D misrepresented the timeshare to Mr L for a 
number of reasons, which means he has a like claim against BPF under section 75 of the 
CCA. They also said the timeshare agreement is null and void as it is not a timeshare as 
defined by the EU Directive. They said this creates an unfair relationship between Mr L and 
BPF under section 140A of the CCA in relation to the connected loan agreement, and the 
loan agreement is therefore also null and void. Mr Ls representative also said BPF didnt 
carry out a creditworthiness assessment for Mr L to assess affordability. They asked BPF to 
refund Mr L the money he paid towards the loan, as well as any maintenance fees paid 
under the timeshare contract, plus interest, and to cancel all future liabilities.
Mr Ls representative said they didnt receive a full response from BPF, so they made a 
complaint via our service. In response, BPF said Mr Ls section 75 and section 140A claims 
were made outside of the relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), as 
they were raised more than six years from the date of sale, and more than six years from the 
date of the account closure respectively.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. She concluded that Mr L raised his 
section 75 and section 140A claims outside of the relevant time limits set out under the LA. 
So, she didnt think BPF acted unfairly in declining his claims on this basis.
In response, Mr Ls representative said they disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary, they said:
Business D sold Mr and Mrs L a points-based timeshare which was in breach of the EU 
Directive EU94/47/EC, which makes the timeshare agreement null and void. And 
although the EU Directive was replaced by the Directive 2008/122/EC, the definition of a 
timeshare didnt change.
The Spanish Supreme Court made a ruling that points-based and floating weeks 
timeshare agreements are null and void. It is most likely that the UK Supreme Court or a 
UK judicial review court will come to the same conclusion.
The Spanish Court said that if the contract does not accurately describe the 
accommodation, including the specified time the purchaser of the timeshare has use of 
the accommodation, then the contract is null and void. They believe this means that 
timeshare agreements are null and void if they do not have a specific accommodation in 
a specific week. They asked the ombudsman to comment on the validity of the timeshare 
agreement governed by the EU Directive.
If the timeshare agreement is null and void, this also makes the loan agreement with 
BPF null and void as they are related agreements under the CCA. This also creates an 
unfair relationship between Mr L and BPF.
Mr L couldnt have possibly known that the agreement was null and void until he 
consulted his representative in 2020. Therefore, he had three years from that time to 
make a complaint under the date of knowledge rule. And the complaint was made in 
2021, so there are no time limit issues for this complaint.
Section 14A of the LA should apply to extend limitation as there is a duty of care aspect 
in this case, as BPF shouldnt have provided finance to Mr L to buy the points-based 
timeshare, which was in breach of the EU Directive. So, BPF didnt treat Mr L fairly.
Because the parties disagreed, the case was referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about Mr Ls complaint explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold it. In summary, I said the following in my provisional findings:
I thought Mr L raised his section 75 and section 140A claims outside of the prescribed 
time limits under the LA, so I didnt think BPF acted unreasonably by refusing to consider 
Mr Ls claims on this basis.
I considered the points Mr Ls representative raised about why the time limits should be 
extended under the LA, but I didnt think there were any reasons why time should be 
extended in the circumstances.
I considered everything Mr Ls representative said and the information they provided to 
support their arguments about why the timeshare agreement and loan agreement were 
null and void, but I didnt agree that either agreement was voidable.
I explained that even if BPF didnt carry out the proper checks for affordability and 
creditworthiness, I would still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for 
Mr L and/or that he lost out as a result, in order to uphold this part of his complaint. And I 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show that this was the case. 
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
evidence they wished me to consider before I reached a final decision. 
BPF confirmed they had no further comments, and Mr Ls representative said they had no 
final points to add to Mr Ls claim. So, the complaint was referred back to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, and given neither Mr L, his representative nor BPF have provided any 
further comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. This means I still dont think BPF acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ls 
claims for the same reasons as I explained in my provisional decision, which Ive detailed 
below.Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mr Ls representative said that Business D misrepresented a number of points in relation to 
the timeshare agreement he purchased. In particular, they said Mr L agreed to buy the 
timeshare as an option of travelling to different parts of the world, and because he could sell 
it in the future. However, the availability for holidays was not as expected, and Mr and Mrs L 
had to book a long way in advance to get the dates they wanted. Mr Ls representative also 
said they now cannot sell the timeshare but, as noted in my provisional findings, the 2013 
purchase Mr L complained about was for a trial membership, that was set to run for 48 
months only.
Mr Ls representative said BPF is jointly liable for these misrepresentations under section 75 
of the CCA. But if BPF could show the section 75 claim was brought outside of the time 
limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the 
claim. I should make it clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right Mr L may have to 
bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision 
Im considering whether BPF acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr Ls claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1980 (MA). It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 
(Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded on tort for 
the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (section 2 of the LA).
Here, Mr L brought a like claim against BPF under section 75 of the CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim 
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, 
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the 
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation.
Therefore, the limitation period for the like claim against BPF also expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Ls case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against BPF. I think that was the 
date he entered into the agreement to buy the trial timeshare membership, so in October 
2013. It was at that time that he entered into an agreement based, he says, on the 
misrepresentations of Business D. He claims that he wouldnt have entered into the 
timeshare agreement if those misrepresentations hadnt been made. And it was on that day 
that he suffered a loss, as he took out the loan agreement with BPF.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in October 2013, so Mr L had six 
years from that date to bring a claim. But he didnt try to contact BPF about his claim until 
August 2021, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I still think BPF acted 
fairly in seeking to turn down Mr Ls misrepresentation claim on this basis.The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Amongst other reasons, Mr L said that the relationship between him and BPF was unfair 
under section 140A of the CCA because the related timeshare agreement was null and void 
and, therefore, so was the loan agreement.
Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but 
I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. BPF has shown that Mr Ls loan agreement was 
paid off in October 2014 and said the account was closed at that time.
As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr L 
would have to bring an action within six years from the date of closure. As he didnt do that, I 
still think he brought his claim too late. This means I also dont think BPF acted unfairly in 
seeking to decline a claim under section 140A on this basis. So, I dont think it needs to do 
anything further.
Mr Ls arguments on limitation
Mr Ls representative said Mr L made his complaint within three years from when he had the 
required knowledge to do so (after he consulted his representative), which means he made it 
in time under the three year date of knowledge rule. But Mr Ls representative hasnt 
explained what rule they are referring to.
There is a part of the rules from the FCA Handbook that sets out what our service can 
consider (the DISP rules), and refers to the complainant having to make their complaint 
within three years from the date on which they became aware they had cause to complain 
(DISP 2.8.2(2)). But the investigator did not conclude Mr Ls complaint was raised outside of 
this three year rule, and neither am I reaching such a conclusion. Rather, I am considering 
the time limits BPF relied on when saying that Mr Ls claims were made out of time under the 
LA, as Ive already explained.
Section 14A of the LA also provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where 
facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of 
that section). And Mr Ls representative specifically said that this section should apply to 
Mr Ls claims. But I disagree. As explained in my provisional decision, section 14A provides 
for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what happened 
when Mr L purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think there was an obligation 
to give Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed 
choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or 
advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to which section 14A of the LA could 
apply. So, I dont think the relevant time limits should be extended on this basis. And I still 
dont think there are any other reasons why time should be extended in the circumstances of 
this case.
Overall, while I think BPF ought to have responded to Mr Ls claims under the CCA sooner, I 
think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claims were brought too 
late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr L may have 
against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr L might have against BPF has most likely exceeded 
the time limits set out in the LA. And I still havent seen anything that persuades me these 
time limits should be extended. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these 
circumstances. So, I dont think BPF acted unfairly in seeking to decline Mr Ls claims under 
the CCA on this basis. This means I wont be asking it to do anything further in response to 
Mr Ls claims under the CCA.
Is Mr Ls timeshare agreement null and void?
Mr and Mrs Ls trial membership was set to last for a period of 48 months and entitled them 
to a total of 4 weeks of accommodation at any resort from Business Ds portfolio of 
properties. These weeks could be taken separately or together as one long holiday.
Mr Ls representative argues that the timeshare agreement is null and void for the reasons 
set out earlier in my decision. In summary, they said this is because:
The timeshare agreement doesnt conform to the description of a timeshare set out in the 
EU Directive.
The Spanish Supreme Court decided that timeshare agreements like Mr Ls are null and 
void, and its likely the UK courts would reach the same conclusion.
The timeshare contract must specify or accurately describe the accommodation and the 
specific week of use to comply with the EU Directive.
Floating weeks and points-based timeshare agreements are null and void.
They said if the timeshare agreement is null and void, this raises two issues:
(a) It creates an unfair relationship between Mr L and BPF under section 140A, and
(b) The related loan agreement between Mr L and BPF is also null and void.
Ive considered these arguments, along with the EU Directives, Spanish laws and Spanish 
legal judgment Mr Ls representatives referred to, but I am still not persuaded that this is a 
reason to uphold Mr Ls complaint about BPF in these circumstances, or that BPF needs to 
do anything further in response. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive already explained why I consider Mr L raised his section 140A claim too late 
under the LA, so I dont think it would be fair for me to consider point (a) above. Although, I 
can consider point (b) separately, as a stand-alone claim.
Secondly, Mr and Mrs Ls purchase agreement makes clear that their agreement is 
governed by English Law - not Spanish law (see clause 6 of the Purchase Agreement 
conditions). So, I dont think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question of 
whether Mr and Mrs Ls timeshare agreement is voidable under English law. And I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to conclude it should be voidable, given UK Parliament 
recently published a briefing paper in the House of Commons Library titled: Timeshares: 
common problems faced by UK owners, in which it said that a floating week or points 
based timeshare was a basic timeshare model that was not described as being a problem in 
and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. And I 
am satisfied that these types of timeshares have never been prohibited to be sold under 
English law, either at the time of Mr and Mrs Ls sale or after. So, based on the evidence I 
have seen, I do not think either the timeshare agreement or the related loan agreement is
voidable for the reasons Ive explained.Were the proper checks carried out when BPF agreed to lend to Mr L?
Mr L said BPF failed to carry out a creditworthiness assessment for him to check the loan 
was affordable. Even if I were to conclude that BPF or its agents didnt carry out the proper 
checks for creditworthiness and affordability when arranging the loan, I would still need to be 
satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr L and/or that he lost out as a result, in 
order to uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr Ls representative still hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show that this was the 
case. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr L struggled to repay the amount borrowed, 
for example, or that he otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. So, I dont 
think theres sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint either.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint about Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman