DRN-4266300
The complaint
Mrs Q complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund payments totalling 
£1,898 made from her account that she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mrs Q fell victim to a scam in August 2022 after she was 
contacted by a third party (the scammer) claiming to be from Amazon. She was told that 
her account had been subject to fraud and had been used to purchase a mobile phone.
The scammer told Mrs Q that, in order to receive a refund, she would need to open an 
account with Wise. The scammer talked her through how to open an account and two 
payments were made into it from Mrs Qs HSBC and Santander accounts. Two payments 
were then made from Mrs Qs newly opened Wise account using the funds she had 
transferred in from her other banks:
Date/Time Payee Payment method Amount
05/08/2022
9:13amTide account Transfer £949
05/08/2022
9:34amTide account Transfer £949
Mrs Q later realised she had been scammed. She contacted Wise as she claimed that she 
hadnt authorised the two payments made on 5 August 2022. However, Wise thought the 
payments were likely authorised by Mrs Q as it couldnt see how anyone else wouldve been 
able to carry out the transactions, so it declined to refund the money shed lost. Unhappy 
with this, Mrs Q referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the evidence showed that the Wise 
account was likely opened by Mrs Q, and that the payments were made from her device. As 
the investigator couldnt establish any point of compromise, she didnt think it was likely that 
anyone else had made the payments, so concluded they must have been authorised by 
Mrs Q. In terms of the £150 compensation offered, our investigator thought this was fair for 
the delay in Wise contacting the beneficiary bank, as it ultimately wouldnt have made a 
difference given the money had been swiftly transferred out of the account. 
Mrs Q disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it, as I think the payments were most likely authorised by Mrs Q. Ill explain 
why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The disputed transactions complained about took place in August 2022, so of particular 
relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply 
to transactions like the one made from Mrs Qs account.
The PSRs say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where they have given 
their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transactions in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mrs Q 
authorised the transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Mrs Q made the 
transactions herself or gave someone permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments.
In this instance, both payments were made from a newly opened Wise account in Mrs Qs 
name. I can see that the account was opened using Mrs Qs details, and she also sent a 
copy of her drivers license, as well as a picture of herself, in order to verify her identity, 
which matches the person in the drivers license. I appreciate she may have done this 
unwittingly, thinking she was trying to get money back from her Amazon account. But 
nonetheless, Im satisfied she likely opened the account herself and had access to it in order 
to make the payments. 
In terms of the payments themselves, Wise has provided evidence to show that only one 
device was used to ever login to the account, which was the same device/IP address used to 
make the payments. The payments were authenticated by password, which Mrs Q would 
have chosen when she opened the account. And she hasnt said that she shared her Wise 
account login details with anyone. So, given the account had been registered and the 
payments all made from the same device, it seems unlikely that anyone else would have 
been able to log in from a different device with Mrs Qs password.  
Mrs Q has also maintained that no one else had access to her device, and that she did not 
download any remote access software onto her phone either. So, theres seemingly no other 
explanation for how the payments came to be made from her phone, other than them being 
made by Mrs Q. I accept its possible she may not recall doing this at the time if she was 
under pressure from the scammers to try and get the money back she was told shed lost. But given no one else had access to Mrs Qs device, there is seemingly no point of 
compromise for the payments to have been made by an unauthorised third party. 
Therefore, the only plausible conclusion is that either Mrs Q set up the payments after 
opening the Wise account, or she gave her details/device to somebody else, thereby giving 
her consent and authority for payments to be made on her behalf. I appreciate that Mrs Q 
disputes this but given no one else had access to her details or device, there is no other 
more plausible explanation for how the payments could have otherwise been made. 
As a result, I dont think Wise has acted unfairly by failing to treat these payments as 
unauthorised. I do not doubt that Mrs Q has been scammed in these circumstances though 
and may have unwittingly made the payments at the scammers instruction, so I ve 
considered whether Wise ought reasonably to have intervened at any point based on the 
transactions appearing suspicious or out of character. 
However, given the account had been newly opened, there was no previous transaction 
history for Wise to compare the transactions against to determine whether they were 
unusual. And the amounts were also relatively low in value and did not follow any common 
fraud patterns that Wise ought to have identified. Therefore, I dont think it has acted unfairly 
by failing to make further enquiries with Mrs Q before allowing the payments to be 
processed. 
Ive also considered whether Wise did enough to try and recover the money after the fraud 
had been reported. Mrs Q reported the fraud to Wise on 5 August 2022 at 11:02, but it did 
not issue a recall request at that point and didnt do so within a reasonable time frame either. 
However, the beneficiary bank has informed our service that all the funds were moved out of 
the receiving account by 10:54AM on 5 August 2022, which was before Mrs Q has reported 
the fraud to Wise. So, while I think Wise ought to have taken action much sooner than it did, 
it ultimately wouldnt have made any difference as the money was already gone. Wise 
offered £150 compensation in recognition of its delay in contacting the receiving bank. And 
given it wouldnt have been able to recover the money anyway, Im satisfied its offer of 
compensation is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman