DRN-2513065
The complaint
Mr K complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited gave him incorrect information when he 
wanted to surrender his endowment policies prior to the financial crash of 2008. 
What happened
Mr K took out some whole of life policies in 1988 which provided cover of £10,000. In 1995, 
Mr K converted them to Mortgage Multiplans  this meant higher premiums were paid to 
build-up an investment with the intention of mortgage repayment in 2013. However, as the 
plans were whole of life, they didnt have a set maturity date, but instead had to be 
surrendered in order to obtain the fund value. 
Mr K says that he called Aviva before the financial crash of 2008 to obtain a valuation and 
when told it was in excess of £37,000, he asked to surrender it. He complains he was told he 
couldnt as he would lose bonuses, yet when he called after the financial crash, he was told 
he could, but the value had dropped to around £24,000. Mr K surrendered the policies in 
December 2009. 
Aviva didnt uphold his complaint; although it no longer had record of any call that long ago, 
the terms and conditions of the policies explained they could be surrendered anytime and 
that was reflected on its computer system. In addition, as the policy was not with-profits, it 
said its system wouldnt have shown bonuses to be added. 
Our investigator noted the complaint was late and asked Aviva if it consented to us looking 
at it. It did and so she proceeded to investigate it. She concluded that Aviva hadnt done 
anything wrong. She found it more likely he was told to seek financial advice before 
surrendering rather than he couldnt.
Mr K has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He has continued to say he was provided with 
the wrong information about surrendering his policies which caused him a financial loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been made late. Our rules say that unless a business consents, we 
cannot look into a complaint made more than six years after the event complained of, or if 
later, more than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
Mr K complains of being provided with incorrect information at some point before 2008 (the 
financial crash) and he says he became aware he had been given incorrect information in 
2009, prior to surrendering his policies. So his complaint is late as it wasnt made by 2014 at 
the latest. However, as Aviva has consented, I can proceed with deciding this matter. 
One of the reasons time limits exist is because the longer it is left before a complaint is made 
the harder it is to do justice to it. This is because its less likely contemporaneous evidence 
will be available in order to fairly decide matters; under data protection legislation businesses 
arent allowed to keep information for longer than is necessary. Mr K ceased to be Avivas 
customer in relation to this matter when he surrendered the policies in 2009. 
I dont know why Mr K has taken as long as he has to complain about this matter. But 
because it has taken nearly 10 years, the call he says took place is no longer available to 
listen to, and there arent any notes about it either. 
Where the evidence is contradictory, inconclusive or incomplete, as it is here, I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
And I can only ask Aviva to put something right, if I find it has done something wrong. The 
only evidence I have available about what was said is Mr Ks testimony. But I approach that 
with caution, after all memories fade and Mr K is recalling a conversation he says took place 
prior to 2008. I dont find his testimony persuasive enough, to find that Aviva gave him the 
wrong information. I find it just as likely Aviva told him it might not be right to surrender the 
policies rather than he couldnt.
I say this because due to the type of policies Mr K had, the only way he could access the 
funds was to surrender them. I therefore find it unlikely he would have been told that wasnt 
an option.  
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, and realising this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr K, I dont uphold his complaint. It follows that I wont be asking Aviva to 
do anything in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman