DRN-3009219
The complaint
Mr G complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd failed to update his correspondence address in 
1996. As a result he didnt receive any statements on his pension plan and so was unaware 
that its value was being depleted by the application of charges. The value of Mr Gs pension 
plan reduced to zero in 2015, and at that time the plan was closed.
What happened
Mr Gs relationship was with Eagle Star. That firm is now the responsibility of Zurich, so it is 
Zurich that has dealt with Mr Gs complaint. For ease, in this decision, I will refer to Zurich as 
the business that Mr G dealt with.
Mr G started to make pension contributions to a pension plan with Zurich in May 1995 while 
he was employed in the Channel Islands. Just over a year later he left his employment and 
returned to the UK. On 22 October 1996 he wrote to Zurich to confirm that, as a result of a 
change in his employment, he would be suspending payments to his pension plan.
The letter that Mr G sent to Zurich showed a different address to the one held on its records. 
Zurich acknowledged Mr Gs letter by writing to the alternative address, but did not update 
his correspondence address  it says that it would have needed an explicit instruction from 
Mr G before doing so.
Zurich sent annual statements to Mr G regarding his pension plan until 2004 when that 
years statement was returned as unknown at this address. At that time it was unable to 
trace a new address for Mr G, so stopped the production of the annual statements for his 
pension plan.
Recently Mr G got in touch with Zurich to enquire about the value of his pension savings. 
Zurich explained to Mr G that the charges it had deducted from his pension savings over the 
years meant that the value of his pension savings had reduced to nil in 2015. So at that time 
Zurich had closed the pension plan.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think the letter 
that Mr G had sent to Zurich on 22 October 1996 had been sufficient to lead to the firm 
changing his correspondence address. And she thought the charges that Zurich had taken 
from the plan had been reasonable, and in line with the terms and conditions. She also 
explained to Mr G why the transfer value he was quoted in 1996 for his pension savings was 
less than the actual value of the plan. Overall our investigator didnt think that Zurich had 
done anything wrong and so she said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment. He provided us with a copy of a handwritten letter 
that he says he sent to Zurich on 14 October 1996 that explicitly asked for his 
correspondence address to be changed. Zurich says it has no record of that letter so must 
assume that it wasnt received. Without any further evidence of the letter being sent our 
investigator said her opinion on the complaint remained unchanged.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Zurich. The events that Mr G is complaining about took 
place more than 25 years ago. So it wouldnt be surprising if some evidence was missing or 
incomplete. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or 
should, have happened.
Mr G says that he sent two letters to Zurich in October 1996. The first letter  that was 
handwritten  informed Zurich of his new address. Zurich has no record of receiving that 
letter. The second letter  in typewritten form  advised Zurich that due to a change in his 
employment Mr G would be suspending his pension contributions. Zurich received that letter 
and sent an acknowledgement to Mr G. The acknowledgement was sent to the address 
used by Mr G when sending his letter  a UK address that was different to the 
correspondence address Zurich held.
Clearly it is reasonable to expect a firm to change an address it holds for one of its 
customers should it receive a valid instruction to make that change.  But, conversely, it 
wouldnt be possible for a business to make a change to an address without receipt of a 
valid instruction. Here Zurich says it has no record of receiving the letter that Mr G says he 
sent. And I have no reason to doubt that its processes would have been such, that a letter of 
this nature would have been recorded and acted upon. So I dont think it would be fair to 
conclude that Zurich did something wrong in not acting upon the letter Mr G says he sent on 
14 October 1996.
The second letter that Mr G says he sent  and was received by Zurich  was sent around a 
week later. It refers to a phone call that had taken place earlier that day. But it doesnt make 
any reference to the earlier letter and change of address. I dont say that because I think it 
should have done, but merely note the sequence of the communication between Mr G and 
Zurich. And the letter concludes by Mr G saying he will be back in touch with Zurich once his 
future prospects are clarified.
I dont think the second letter gave any indication to Zurich that it should treat the address 
that Mr G wrote from as a permanent change. His letter implied that he was expecting further 
changes in his circumstances  and so I would think it reasonable that Zurich might have 
concluded that those future changes might also include a change of address. I dont think 
there was anything in that letter that might have led Zurich to consider that the address Mr G 
wrote from was anything other than temporary. And I think that conclusion might have been 
further reinforced by the fact that the letter Mr G sent was signed on his behalf  it was 
signed p.p. suggesting Mr G wasnt present at that address when the letter was sent.
Over the next eight years Zurich sent annual statements to Mr Gs address in the 
Channel Islands. None of those letters were returned to Zurich as having been undelivered. 
So I dont think that Zurich had any reason to conclude, at that time, that Mr G wasnt still 
resident at his original address. It was only in 2004, when it received an undelivered letter that Zurich would have reasonably become aware that the address it held for Mr G was no 
longer current.
Mr G has said that, at that time, Zurich should have attempted to contact him through the 
address hed used in 1996. But I cannot agree that would have been a reasonable approach. 
As I explained earlier it wouldnt have been unreasonable for Zurich to have considered the 
new address to be temporary. And it had been almost ten years since it had written to Mr G 
at that address. I think Zurich might have concluded that there was a real risk of fraudulent 
activity had it sent a speculative letter seeking contact details to that address.
Ultimately it was Mr Gs responsibility to ensure that Zurich was aware of his correct contact 
address. Whilst I entirely accept that is exactly what Mr G said he did in October 1996, 
I think there might reasonably be more responsibility to follow that letter up in the following 
years when he received no further communication from Zurich. Had he done so, Zurich 
might have been made aware of the missing letter advising of the change of address.
So on balance I dont consider that Zurich has done anything wrong here. It is unfortunate 
that the letter Mr G says he sent in early October 1996 failed to reach the business. But 
unaware of that letter I cannot see that Zurich had any other reason to alter the 
correspondence address for Mr G.
Over the years, Mr Gs pension savings have been eroded by the application of charges. 
Given the time that has elapsed, I havent seen the original documentation that would have 
explained those charges when Mr G first took out the pension plan. But Zurich has told us 
that they were in the form of a policy fee that resulted in a fixed monthly charge (reviewed 
annually) plus a Capital Levy charge based on the value of the units purchased in the first 
year. I havent seen anything that makes me think the charges that Zurich applied were 
unfair or contrary to the terms of the policy that Mr G took out.
I entirely understand Mr Gs disappointment that his relatively modest pension savings have 
been reduced to zero by the application of the charges. And I agree with him that, had he 
been in receipt of the annual statements, he might have acted sooner to protect some of the 
value of his pension savings. But I dont think it was Zurichs fault that those statements were 
not made available to him. So I dont think Zurich needs to do anything in relation to the 
complaint.
The final area that I think I should mention in this decision is what happened when Mr G first 
stopped making his contributions. I understand that at that time he asked Zurich for 
information about the value of his pension plan, and whether he could transfer his pension 
savings to another provider. At that time Zurich told Mr G that his pension savings had a 
value of £1,177.67, but a transfer value of just £480.65.
Mr Gs pension savings were invested into a with-profits fund. It is common for funds of this 
nature to apply penalties on withdrawal or transfer, particularly in the early years of an 
investment, or at times of market volatility. A pension plan is intended as a long-term 
investment, so it wouldnt be common for investments to be transferred so soon after they 
had been opened. So Im not surprised at the difference between the nominal and transfer 
values. I have no reason to think that the information Zurich gave to Mr G at that time was 
incorrect.
So, in summary, I havent seen anything to make me think that Zurich has treated Mr G 
unfairly, either in the correspondence address that it recorded and used for him, or in the 
application of charges to his pension plan. I dont think the complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman