DRN-4114416
The complaint
Mrs R complains about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) decision to decline her claim and void her 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Rs home was broken into, and a number of valuable items were stolen. She reported 
this to QIC who repaired a door and also arranged for an agent to value Mrs Rs valuables. 
QIC then contacted Mrs R and explained theyd decided to void her policy on the basis     
Mrs R hadnt provided accurate information about the value of her jewellery. They said, had 
they been made aware of the actual value, they wouldnt have offered a policy. So they 
decided to cancel the policy from its start date and treat it as though it never existed. And 
because of this, they said theres no cover under the policy for Mrs Rs property or any of the 
contents. Mrs R complained about QICs decision as she felt their decision to void her policy 
was unfair. She accepted shed underinsured her jewellery but felt QIC should at least pay 
the £10,000 limit of cover she had in place. QIC responded and explained the questions they 
asked about the value of Mrs Rs valuables were clear and, had they been answered 
accurately, they wouldnt have offered a policy as it would fall outside of their underwriting 
acceptance criteria  so they wouldnt cover the claim. They explained, while they intend to 
void the policy, theyll issue a refund of the premium paid.   
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs R. He thought QIC hadnt acted unfairly in voiding 
the policy and agreed they should refund the premium. He also recommended QIC refund 
the £200 excess paid by Mrs R. QIC agreed but Mrs R disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mrs R will be disappointed by 
this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
My starting point is Mrs Rs home insurance policy, which sets out the terms and conditions. 
Under a section headed Providing accurate and complete information it says a copy of the 
questions and answers that Mrs R gave QIC, when taking out the policy, is available for   
Mrs R to view and You must check this information carefully and let us know immediately if 
any of the information you have given us is incorrect. 
It goes further to say, when taking out the policy, You must take reasonable care to give 
accurate and complete answers to all questions we ask and make sure that all information 
you give us is true and correct. The terms and conditions then describe what action QIC is 
able to take if they find the information Mrs R has given isnt correct  and this includes 
cancelling the policy, refuse to pay a claim and treat the policy as though it never existed. 
In this case, the dispute relates to QICs decision to void the policy on the basis that Mrs R 
didnt provide an accurate valuation for her valuables  which they then later discovered 
were valued at a sum which exceeded their underwriting criteria. So, the first point Ive 
considered is what question did QIC ask. The information shows Mrs R first took out the 
policy in 2019 using a price comparison website. This provided a description of what 
valuable items need to be declared. It asked how much it would cost for Mrs R to replace her 
valuable contents items worth less than a specified limit and whether she would like to insure 
any items worth more than the specified limit. Mrs R was then offered a policy by QIC and 
she was given the opportunity to amend any of the answers shed given. Two of the 
questions relate to valuables in the property. One question asked, Is £10,000 enough to 
replace all your valuable contents items (each worth £2,000 or less) inside your home?   
Mrs R answered this as Yes. The other question asked, Do you have any valuables or 
personal items worth over £2,000 each (not including bicycles)? Mrs R has answered this 
as No.   
The theft occurred in the policy year 2021 to 2022, so Ive looked at the renewal information 
sent to Mrs R. This said Our renewal decision is based on your request for cover and what 
you have told us about your home. This information is recorded in your questions and 
answers, which can be found in your online account. Please take a moment to review this 
document along with your policy scheduleas you need to let us know if anything is 
incorrect. A Questions and Answers document was sent setting out the details from the 
previous year. This listed the same two questions mentioned above, with the same answer 
provided by Mrs R. The policy schedule sets out the cover limits and notes a limit of £10,000 
for Total unspecified valuable items inside the home  each worth £2,000 or less. QIC say, 
at renewal, had Mrs R answered No to the question about whether £10,000 was sufficient 
cover for her valuables  as they believe she shouldve done  then they wouldnt have 
provided cover.
The terms and conditions defines valuables as Articles made from or containing 
gold,jewellery It goes further to say The value of some of your personal belongings 
and valuables is likely to vary over time. We recommend that you review the valuation of any 
specific items regularly (at least every two years) and get professional advice if necessary. 
Please let us know if the value of any of these items changes, otherwise you may find 
yourself overinsured or underinsured. It goes further to say, It is your responsibility to make 
sure that, at all times, the contents sum insured reflects the full value of the property insured. 
This is how much it would currently cost to replace each item as new So, I think the 
questions QIC asked were clear and also set out what they wanted to know  and how to 
ensure the information would be accurate.   
 
The next point Ive considered is whether Mrs Rs answer was reasonable. As part of the 
claim process, Mrs R sent QIC a list of all items of jewellery stolen. This amounted to 
significantly more than £10,000. QIC then instructed an agent to prepare a report regarding 
the stolen valuables and they arrived at a total valuation for all items worth over £2,000 and 
all items worth £2,000 and under. QIC then declined the claim and voided the policy as the 
total value of jewellery items worth under £2,000 each differed significantly from the £10,000 
that Mrs R confirmed was an adequate level of cover when renewing her policy. And, the 
total value of jewellery items which exceeded £2,000 each was also higher than the limit set 
by QICs underwriting criteria.  
Theres no dispute Mrs R didnt value her jewellery items worth less than £2,000 each, and 
she didnt disclose to QIC that £10,000 wasnt enough to replace these valuables. Mrs R 
says she read the policy and noticed shes insured for £10,000 for personal items and 
accepts this was an oversight on her part for not understanding the value of her jewellery. 
She says she interpreted the question as, is £10,000 enough to cover her items? Which is 
why she answered Yes. Mrs R says most of her jewellery was either bought for her as presents or she inherited it. She says she never really thought about things increasing in 
value and had no idea of their current value. I acknowledge Mrs Rs points, but the terms 
and conditions did make her aware that the price of items of jewellery can vary over time  
and thats why she should get those items valued regularly. At the point the theft occurred, 
Mrs R had the policy for more than two years so, in line with the terms and conditions, she 
was required to carry out a valuation, using an expert if necessary. And I believe its more 
likely than not this wouldve provided, not only a more accurate valuation, but one which 
wouldve exceeded £10,000. So, taking this into account, I dont think Mrs Rs answer was 
reasonable.   
The next point Ive considered is what impact the answer had on QIC in order to decide what 
action they can fairly take. QIC have provided their underwriting acceptance criteria. Im 
afraid I cant share this with Mrs R because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it 
carefully. And, Im satisfied, had Mrs R provided an accurate valuation for her jewellery worth 
over £2,000 and £2,000 and under, QIC wouldve declined to offer a policy. So, I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly in voiding the policy.  
I acknowledge Mrs R says QIC repaired the glass to her door, yet theyre claiming they cant 
provide cover for the remainder of her claim. QIC say the reason they covered this repair 
was to ensure Mrs Rs property was safe and secure. They say, at this point, they werent 
aware, and they had no indication, the policy wasnt valid. They say, following the voidance 
of the policy, they took the decision to not recover these costs. I think QIC acted fairly in 
ensuring Mrs Rs property was safe and secure and handling this prior to determining cover 
for the remainder of Mrs Rs claim. 
I can see Mrs R has requested whether QIC are able to cover at least the £10,000 limit 
which her policy allows. I acknowledge Mrs Rs reasons for why she feels this would be 
reasonable but Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R as I cant fairly ask QIC to cover this. I say this 
because the information provided by QIC shows they wouldnt have offered Mrs R a policy  
and this is why theyve voided it. Given that the policy has been cancelled from the start  
and therefore as though it never existed  its not unreasonable for QIC to decline to pay the 
£10,000 limit. In light of the voidance though, I think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for QIC to refund the premium and excess to Mrs R.  
I am sorry to hear about the impact the theft had on Mrs R, and I do acknowledge she was 
left very upset with QICs decision. I wish to reassure Mrs R that I have carefully considered 
the points she has raised, and I acknowledge she says she was open and honest in relation 
to the claim and acted in good faith when taking out the insurance. I know my decision will 
be disappointing for Mrs R but I cant say QIC have acted unfairly in taking the action they 
have given that the evidence shows, had they been made aware of the total valuation of the 
jewellery, they wouldnt have offered Mrs R a policy. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that QIC havent acted unfairly in voiding Mrs Rs policy and declining her 
claim. But, given the voidance, they should refund the premium paid as well as the excess, if 
they havent done so already. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. QIC Europe Ltd must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman