DRN-2426963
The complaint
Miss P complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) terminated and defaulted two 
loans despite successfully applying for a deferment.   
What happened
Miss P had two student loans taken out via the Student Loans Company (SLC) that were 
administered by Erudio. In February 2019 a new deferment application was set up with SLC. 
In April 2019 Miss Ps existing deferment ended and payments for her loans became due. 
Miss P has told us that she experienced problems submitting her tax return which meant she 
wasnt sent the document required from HMRC to complete the deferment application. 
In April 2019 another deferment application was sent to Miss P. On 21 May 2019 Erudio 
says it sent Miss P a notice of sums in arrears letter because no payments were being made 
and no deferment was in place. Erudio says another arrears letter was sent at the beginning 
of June 2019. 
On 20 June 2019 Miss P contacted Erudio to say she was having problems obtaining her 
HMRC documents. Another deferment application was sent to Miss P by SLC in August 
2019. 
On 21 September 2019 Erudio sent Miss P a notice of default advising that if no payments 
were made by 20 October 2019 the account could be terminated. Miss P spoke with Erudio 
on 21 October 2019 and was advised to send three months bank statements to SLC in 
support of her deferment request. The account remained open on Erudios systems at this 
time. 
Miss P was able to obtain the necessary document from HMRC and sent it, along with a 
deferment application, to SLC. The deferment was approved on 31 October 2019 but Eruido 
terminated the loans on the same day and has since reported adverse information to the 
credit reference agencies. 
Miss P complained and Erudio responded on 7 January 2020. Erudio apologised for giving 
Miss P incorrect information when she called on 21 October 2019 and sent her a cheque for 
£50. But Erudio said the decision to terminate was correct because Miss P hadnt made 
payments or agreed a plan. Eruido advised that as the loans had been terminated Miss P no 
longer qualified for deferment.
Miss P referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Erudios decision to terminate and default the loans was unfair and asked it to 
reinstate them, apply the deferment and remove three months arrears in line with the 
process. The investigator said that if Erudio was no longer able to reinstate the loans it 
should make arrangements for the debt to be treated as if the loans had been reinstated and 
honour the original terms. 
The investigator recently added that they thought Erudio should remove any negative 
information reported on Miss Ps credit file from 31 October 2019 onwards. 
Erudio didnt accept and said the loans couldnt be placed on hold while Miss P gathered 
information. Erudio said the onus was on Miss P to defer or pay the loan and that she should 
have agreed a payment plan. Erudio said the correct default process was followed and that it 
had acted in line with industry guidance when terminating the account. As Erudio didnt 
accept the investigators view, Miss Ps case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has explained that she was caught in a difficult position as information she needed 
from HMRC was significantly delayed. Miss P has told us that she sent the necessary 
documents and deferment application to SLC on 30 October 2019, the first day the 
information was available. And on 31 October 2019, SLC approved Miss Ps deferment 
request. Whilst I can see the deferment period ended in April 2019, from the information Ive 
seen, Im satisfied Miss P sent the required evidence to SLC at the earliest possible point. 
Erudio responded to the investigators view and said that, under the terms, the onus was on 
Miss P to either make her payments of defer. Erudio said if Miss P wasnt able to afford 
repayments, she should have arranged a payment plan but none was in place. 
I understand Eruidos point and can see the terms say it can cancel a loan if repayments 
arent made. But, as a service, we consider cases on a fair and reasonable basis. And I think 
there were circumstances beyond Miss Ps control in this case that meant is wasnt fair for 
Erudio to terminate Miss Ps loan accounts in the way that it did. 
Erudio says Miss P failed to update it and that a notice of default was sent requiring payment 
by 20 October 2019. I can see Miss P discussed her accounts with Erudio on 21 October 
2019 and that, at that point, they hadnt been terminated. Erudios case file shows that it 
didnt take the step of requesting termination of Miss Ps accounts until 31 October 2019. 
That was the day after the SLC received Miss Ps deferment application and the same day it 
was approved. Whilst I can see the deferment application was overdue, it was ultimately 
approved by SLC. I think the fairest way to resolve Miss Ps complaint, is to reinstate the 
loans and apply the deferment to Miss Ps account. 
As I think Miss Ps deferment application was made late due to issues that were outside of 
her control, I dont think it would be fair for Erudio to continue reporting negative information 
on Miss Ps credit file after it was approved. In line with the investigators comments, I think 
the fairest approach is for Erudio to remove any negative information it has reported since 31 
October 2019, including the termination and default of Miss Ps loan accounts. 
Having considered everything that both Miss P and Erudio have said and provided, I agree 
with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
To resolve Miss Ps complaint, Erudio should: - Reinstate Miss Ps terminated loans
- Apply the deferment as agreed by SLC on 31 October 2019
- Remove three months of arrears in line with the deferment guidelines
- If, for any reason the above is not possible, Erudio should make arrangements for the 
debts to be treated as if the loans have been reinstated  including honouring the 
original terms and conditions (which may include writing off the loans)
- Remove any negative information reported on Miss Ps credit file from 31 October 
2019. This should include information relating to the termination and default of the 
loan account. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to settle 
as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman