DRN-3455530
The complaint
Mr M complains Apollo Pension & Investment Advisers (Apollo) gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer his two personal pension plans (PPP) into a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) and to then invest in unregulated investments. 
What happened
Mr M had an ongoing professional relationship with Apollo, which was a business authorised 
and regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) to provide, amongst other things, 
pension reviews and transfer advice. In April 2012, Mr M met with a representative of Apollo 
[who Ill refer to as X] to discuss his pension provision.
At the time of the meeting, Mr M had two PPPs, with transfer values of approximately 
£135,000 and £105,000. Apollo recorded that Mr M was uncertain about the performance of 
the conventional funds available to him through his PPPs and wished to consider other types 
of investment opportunities. 
On 18 April 2012, X, on behalf of Apollo, recommended to Mr M that he open a SIPP, and 
transfer the value of his two PPPs into it. He also recommended that Mr Ms business should 
make monthly contributions of £1,000 into the SIPP. No recommendation regarding the 
underlying investments was given at this time.
X was also the owner of a different business, New Alternative Investments Ltd (NAI), which 
was not regulated by the FSA to provide financial or pensions advice.
On 18 June 2012, X, on behalf of Apollo, recommended Mr M invest £33,000 in an 
unregulated structured product, Investec FTSE100 Geared Returns Plan 34 (Investec). At 
the same time X arranged for Mr M to invest £125,000 into an investment based on the 
construction of a student housing block, Lomaxfind Ltd (Lomax), in Stoke. Both these 
investments were held within his new SIPP.
On 30 January 2013 Mr M invested a further £100,000 into a loan note for a construction 
project in Germany, Dolphin Capital (Dolphin), and this was again held within his SIPP.
Both Dolphin and Investec generated a profit at the end of their five-year terms of £93,800 
and £27,225 respectively. But Lomax went into administration in May 2017 and has since 
been liquidated. To date Mr M has not received any of his initial £125,000 from the Lomax 
investment back.
In July 2019, X (on behalf of Apollo) wrote to Mr M offering to undertake a review of his 
retirement arrangements, and specifically the investments it had placed for him in Lomax 
and Dolphin, and the suitability of that advice. But Mr M declined a review.
Later in 2019, Mr M was in communication with Apollo about the failed Lomax investment 
and asked X how he could approach the Financial Ombudsman Service to complain. X 
explained the process and said that Apollo had eight weeks to investigate. But it seems 
there was no further information provided or any final response from Apollo to his complaint. 
So, in September 2020, Mr M complained to our service about the suitability of the Lomax 
investment.
Our Investigator considered the advice to transfer into the SIPP and the subsequent 
investment advice, and upheld Mr Ms complaint. She thought that Apollo was unable to 
properly advise Mr M to transfer his PPPs into a SIPP without giving due consideration, at 
the time of the advice, to the proposed underlying investments. And she thought that Apollo, 
as Mr Ms adviser, had a duty of care to him to make sure the investments held within the 
SIPP were suitable and in line with his attitude to risk (ATR) and capacity for loss. And 
because Apollo and NAI were in effect the same person (X), it was clear Apollo was aware 
of the high risk and unregulated investments that were being made within Mr Ms SIPP. She 
thought that, overall, the investments were unsuitable as they didnt reflect Mr Ms ATR and 
capacity for loss.
To put things right our Investigator thought that Apollo should compare each of the 
investments performance against a benchmark, and any losses or gains identified should be 
combined to identify if there had been any loss overall. And she set out how she thought any 
loss identified should be paid to Mr M.
Apollo didnt agree with the Investigators assessment. It said, in summary:
Mr M was fully aware of the risks associated with each of the investments.
Given the passage of time it was unlikely Mr M would remember much about any of 
the investments and it was unsafe for the Investigator to base her findings on his 
memories.
At the time of the advice, investors had been reluctant to invest in equities due to the 
recent and earlier turbulence across the markets.
The investigators suggestion of the use of an index tracker was inappropriate.
The question of suitability only came up due to one of the funds failing, and this didnt 
take into account the two funds which met maturity.
Apollo only advised Mr M to invest in Investec. Apollo didnt advise on Dolphin or 
Lomax.
NAI didnt advise Mr M to invest in Dolphin or Lomax as it was only an agent 
providing the investment brochures. It did not offer advice on the products.
The brochures provided made it clear what the investment was. The risks were 
clearly made out to Mr M, who was an experienced and longstanding company 
director, and he made the informed decision to invest his money. This was a decision 
he clearly felt at ease with, knowing the risks involved.
Mr M did have the capacity for loss at the time of the investment as he considered his 
business, of which he held a 50% share, to be his true pension.
In 2012 there was no requirement for investors to be classified as experienced or 
sophisticated in order to have non-mainstream investments promoted to them. 
In upholding the complaint, the Investigator had based her decision on a subjective 
and sympathetic viewpoint whilst disregarding the numerous factual warnings given, 
and oversimplifying the experience and reasonable expectations of both the adviser 
and the client.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr M has only complained to our Service about the Lomax investment, our 
Investigator looked at the circumstances of the transfer and all the investments as a whole. 
Neither Apollo nor Mr M have disagreed with this approach, but for completeness I must say 
I agree with the Investigator in this regard. I think it more likely than not that the Lomax 
investment was one part of an overall investment strategy, which initially commenced with 
the transfer of his two PPPs into the SIPP. So, it is right that the suitability of the entire 
investment strategy is considered under our Services inquisitorial remit.
When assessing the suitability of the advice given to Mr M by Apollo, I have to consider it in 
light of the information available when the advice was given, and not by using hindsight. Ive 
also looked at it in the context of the rules and guidance in existence at the time. 
Within the regulators handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FSAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Apollo advised Mr M were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance was to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Apollo, took reasonable steps to provide advice that was suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure they werent inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objectives and risk profile. 
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I consider when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding the 
consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; their 
financial situation; and their investment objectives.
The advice to switch
When considering a case where someone has switched their pension funds, the consumers 
circumstances and the reasons for the switch at the time must be considered. And in order 
to make the advice to switch suitable, the switch would need to be in the persons best 
interests.
In 2009 the FSA published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It 
highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed on: 
Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason? 
Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early. 
Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
ATR and personal circumstances? 
Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place. 
So, when taking everything into account, there needed to be compelling reasons why it was in Mr Ms best interests to switch at the point he did. And Im not satisfied there were.
I dont think Apollos recommendation letter gave any meaningful comparison between the 
growth, or potential growth that he could expect upon transfer, with what he could achieve 
with his PPPs if he reinvested without transferring. In the absence of any advice regarding 
the investment strategy, I dont see how any comparison of investment growth or charges 
could have been completed as it ought to have been. And I cant see that Mr M was unhappy 
with the returns hed already achieved with his current providers. Instead, I think the 
evidence available shows Mr M achieved a good return on his existing investments. The 
following is from the switch recommendation letter dated 18 April 2012: 
You have pension benefits with Legal & General and Aviva. Legal & General is a personal 
pension plan with access to a wide range of property, equity and bond funds. The current 
value and transfer value is a little over £135,000. At present this is a cash deposit fund. 
Previously you were invested into a range of funds that all [sic] different risk ratings. After 
having made a good return you switched into safety to lock in your gains. The problem is in 
choosing funds and investments that will continue to give you good growth. The main driver 
of any retirement benefit is not so much how much you have in your pot now, but how well or 
not it will grow in the future.
Apollo then went on to describe the type and value of the other PPP Mr M held with Aviva. It 
explained that as it was now worth more than its guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) value, 
Mr M wouldnt be disadvantaged by transferring this plan to another provider. Apollo has, in 
its recommendation letter, given some projections of the value of an annuity that Mr M may 
have been able to purchase if he took the benefits from this pension, and has made some 
assumptions in order to estimate these. But Ive not seen anything other than estimations. 
Given the possibility of there being a potentially valuable GMP attached to this pension, in 
order for Mr M to be able to make an informed choice, Apollo should have gone further in its 
advice and included firm projections, including from other providers. 
Other than a generic reference to Mr M being less enamoured by investing into 
conventional funds, there was nothing which would enable Mr M to compare what he had 
with what was being advised, so I cant see how he was able to make an informed decision. I 
also dont accept this comment provides sufficient reasoning to support a switch.
And in January 2013 the FSA issued an alert outlining its specific stance on advice provided 
about SIPPs. This wasnt new guidance, and although it was issued after Apollo advised 
Mr M to open the SIPP, it was the regulator re-stating its position as a consequence of 
increasing concerns about what was being seen at the time. So it was relevant to the advice 
Apollo gave to Mr M and ought to have informed their approach:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a 
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating. 
if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated 
elements.
Contrary to the above, Apollos letter of 18 April 2012 only recommended Mr M open a SIPP and transfer his PPPs into it. Apollo said:
There is no point in discussing specific investments at the moment until the funds have 
arrived. We will need to meet again to discuss them further and I will write to confirm what 
you have agreed to proceed with.
So, I dont think Apollo properly assessed the suitability of the transfer of Mr Ms two PPPs 
into the SIPP because there was no comparison made between his current and proposed 
arrangement. I also think Apollo didnt follow the regulators guidance about taking into 
account the proposed investments, which included unregulated investments. And, for the 
reasons explained above, I think Apollo had a good sense of what type of investments were 
going to be promoted to Mr M by NAI. 
Im not persuaded there was any need for a SIPP in any event. If Mr M was unhappy with 
how his pension funds were currently invested, the starting point ought to have been for 
Apollo to investigate and understand the funds available to Mr M with his existing providers.  
Im satisfied that had Apollo sufficiently understood and properly advised Mr M on the wide 
range of property, equity and bond funds which it acknowledged were already available, 
Mr M wouldve remained in his two PPPs, and invested in funds suitable for his ATR. This 
would have avoided the charges and fees associated with the SIPP and transfers
Who was responsible for the purchase of the investments?
Apollo has said that it only advised Mr M to invest in Investec. It has stressed it did not 
advise Mr M to invest in Lomax or Dolphin. But whether there was a formal advice process 
or not, Im satisfied that Apollo was responsible for the investment choices Mr M made and is 
responsible for any consequential loss. Ill explain why.
It is clear that Mr M and Apollo had a longstanding professional relationship. So, I think it is a 
reasonable assumption that Mr M trusted the advice Apollo (and in particular X) gave him 
due to this longstanding, and from what I can see, successful relationship. In any event, he 
was entitled to rely on it. In advising Mr M to transfer into the SIPP I think it is clear that X 
intended to advise him further and Mr M understood this advice would follow, once the SIPP 
was established. And I think the SIPP was established with the direct purpose and intention 
to invest in unregulated products. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive considered the relationship X had with NAI. X owned NAI, 
and it was NAI who it is said provided the information to Mr M about Lomax, about which 
Apollo says it did not advise. But I dont accept this was a true separation. The adviser for 
Apollo and representative of NAI are the same person, and the purchases of Investec and 
Lomax were made at the same time, on 18 June 2012, by the same person, X. Just because 
X has since purported to represent two different businesses doesnt mean Apollo, who were 
Mr Ms professional advisers, can distance itself from its responsibilities under COBS 2.1.1R 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
Apollo has said that it wrote to Mr M to inform him of a potential conflict of interest in X acting 
as his Independent Financial Adviser with Apollo, and Xs ownership of NAI and its 
promotion of investment opportunities. But this letter was dated 22 June 2012, which is after 
the purchase of Investec and Lomax was arranged by X. So Im satisfied there is no 
distinction between the two purchases arranged and carried out by X, which occurred at the 
same time. 
And this also goes for the purchase of the Dolphin loan note made in January 2013. Apollo 
hasnt provided any recommendation document for this either as it says it wasnt responsible 
for it. But as Ive said above, NAI was X, and X was Mr Ms financial adviser. I do not see how these two roles can be fairly differentiated here. Any information provided by X to Mr M 
would likely be trusted given their longstanding professional relationship. It is clear the 
Dolphin investment only came about as a result of Mr Ms relationship with Apollo, and whilst 
I accept X introduced it to him, Im satisfied Mr M would have reasonably understood this to 
be advice to invest from his regulated adviser. I dont think Mr M wouldve invested in 
Dolphin had it not been introduced by his financial adviser, X. 
Im further supported in my conclusion Apollo ought to be understood as ultimately 
responsible for advising Mr M, and for Mr M to have understood this at the time when it 
came to investing in Lomax and Dolphin, by the letter Apollo wrote to him, signed by X, on 
19 July 2019. This letter opened with the following paragraph:
From time to time we review certain clients retirement arrangements, outside of the normal 
routine servicing requirements we undertake for you. This is standard procedure for any 
financial adviser. This allows us to reflect on what actions, if any, we may need to consider, 
to ensure we have acted in your best interests.
Apollo then described the Lomax and Dolphin investments, and went on to say:
At the time you invested, the regulatory guidelines allowed investors access to these non-
standard investments. Any kind of investment that could be accepted by a SIPP provider 
should be considered suitable, understood by the investor, and meet your investment 
objectives. However, fast forward to today, these non-standard investments are only 
accessible to investors categorised by the FCA as either high net worth, sophisticated or 
professional investors.
In view of this, I am contacting you to explore if you would like me to conduct a review of all 
the investments we have placed for you, and the suitability of that advice.
This last paragraph of the letter written by Apollo, when taking into account that the letter 
only refers to the Lomax and Dolphin investments, confirms in my view that the investments 
were only made as a result of advice, and that advice was given by Apollo. 
As a result of all the above Im satisfied that Apollo are properly to be considered the entity 
responsible for the advice given to Mr M to invest in Lomax and Dolphin, as well as Investec.
The suitability of the underlying investments
Having satisfied myself that Apollo were responsible for the advice to open a SIPP and 
transfer funds, and also the investment advice that followed, I must consider the suitability of 
this advice.
When considering the type of investments Mr M could make, Apollo, as his financial 
advisers, had a duty of care to make sure the investment advice was suited to Mr M. This 
included knowing their client, taking account of his ATR, his experience of investments and 
his capacity for loss.
All of the investments made by Mr M in Investec, Lomax and Dolphin, between April 2012 
and January 2013, were unregulated and high risk. Lomax and Dolphin were also highly 
speculative and illiquid, with little or no track record and an unclear valuation. As such they 
might reasonably have been considered to present a high risk of total loss of capital. Only 
Investec could be considered mainstream, as it was a structured product linked to the 
FTSE100. But this only made up a relatively small (less than 13%) proportion of his portfolio.
In July 2010 the FSA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to a maximum of 3% to 5% of their portfolios was considered as potentially 
suitable, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example of bad practice given by the FSA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in such investments. Contrary to what the regulator had said, 
Apollo had facilitated the position where all of Mr Ms pension arrangement, discounting the 
monthly contributions from his business, was invested across three unregulated funds. Such 
inappropriate exposure to the risk of total loss is of direct relevance to my consideration of 
suitability. 
Lomax and Dolphin were high risk investments, and Apollo doesnt dispute this, but it says 
the risks were made clear to Mr M. Ive seen the ATR questionnaire completed by Mr M. 
This is undated but I accept this was probably completed during the meeting in April 2012. In 
this the risk categories Medium/High, High and Highly Speculative were selected with one 
large circle. So it is unclear which this is meant to represent. But given the position of the 
circle I think this most likely means High.
And in the 18 April 2012 recommendation letter, Apollo has said that Mr Ms ATR could be 
described as high risk but dependent upon the specific investment opportunity. But I dont 
consider this to be the correct position to take when assessing a persons ATR. The ATR 
should be arrived at after taking into account their full circumstances and financial objectives, 
and the proposed investments should be selected to reflect this ATR. In this case it seems 
that Apollo are suggesting Mr Ms ATR could change depending on the opportunities 
available.  
But even if I were to accept that Mr Ms ATR was high at the time of the advice, I remain 
unable to say the investment strategy was suitable for him. In fact, looking at the description 
of the highest risk rating, Highly Speculative, Im satisfied that even this wouldnt have 
matched the investment strategy Mr M was placed in.
Highly Speculative - this category is for the adventurous investor who already has a 
diversified portfolio and wishes to expose a relatively small portion to high risk investment. 
Capital could be subject to partial or total loss. It includes more obscure products, many of 
which are tax driven which are only suitable for the sophisticated investor.
At the time of the investment advice his entire pension fund was sitting in cash in his SIPP, 
so there was no meaningful diversification. And as a result of the advice, Mr M invested 
100% of his pension into initially two, and then a further unregulated and high-risk fund. Up 
until the point of transfer into the SIPP hed had his two pensions invested in mainstream 
funds with an overall moderate risk profile. So the investments made within his SIPP were a 
very significant change and represented a substantive shift in approach.  And whilst Mr M 
owned his own business, Ive not seen any evidence which leads me to think he had any 
significant investment experience, and nothing which makes me think he couldve been 
classified as a sophisticated investor. 
Im not persuaded that Mr M, even if he had a high, or highly speculative ATR, had the risk 
appetite or the experience to match the investments Apollo recommended for him and 
certainly not to the proportion of the overall fund that the investments represented. And I 
dont accept hed have sufficiently understood the nature, and the associated risks, of the 
investments he entered into. Whilst I accept both the SIPP provider and Apollo set out 
various risk warnings, this alone isnt enough to make unsuitable investments become 
suitable; nor is it enough to enable Apollo to properly say Mr M knew what he was doing 
such as to remove their own responsibility and liability.  Apollo had a duty to give appropriate advice, and if necessary to advise a client if a 
proposed strategy was not advised or suitable.
I also dont think Mr M had the capacity for loss that Apollo says he had. When reaching this 
opinion Ive used the information included in the fact find document dated 11 April 2012. In 
this Mr M is described as, in summary:
Married with no dependents
In good health
A director with a 50% share in his own business
Having a monthly income of £3,666.67 and outgoings of £2,008.00
Owning an unmortgaged house valued at £500,000
Having savings of about £12,500.
There were some notes added, but the ones I consider applicable to the circumstances of 
this complaint are as follows:
[Mr M] is only looking to review his retirement arrangements with a view to boosting the 
performance of the fund value and at the same time making income withdrawals if needed 
to.
Like other investors at present he is invested in cash within his plans and is disillusioned 
with the equities and markets. He is keen to explore alternative investments that can be held 
within a pension fund.
Looking at his circumstances, I can see he owned his own house outright, and had a 50% 
share in his own business. But Ive not seen anything which would suggest this business had 
a particularly high turnover, and indeed the salary and dividends he was taking were 
relatively modest. So he may have been asset rich, but it appears he was quite cash poor. 
And whilst I accept Apollos assertion that some businesspeople regard their businesses as 
their true pension, Ive not seen anything which leads me to think Mr M thought this. In fact, 
in Apollos own 18 April 2012 letter in which it recommended the SIPP, it said:
You were keen to consider how best you could continue to build your pension fund to 
ensure future values and adequate retirement income.
This leads me to think that Mr M was relying on his pension fund, and not his business, for 
his retirement. And once he transferred his funds into the SIPP this was the only private 
pension he had. I dont think he realistically had the capacity to absorb any significant 
investment losses it may have suffered, especially given the significant risk of this happening 
that came from having 100% of his pension funds invested in unregulated schemes.
Having taken everything into account, I agree that Apollos recommendation to start a SIPP 
and switch Mr Ms PPPs into a SIPP was unsuitable. Im also satisfied that Apollos advice to 
invest Mr Ms pension provision into the Investec, Lomax and Dolphin funds was overall 
unsuitable. So Apollo is responsible for any losses to the value of Mr Ms pension plan.Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Apollo do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Apollo must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr M's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, there is a gain. Losses and gains should then be combined. If there is an 
overall loss, that is the amount of compensation payable.
Apollo should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Apollo should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Apollo is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Repay the advisers transfer fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from 
the date the fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above comparison 
shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value 
and the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Apollo deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Apollo should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Investec 
FTSE100 
Geared 
Returns 
Plan 34No longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Lomaxfind 
LtdStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Dolphin 
CapitalNo longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case. Apollo should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Apollo pays should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Apollo is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Apollo may require that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay Apollo any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Apollo will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Apollo totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Apollo Pension & Investment Advisers should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Apollo Pension & Investment Advisers should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a 
clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman