DRN-4234973
The complaint
Mrs M has a commercial buildings insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) in her 
name. She complains that it declined a claim for storm damage to one of the buildings 
covered under this policy.  
What happened
At the end of September 2022, a wall, that formed the front elevation of one of the buildings 
covered under Mrs Ms policy, partially collapsed during a storm. AXA declined the claim as 
it determined the collapse was the result of an ongoing cause. Mrs M says there had been a 
number of storms during the policy year, which was ignored by AXA. She says that damage 
had potentially been caused during these storms that wasnt immediately apparent. 
In its response to Mrs Ms complaint AXA refers to the survey she commissioned. It says this 
highlights water ingress to the collapsed wall, that had washed away mortar and rubble from 
its inner section. It says this coincides with the view of the structural engineer it appointed. 
Specifically, that the failure of the wall was the result of long-term deterioration of the fabric 
of the building rather than a storm event. 
Mrs M disagreed with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. She says although storm conditions preceded Mrs Ms loss, this 
wasnt the underlying cause of the collapsed wall. Our investigator thought the surveyor and 
structural engineer reports supported a gradual cause as the underlying reason for the 
collapse. 
Our investigator says a loss, under a storm cause, must be attributable to a one-off storm 
event, not multiple storms. She says damage caused by multiple storms will occur over time, 
not from a single event. This isnt covered as an insurable cause under Mrs Ms policy. 
Mrs M didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She 
says AXA dealt with a previous claim in 2020. It had the opportunity to highlight concerns 
with the condition of the building at this time  but didnt. She says our service has published 
a decision where we upheld a complaint involving multiple storms as the cause of a loss. 
She says the ombudsman in that case overturned the insurers decision to decline the claim.
As Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators findings the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Our investigator explained there are three questions we take into consideration when 
determining whether a claim for damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
AXA doesnt dispute that storm conditions were experienced at the time of Mrs Ms loss. It 
says the available weather data showed wind speeds up to 64mph near to where the 
damaged building is located. I cant see that its policy defines what a storm is. But these 
wind speeds are something wed reasonably consider as storm force. In this case I think its 
clear there was a storm around the time the damage occurred. So, the answer to question 
one is yes.   
Structural damage including the collapse of a wall is, I think, reasonably typical of damage 
that can result from a storm. So, Im satisfied the answer to question two is also yes. 
The final point I must be satisfied with is that the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. 
Ive read the surveyors report Mrs M obtained. Ive copied relevant excerpts from this report 
below:
View from the road of collapsed section of wall Approximate half width of outer section of 
wall collapsed away from innerCollapse localised to central section only It is not clear if the 
brickwork section had been to replace a similar type of collapse It is understood that the 
section of wall had collapsed on the 30th September 2022 during a storm. It is understood 
that both heavy rainfall and high wind had occurred during this time. Given the construction 
of the wall it is reasonable to conclude that heavy rain would have resulted in water ingress 
to the wall washing away mortar and rubble from the inner section resulting in loss of bond 
with the outer section of stone that has subsequently fallen away from the building. Given 
the layout of buildings in the area it is feasible that once that [sic] the outer section of the wall 
had been weakened by the water ingress high wind suction forces increased by the storm 
and funnelling had pulled the outer section of wall away resulting in the collapse.
Ive also read AXAs loss adjustors report. This says:
Reference to meteorological data confirms that the maximum recorded gust at the [local] 
monitoring station, 13 miles from the risk premises, was 64 mph. Whilst we accept the 
Insureds contention that damage to the wall was largely latent, we do not consider that wind 
speeds at this level would have been sufficient to result in a collapse, had the masonry been 
in good pre-incident condition. 
Also, to the right of the collapsed section, an area of brickwork is evident suggesting this is 
not the first occasion on which partial failure of the masonry has taken place. On the balance 
of probabilities, we believe that the damage is consistent with a process of gradual 
degradation of the central core of lime mortar, possibly accelerated by an ingress of 
water/frost damage, which has in turn led to a delamination of the outer skin of masonry. 
Ive read the structural engineers report that AXA commissioned. It goes into some detail 
regarding the causes of damage that were determined to have occurred over a long period of time. Ive copied the engineers final conclusion below:
On the basis of my inspection of the exterior of the subject building, and the apparent 
widespread problems associated with the external wall structures, I am of the opinion that 
the recent partial collapse resulted from long term deterioration of the building fabric. 
Although ultimate collapse was prompted by storm conditions, this exploited the inherent 
weakness of the structure rather than the failure being the result of a single extreme storm 
event. Extensive remedial works will be required to prevent continuation of such failures. 
Mrs M supplied a further report from the surveyor she commissioned. In this he responds to 
the structural engineers findings. This report contains photos taken in September 2021, prior 
to the wall collapse. The surveyors report says:
The report is written in response to [structural engineers] assessment of storm damage to 
the barn dated November 2022. The report addresses the nature of a localised collapse to a 
wall of the building. 
View of the front the elevation of building prior to recent localised collapse. No visible 
indication that the front faade in danger of either full or partial collapse Further view of the 
building taken to enable extent of distortion to be assessed. The observed distortion was 
typical for a building of this age and construction Further view of wall at time of inspection. 
Observed to be reasonably plumb and not thought to be in danger of imminent full or partial 
collapse Further view of building. Limited distortion of wall visible.
In his conclusion the surveyor says:
Our original report included recommendations for the repair and strengthening of the 
existing walls such that they would be suitable for the incorporation into the conversion to 
residential use. Bow and distortion were highlighted in our original report however the area 
that has now collapsed did not appear to be in imminent danger of such collapse. 
No internal inspection of the building has been carried out to confirm either the construction 
or condition of the roof structure or internal cross walls. Although both could have 
contributed to the bow and distortion to the wall the overall contribution towards the collapse 
is uncertain. 
Following the planning report, the following storms have occurred (Taken from Met Office 
data) without any collapses during or immediately after. Nature and classification of storms 
to be confirmed independently. 
Arwen 25th - 27th November 2021 
Burra 7th - 8th December 2021 
Dudley 16th - 17th February 2022 
Eunice 20th - 21st February 2022 
We are advised by our client that the recent collapse in October 2022 occurred during storm 
conditions when subjected to both high wind loading and heavy rainfall. In total the building 
was subject to five storms between our original report and collapse in 2022. It is possible 
that the cumulative effect of these storms resulted in the partial collapse.
Ive read all of these reports in detail. Mrs Ms surveyor highlights the effect of water ingress 
to the damaged wall - washing away mortar and rubble  resulting in a loss of bond with the 
outer section of wall, causing the collapse during the storm. AXAs loss adjustor and 
structural engineer reported a similar cause of the collapse. They concluded the effect of the 
water ingress had been gradual, and the strong winds had acted to highlight the deteriorated condition of the wall. 
Both the loss adjustor and engineer refer to evidence of earlier repairs to the building. This 
includes a now brick section of wall adjacent to where the collapse occurred. And the gable 
end where a large section of new render had been added. Photos taken from March 2009 
(within the engineers report) show the gable end to be in a deteriorated state prior to the 
addition of the render. The engineer also points to evidence of previous repairs to the rear 
wall of the building. Highlighting structural defects and evidence of repairs, which he 
describes as, coincident with the partial collapse on the SW [front] elevation.  
In his report the structural engineer describes how delamination can occur. He says this is 
what caused the partial collapse of the wall here. He comments that the stonework is widely 
degraded, which he says is, a significant factor in the historical and ongoing structural 
problems associated with this building.
I acknowledge Mrs Ms surveyors point that four named storms occurred between 
November 2021 and February 2022. He says its possible the cumulative effect of these 
storms caused the collapse. I understand the point being made. But I dont reasonably think 
that storm, as an insured cause, can be applied to multiple events over an extended period 
of time. Our services long standing approach here, is to consider whether it was the storm 
that immediately preceded the loss (in September 2022) that was the main cause of the 
damage. Based on the evidence - I dont think it was. 
The photos provided by the structural engineer show the buildings walls had been repaired 
previously, in several areas, and to a significant extent. Im persuaded by the engineers 
comments that this indicates problems with the structure of the building had been ongoing 
for some time.
The exclusion section relating to the buildings cover in Mrs Ms policy terms and conditions 
says:
This Section does not cover
Wear and Tear 
Loss, destruction or damage solely due to 
a) wear and tear, gradual deterioration or rust 
b) gradually developing defects. 
I think its clear from the expert opinion provided that the underlying cause of the damage 
was the long-term deterioration of the fabric of the building. AXAs policy terms exclude 
gradual causes, so I think it acted fairly to decline Mrs Ms claim for the reason it gave. 
Mrs M has since commissioned a report from a loss adjustor. She received this information 
in September 2023 and provided a copy to our service. Ive considered the report. A copy 
was sent to AXA to see if this changes its view of Mrs Ms claim. It didnt respond with any 
comments within the timeframe advised. 
Ive copied the loss adjustors conclusion below:
I can confirm that storm conditions prevailed on the date of collapse (64mph max gust & 
50.8mm rainfall.
The nature of damage is consistent with storm i.e., the suction effect to a localised area of 
wall only and a small defined section of collapse only not the entire wall. The Insured can 
demonstrate a proven track record of maintenance of the building and knowledge ofdefects and hence a cognisance to the absolute requirement of ongoing 
maintenance/upkeep of such buildings.
Also, the buildings and wall in question had been subject to surveys by Insurers surveyors in 
2020 and her own surveyors re planning application for conversion in in 2021. Neither 
survey raised any concerns re the structural integrity of the collapsed section of wall.
Finally, the location of the wall overlooking the highway is the most conclusive evidence that 
the collapsed section of wall was free from structural defect indicating delamination/pre 
incident wear and tear in that Highways Inspectorate Teams, the Police, neighbours would 
have immediately raised safety concerns had any defect been apparent.
Accordingly, it is my considered opinion based on the facts appertaining to this particular 
section of wall, on the night in question extreme Storm conditions prevailing (wind & rain), 
had the storm not occurred that evening the wall would not have collapsed.
Furthermore, discussions with the Insured also somewhat critically confirm the Sedgwick 
adjuster appeared convinced from the outset that the collapse was wear & tear related and 
would not engage with the Insured in respect of the overwhelming weight of evidence 
available that the wall was free from apparent defect prior to its collapse.  
Ive read the loss adjustors full report in detail. This doesnt persuade me that the underlying 
cause of the collapsed wall was the storm conditions in September 2022. The report refers 
to a record of ongoing maintenance. I acknowledge the point made. But Im more persuaded 
by the structural engineers expert view that previous repairs are evidence of earlier partial 
collapses of the buildings walls. And that extensive remedial repairs are needed to prevent 
further collapses occurring. 
The loss adjustor says AXA didnt highlight issues with the building during surveys in 2020.      
I acknowledge his comments. Mrs M also makes this point in her earlier submissions. But its 
Mrs M who is responsible for ensuring her property is maintained. AXAs terms and condition 
explain that cover isnt provided for damage resulting from gradual causes. The expert 
opinion demonstrates significant and longstanding issues with the structure of the building. 
This was the underlying cause of the collapsed wall. 
I note the loss adjustors comments that no safety concerns were raised by the police, or the 
highways inspectorate teams, or the buildings neighbours about defects with the now 
collapsed wall. I understand the point being made. But Im not persuaded that this 
demonstrates the underlying cause of the collapse was purely down to a one-off storm event 
 given the evidence to the contrary.  
Mrs Ms loss adjustor refers to AXAs loss adjustor not engaging with the overwhelming 
evidence that the wall was free from apparent defects prior to its collapse. I note his 
comments. But I more persuaded that the expert opinion points to an ongoing gradual cause 
as the reason for the collapse not a one-off storm event.   
I acknowledge Mrs Ms reference to our services guidance on storm claims. In her email she 
has provided the following excerpt, which says we might uphold the complaint if we see 
evidence that there were a number of storms over a period and we decide that the damage 
was caused by one of these.
Ive read the guidance this excerpt was taken from on our website. But this doesnt say we 
will consider the cumulative effect of multiple storms in support of there being a valid storm 
claim. A storm cause must be a one-off event that is the underlying cause of the loss 
suffered. This isnt the case here. A storm did occur  but the underlying cause of the damage was the deterioration of Mrs Ms building over a long period. 
In summary, although Im sorry Mrs Ms loss isnt covered by her policy, I dont think AXA 
treated her unfairly when declining her claim for the reasons it gave, So I cant reasonably 
ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman