DRN-3386769
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) has refused to refund payments he made to 
Toroption using his NewDay (Opus) Mastercard credit card.  Mr B says that Toroption were 
operating a scam and stole his money.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In September 2017, Mr B made two payments of £250 and £2,500 to Toroption.  He did this 
using his NewDay (Opus) Mastercard credit card.  In short, Mr B says he believed he was 
making these payments to a company called Bitcoin which he thought he had a trading 
account with.  However, he says he lost his funds and then discovered he was in fact 
dealing with Toroption  who were operating a scam.
Mr B asked NewDay to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint which he also referred to our service.
In summary, NewDay told our service, amongst other things, Mr Bs purchases were not 
made fraudulently and it believes Mr B is unhappy because he did not receive the 
return/profit he had anticipated; and then he tried to recover his money by way of a fraud 
case.
One of our investigators considered the complaint.  He thought had a chargeback been 
raised, there would have been no reasonable prospect of success through Mastercards 
chargeback scheme due to the nature of Mr Bs claim.  However, he argued that in his view, 
Mr B did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75, 
so he suggested NewDay refund Mr Bs money.
Mr B accepted the investigators findings, but NewDay did not respond. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 2 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld.  But for different reasons to those 
put forward by the investigator.  I will set out my reasons below.
For the avoidance of doubt, I am not persuaded Mr B has established a valid claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Mr B says that his contract was with a company called Bitcoin.  However, the recipient of his 
disputed payments was Toroption, rather than Bitcoin.  Mr B did not have an agreement with 
Toroption, and so the debtor-creditor-supplier chain (which is required to be intact for the 
purposes of section 75) cannot be demonstrated.  Therefore, a claim under section 75 for 
either breach of contract or misrepresentation would inevitably fail. 
However, I have considered whether NewDay should have processed the payments to 
Toroption in light of what was known about them.  
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply 
executing authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its 
predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to 
resolve is whether this particular retailer/trader was actually a fraudster. 
I am satisfied that Toroption were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce further investments from 
victims such as Mr B.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded 
this because: 
a)Prior to January 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the United 
Kingdom were required to be licensed by the UKs Gambling Commission  
whereas Toroption were not.  Nor were they regulated or licensed in any other 
jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware.  This indicates they were operating 
illegally, probably with dishonest intentions.  Legitimate firms tend to comply with 
regulatory requirements.
b)Several warnings about Toroption were placed on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  These warnings 
were placed in May and September 2017; May 2018; and September 2019.  Further, 
the FCA published a warning about Toroption on 7 March 2018  albeit this was after 
the payments concerned were made.
c)There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that Toroption were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity 
NewDay is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr B for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is because 
they were made by Mr B using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to him by NewDay.  These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr B 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr 
B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider NewDay should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the FCA and/or IOSCO.  As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in 
its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff 
within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA and/or IOSCO.  In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment 
being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer. 
In Mr Bs case, there were several warnings about Toroption placed on the IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal (as set out above)  some of these warnings were placed more than a 
month before Mr Bs payments to Toroption in September 2017.  It is not unreasonable to 
expect a large firm that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about 
payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission.  I accept that the 
warning did not specifically relate to binary-options trading; and it did not necessarily follow 
from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters.  Given the timing of 
the alert relative to Mr Bs payments, I think NewDay ought to have automatically 
blocked it; as it had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the 
warning being published and the payment being made.  NewDay had constructive if not 
actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have 
been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr B before processing all the payments 
in order to satisfy itself that all was well. 
If NewDay had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr B and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have 
explained what he was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst NewDay had no duty to 
protect Mr B from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to 
check whether the payee was registered with the UKs Gambling Commission.  It could 
have also explained its own customer experiences with merchants like Toroption in that 
customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even 
if a lay consumer ought no  about the very high risks associated with binary options including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the 
European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, 
and so forth). 
There is no evidence that NewDay intervened in the disputed payments before agreeing to 
process them, when I think it ought to have.  It was a missed opportunity to intervene.
Causation 
 
If NewDay had asked Mr B what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything 
had been done over the phone and online with the merchant.  NewDay did not need to 
know for certain whether Mr B was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for 
suspicion are enough to trigger a banks/firms obligations under the various regulations 
and principles of good practice.  I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, 
that NewDay ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the 
information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated with 
unregulated, overseas binary options.  
If NewDay had given a warning, I believe that Mr B would have paused and looked more 
closely into Toroption before proceeding.  There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling.  It seems more 
probable that Mr B would have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and 
whether or not Toroption regulated in the United Kingdom or abroad. He could have 
discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-
options/forex scams (see above).  I am also satisfied that Mr B would have had concerns 
that the payments were being made to a company other than Bitcoin.  In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning from Mr Bs credit card provider would probably have exposed 
Toroptions false pretences, causing him to stop trading and preventing the losses. 
Contributory negligence 
 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information 
in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.  
In this case, I do not think that Mr B was to blame for what happened.  That is, he did not 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  I do not think Mr B could have foreseen 
the risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam.
 
Therefore, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on 
the basis that Mr B should share blame for what happened. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr B nor NewDay have responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party have responded to my provisional findings  I see no reason to 
depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct that NewDay Ltd:
Pay Mr B all the money he lost (totalling £2,750); including any transaction fees (if 
applicable)  within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the payments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; or (ii) if 
the account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances were not paid 
in full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for the payments from the 
date Mr B reported the fraud to NewDay Ltd.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mr Bs credit card account relating to the 
payments to Toroption and/or interest on the payments, NewDay Ltd is entitled to 
repay this balance first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above. 
If NewDay Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman