DRN-3146969
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain they paid a higher rental rate than they ought to have done under
their home purchase plan when their application for a new rate wasnt processed by Al
Rayan Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M have a home purchase plan mortgage with Al Rayan Bank PLC. In
November 2019 Al Rayan invited them to switch their rental rate to a new fixed rate.
Al Rayan asked Mr M and Mrs M to complete a consent form selecting the rental rate they
preferred. At the beginning of December 2019 Mr M and Mrs M signed and returned the
consent form and chose to pay the administration fee of £199 by bank transfer.
Under the new payment plan, Mr M and Mrs Ms rate would have been either 3.39% or
3.64% with a monthly payment of around £665. But the application didnt go through and
they ended up paying a rate of 4.74% and making higher payments.
In the middle of February, Mr M asked Al Rayan why theyd paid more than expected. Al
Rayan said they hadnt selected a rate on the consent form, so they hadnt been able to
make the change. Mr M and Mrs M provided their consent and Al Rayan adjusted their
payments from March 2020.
Mr M and Mrs M wanted Al Rayan to refund the extra amounts theyd paid but Al Rayan
refused. Al Rayan said theyd told Mr M and Mrs M in an email dated 9 December 2019 that
they hadnt selected a rate, but they hadnt replied. Al Rayan said it couldnt backdate their
rate and could only process applications once they had all the right paperwork.
When Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service, they said they hadnt received the
9 December 2019 email. And they explained the additional payments theyd had to make
came at a difficult time when Mr M was furloughed due to Covid-19 and financially it was
difficult for them. Mr M and Mrs M were also unhappy with the way Al Rayan handled their
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Al Rayan had done anything wrong. Broadly, he said that since
Mr M and Mrs Ms correctly completed consent form hadnt been received, despite Al Rayan 
letting them know they hadnt selected a rate, it was reasonable for Al Rayan to charge the 
higher rental rate until their application had gone through.
Mr M and Mrs M werent happy with that outcome. So, their complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, as extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr M and Mrs M have had during the Covid-19 pandemic
and I can understand it would have been difficult and disappointing for them to find they 
were paying a higher rental rate than theyd expected at the time.
However, for the reasons Ill explain I dont intend to uphold their complaint. The parties have
provided some additional information and documents since our investigator looked into
things. And my reasons for not upholding the complaint differ in part to his. So, I am issuing
a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make final comments before I issue
my final decision.
Although Mr M feels sure he and Mrs M chose the rental rate they wanted and thinks
Al Rayan couldnt have taken the administration fee unless they had, I am satisfied from the
copy of the consent form Al Rayans provided they didnt choose a product in December
2019. I note the form makes clear that the administration fee is non-refundable and payable
before a formal offer to switch the rate is made. That explains why the fee was taken, even
though Mr M and Mrs M hadnt selected the product at the time. Their application did go
through in the end, so I think it was fair they paid the fee.
Mr M and Mrs M say they didnt get Al Rayans email of 9 December 2019 letting them know
they needed to select a product. I have no reason to doubt what they say, but it is possible
the email was overlooked or accidentally deleted by Mr M or that it went into another folder
he didnt see. Whatever happened, from the evidence Ive seen, I am satisfied Al Rayan
were sending emails to Mr Ms correct email address, so I think they sent the email. And it
was reasonable for them to try and contact Mr M and Mrs M in that way given theyd
provided them with Mr Ms email address.
Al Rayans explained they dont chase up replies to emails as their position is made clear in
their offer letters that once a customers current discounted rate expires, it reverts to Al
Rayans variable rate. But I think the situation here was different. No offer had been issued
to Mr M and Mrs M as they hadnt selected the rate they wanted. Theyd made clear they
wanted to select a rate by paying the administration fee and returning the consent form
signed. I think Al Rayan ought to have followed up on the email by sending another one or
phoning Mr M and Mrs M when they didnt get a reply.
Having said that, I dont think it made any difference in the circumstances. Al Rayan sent
Mr M and Mrs M a rent review letter on 9 January 2020. That letter shows the rate that had
taken effect from 1 January 2020 which was significantly higher than the one
Mr M and Mrs M were expecting to pay and had been paying. And it showed that the
payments for February and March would be over £800, even though Januarys payment was
lower.
I think the letter should have put Mr M and Mrs M on notice the rate change they thought
theyd agreed to hadnt gone through. Al Rayan say if Mr M and Mrs M had contacted them
before the end of January 2020, they would have applied the lower loyalty discounted 
variable rate and backdated it to 1 January 2020. I think the letter made clear the rate they
were paying was much higher than those they could have selected on the consent form.
Even if Mr M and Mrs M didnt get the December email, Id expect them to have contacted
Al Rayan when they got this letter and queried the rate. If they had, they could have resolved
things with Al Rayan then.
Al Rayan had no contact from Mr M and Mrs M until 20 February 2020. Al Rayan argue by
then they could have offered Mr M and Mrs M the current rate available on their website to
all customers. But as a gesture they offered Mr M and Mrs M a lower rate which took effect
from 1 March 2020, even though they were part way through a quarter and the loyalty
discounted rate was no longer available. I note the rate Mr M and Mrs M were offered was
lower than those they could have chosen in December 2019. I think this was fair.Mr M and Mrs M are concerned the amount they paid in March 2020 was too high. The
February offer shows that the payment due in March 2020 would be around £836 and would
go down to around £680 in April. I understand Mr M and Mrs M actually paid around £804 in
March 2020 which is in line with the offer, so I dont think Al Rayan charged them too much
then.
In summary, while I think Al Rayan should have done more to contact Mr M and Mrs M when
they didnt reply to the December 2019 email, I dont think that led to Mr M and Mrs M
missing out on the lower rate in January and February 2020. Mr M and Mrs M should have
seen from the January 2020 review letter the rate they were paying was higher than theyd
expected. And Al Rayan would have backdated the rate if Mr M and Mrs M had contacted
them before the end of January.
Since Mr M and Mrs M didnt contact Al Rayan until the middle of February, Al Rayan said
theyd arrange the new payments from March. I think that was reasonable in the
circumstances and that Al Rayan treated Mr M and Mrs M fairly by offering them a lower rate
even though it wasnt then generally available to customers.
I know Mr M and Mrs M are disappointed with how Al Rayan responded when they
complained about what had happened. Complaint handling isnt something this service has
the power to consider so I dont make any findings about that.
Bearing everything in mind, and whilst I know it will be disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M, I
dont uphold their complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Recent developments
Mr M and Mrs M were unhappy with my provisional decision. Mr M said he hadnt received 
the email from Al Rayan on 9 December 2019 and he thought he and Mrs M had selected a 
rate on the consent form. And he still felt Al Rayan had treated him and Mrs M unfairly.
Al Rayan commented that Mr M and Mrs M had benefited from a lower rate than theyd have 
been able to get if theyd selected one of the rates available in December 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr M and Mrs M hadnt selected a rate on the consent form when they returned 
it to Al Rayan. And my provisional decision didnt turn on whether or not Mr M had received 
the 9 December 2019 email from Al Rayan letting them know they hadnt made their choice 
about the rate they wanted  although I acknowledge Mr M is clear he didnt get the email. I 
said Al Rayan should have tried to contact Mr M and Mrs M when they didnt hear from them 
in reply to that email.
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I think Mr M and Mrs M should have 
contacted Al Rayan to discuss things in January 2020 when they got the rent review letter. 
And I think Al Rayan treated Mr M and Mrs M fairly in February 2020 by offering them a 
lower rate than was generally available at the time, even though they didnt backdate it. Overall, I havent seen any new information that changes my mind about the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman