DRN-3561527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc were unfair in their rejection of a property 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a home they rent out, which is insured by AXA. Unfortunately, they had a 
rat infestation, and this caused damage to the property.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their policy in the belief that it would be covered under the 
peril Impact by any aircraft or other aerial devices, vehicle or any article falling from them or 
by animals.
AXA said the claim wasnt covered and that impact meant collision, which wasnt what had 
happened. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, so brought their case to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter and agreed with AXAs interpretation of the 
cover, so the complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, they said impact more commonly meant effect, and that the effect 
of the infestation was the damage caused.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain 
why.
As above, the policy covers Impact by any aircraft or other aerial devices, vehicle or any 
article falling from them or by animals. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ss interpretation of 
the wording and I also appreciate they say many people they know would interpret it in the 
same way as them.
But I dont agree with that interpretation. In context of impact by aircraft, vehicles or articles 
falling, I think it is clear that would mean collision. And so, as the same term goes on to 
mention animals, I think it is reasonable to say impact means collision there too.
I do appreciate what Mr and Mrs S have said about dictionary definitions and FCA rules, but 
I dont think that makes a difference. Ultimately, I consider the term to be clear and I dont 
agree it is misleading when read in its entirety.
I also appreciate what Mr and Mrs S have said about collision by an animal being a very 
unusual occurrence, which only adds to the confusion. I agree that damage to a property by 
an animal colliding with it would likely be very unusual. But so would collision with an aircraft 
or, as the policy also covers, damage caused by earthquake (at least in the UK) or lightning. 
And just because its unusual, it doesnt follow that the meaning should be different.
Overall, Im satisfied AXA was reasonable in declining the claim for damage caused by rats. 
I consider the term, or variations of it, to be fairly common in property insurance contracts, 
and that had Mr and Mrs S been with another insurer the outcome would likely have been 
the same. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman