DRN-3819107
The complaint
Mr J complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted him two credit card 
accounts he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2017 Mr J entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit by way 
of a Marbles credit card account. He was given a credit limit of £250. In February 2020 he 
entered into a further agreement for credit by way of a Fluid credit card with an opening 
credit limit of £450. Each account was given two further credit limit increases.  
Mr J says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened each 
account and also failed to take into account his personal situation. 
NewDay didnt agree. It said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mr Js financial circumstances before granting him each account. 
In my provisional decision dated 21 October 2022, I explained why I didnt consider NewDay 
had acted unfairly in granting Mr J the credit on these two accounts. I set out an extract 
below:
Marbles Account
Before opening this account, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr J about his ability to repay. This included carrying out credit and 
affordability checks which showed no adverse information. And given that NewDay was 
proposing to give Mr J a relatively modest opening limit of £250 which, if used, would require 
only small monthly repayments, I dont think it was essential for it to verify his income or ask 
about his other committed expenditure, outside of the credit commitments the credit check 
would have shown. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it 
doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the checks that were completed showed that at the time of the account opening the 
agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr J. Ive seen that this included checking Mr Js 
gross income, as well as looking into Mr Js existing borrowing commitments. From this, 
NewDay could see that these appeared to have been adequately managed with no evidence 
of Mr J having got into recent financial difficulties. I say this taking into consideration that the 
one default it found had been registered 22 months previously. 
All of this suggests Mr J was likely to have been in a financially stable position at the time. 
So I dont think NewDay acted unfairly when approving the first account.
Turning to the two credit limit increases, I agree with our adjudicator that it would have been 
proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to find out more about any changes to Mr Js 
income, as well as the level of committed expenditure he had at that time. But based on the 
bank statements Ive seen prior to these increases, I think its likely Mr J had enough 
disposable income available each month at this time to make regular, sustainable 
repayments towards the card. For the second increase, Ive also seen that Mr J went 
overdrawn on his bank account once, but this was only for a brief time. I therefore dont 
consider that NewDay acted unfairly in granting Mr J each of these credit limit increases. 
Fluid Account
Before opening this account, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr J about his ability to repay. I say this because it again completed credit 
and affordability checks which showed no adverse information. NewDay also once again 
also relied on Mr Js declared income and then verified this information using statistical data. 
This included carrying out credit and affordability checks which showed no adverse 
information. Again, given that NewDay was proposing to give Mr J a slightly higher but still  
relatively modest opening limit of £450, it wasnt essential for it to verify his income or ask 
about his other committed expenditure, outside of the credit commitments the credit check 
would have shown. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it 
doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
Ive also reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that at the time of the account opening 
the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr J. Ive seen that NewDay also looked into 
Mr Js existing borrowing commitments and could see that these appeared to have been 
adequately managed with no evidence of having got into recent financial difficulties. The 
bank statements Mr J sent us for the three months before the account was opened shows 
Mr Js income as being consistent with the information NewDay relied upon. 
Having looked at the first credit limit increase for this account, in August 2020, our 
adjudicator noted that Mr J was making frequent use of gambling sites. Ive seen that Mr J 
had been making use of these sites from at least September 2019, some time before he was 
granted this credit. Whilst the amount he spent each month on gambling tended to fluctuate, 
Mr J kept his bank account in credit and appears to have been able to meet all his regular 
financial commitments. I consider that NewDay needed to carry out proportionate checks 
before increasing Mr Js credit limit  and frequent use of online gambling sites is certainly 
an indicator that he could be getting into financial difficulty. In the three months prior to being 
offered the credit limit increase, Mr J was spending an average of £400 a month on gambling 
sites. This is a significant sum, amounting to just under half of his monthly income. But from 
what Ive seen, Mr J was still able to cover his other financial commitments  including a 
monthly repayment to a pay day lender. 
Overall, I cant currently see that Mr Js use of these sites worsened to the point that there 
was a significant risk hed be getting into financial difficulty. I therefore dont consider that, 
had NewDay carried out the necessary proportionate checks, it would have found that Mr J 
would be unable to meet the payments required if his credit limit was increased. 
It follows that I currently dont consider that NewDay acted unfairly when approving either 
this or the later credit limit increase to this account. 
Finally, Mr J has told us about his poor health and. I am very sorry to hear about that. But I 
havent seen enough evidence to suggest that this is something that New Day was or ought 
to have been aware of. So it isnt something that currently affects my finding that NewDay 
hasnt acted unfairly.Mr Js representative, his daughter, has responded to my provisional decision with some 
further information, which I have considered and will comment on below. New Day hasnt 
responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr Js daughter has told us that, looking at the bank statements that were provided, it can be 
seen that she was transferring money to help pay Mr Js bills. So I have looked at the 
statements again, focusing specifically on those payments. Ive noticed that Mr J often made 
payments back to his daughter  although sometimes the sums she made to him were 
greater than the repayments. But even so, I cant say that without these Mr Js financial 
situation would have worsened to the extent that the available credit on either account was 
unaffordable. Ive also kept in mind that even if NewDay had carried out better checks that 
included Mr Js bank account, it would not have been apparent that he might be 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
Given that I havent seen any further evidence or information to consider that has caused me 
to change my provisional finding, I remain of the opinion that NewDay didnt act unfairly in 
granting Mr J this credit.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman