DRN-3859077
The complaint
Ms K has complained about the fees she was charged by ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE 
SERVICES LIMITED (Atlanta) after she cancelled her motor insurance policy and generally 
about the way it administered her policy. 
What happened
Ms K took out a motor insurance policy through Atlanta, an insurance broker. Shortly after 
the policy was taken out Atlanta got in touch with Ms K to say that though Ms K had said she 
had had no claims in the previous five years, its search showed that there were in fact three 
claims with her previous insurer C and one with another insurer. Ms K said she did not 
recall the three claims she had with C and Atlanta said she should discuss this with C and 
get back to it. 
Ms K got in touch with C and then went back to Atlanta to provide details of the three claims. 
Atlanta told Ms K that her premium would increase in light of this new information, as this 
was something that wasnt provided at the time when Ms K applied for the policy. Atlanta 
said the policy would have to be updated otherwise it would be cancelled. Ms K thought the 
new premium was too high and decided to cancel her policy.
Atlanta wrote to Ms K when the policy was cancelled to say that there was an outstanding 
charge of £55.12 which Ms K was not happy about and complained. Atlanta didnt uphold the 
complaint and said it had done nothing wrong in the way it administered the policy. Atlanta 
later told us that a £50 cancellation fee was applied as the policy was cancelled more than 
14 days after it was taken out- on day 15. 
Ms K then brought her complaint to us. She said Atlanta would not refund the £87 deposit 
she had paid when she took the policy out and was asking for a further £55.12. Ms K had 
agreed to pay for the policy in instalments through a finance company and she said she had 
been receiving letters from that company chasing her for a debt. Though these subsequently 
stopped she found it distressing while it went on. She said she wanted her £87 to be 
refunded and not to pay a cancellation fee. 
Our Investigator who considered the complaint, initially didnt think it should be upheld for the 
reason Atlanta had given. But upon receipt of further information from both parties our 
Investigator upheld the complaint and said that Atlanta should waive the £50 cancellation fee 
and also pay Ms K £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. Our Investigator 
said this was because Atlanta delayed getting back to Ms K to confirm the new higher 
premium and that had it not been for this delay Ms K would have cancelled before the 
14 day cooling off period and therefore not incurred a cancellation fee. 
Atlanta didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Among other things it said it 
didnt delay and also that its terms say that because Ms Ks policy was cancelled due to her 
providing incorrect information at the start, the £50 cancellation fee would apply regardless. 
It also said the outstanding balance of £55.12 had been calculated correctly, as per its terms 
which Ms K agreed to when purchasing the policy. 
Before I issued my decision I asked our Investigator to go back to both parties to say that 
I would be upholding the complaint and to clarify that I would be asking Atlanta to stop 
chasing Ms K for the outstanding balance of £55.12 and to pay her £44.88 compensation. 
Ms K agreed. Atlanta said it would await my decision before taking any action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it for similar reasons to those provided by our 
Investigator.
 
The parties have raised a number of points, particularly, after our Investigators views. I have 
taken all of them into consideration but in this decision, I will focus on the ones I consider to 
be the most significant.
The issues I am considering
Atlanta has provided a breakdown of the charges Ms K incurred which consist of Atlantas 
charges and also the insurance premium charged by the insurer. Ms K said that she is not 
complaining about the premium. This is not something I would have been able to consider in 
this decision in any event as this decision is against Atlanta and not the insurer. From what 
I have seen a pro-rata refund was paid back to the insurer via the finance company and from 
what Ms K has said, though she was initially receiving letters from that company chasing her 
for the outstanding premium, she is no longer receiving those. Therefore, I take it that she is 
not being chased for the premium. So what remains seems to be made up of Atlantas 
charges. If Ms K is later chased for any outstanding amount by the insurer or by a debt 
collector/credit agreement company on its behalf she will have to complain to that insurer.
I also appreciate there is some confusion as to the outstanding balance of £55.12 and 
whether this is the cancellation fee. To clarify, there is a £50 cancellation fee but the £55.12 
also consists of other charges. Our Investigator treated these as separate issues but as 
I have explained to the parties I have decided to deal with them in the same decision in order 
to resolve the matter more quickly. And I note this is something Atlanta had requested itself.
There is also some confusion as to the deposit Ms K paid at the start. She said this was £87 
but Atlanta has shown that this was £113.79 and it included a £40 administration fee for the 
policy to be set up.
Atlantas terms
Atlanta has provided its terms of business which say that a £50 charge will be applied if the 
policy is cancelled after the initial 14 days. They also say that a £50 charge will be applied if 
the cancellation is within the initial 14 days but is due to failure to validate identity or failure 
to disclose any claims. 
The events that led to the complaint
Ms K took her policy out on 4 April 2022 through a price comparison website. Atlanta 
emailed her two days later asking her to get in touch in order to clarify her previous claims 
history. 
Ms K and Atlanta spoke on 7 April and twice on 14 April in relation to Ms Ks previous 
claims. Ms K told Atlanta that she didnt remember her previous claims so Atlanta asked her 
to call one of her previous insurers, C, to go through those. Ms K spoke to C and provided 
Atlanta with a letter in relation to one of the claims which was recorded for notification only 
purposes. The letter added that as no claim was made it was later closed. In her discussions with Atlanta, Ms K also mentioned that some of the other incidents were single vehicle 
parking incidents at work which werent her fault and which she was told did not affect her no 
claims discount. 
Atlanta said, ultimately, the information provided by C confirmed the information it had come 
across. And that this meant that Ms Ks premium would increase which is what made Ms K 
decide to cancel the policy. The policy ceased on 18 April. 
The crux of Ms Ks complaint, as I understand it, is whether she should be charged the £50 
cancellation fee/ pay the £55.12 outstanding balance. Our Investigator said it was for Atlanta 
to contact Ms K and tell her what her new premium would be when Ms K sent over the 
information from C on 14 April. And that had it done so Ms K would have cancelled her 
policy immediately and this would have been within the 14 day cooling off period. She would 
therefore not have incurred the £50 fee. I agree, and I say this because Ms K did cancel her 
policy as soon as she was told what her additional premium would be. And I dont think she 
had the information necessary to make a decision on whether she wanted to cancel or not 
until she spoke to Atlanta about the recalculated premium.
Atlanta says it wanted to give Ms K time as she was disputing the information it had come 
across in relation to her previous claims, saying she didnt remember them. It also said that 
when it spoke to Ms K on 14 April it told her it would have to speak to C directly but it 
couldnt do so without Ms Ks authority. And that it had called C but it wouldnt release any of 
this information to it. Ms K later told us she did give authority to C to speak to Atlanta but as 
far as I am aware the two companies didnt speak again. Our Investigator said there was no 
longer a need for Atlanta to speak to C in any event as Ms K emailed over Cs information to 
Atlanta on the same day.  I agree and though I understand what Atlanta is saying, ultimately, 
from what I understand it was able to tell Ms K what her new premium would be without 
speaking to C. And it did this on 18 April when Ms K called Atlanta herself as she hadnt 
heard back. So I think it could have also done this on 14 April when it had the information 
from C. And if it had done that Ms K would have cancelled within the 14 day period.
Atlanta said that irrespective of when Ms K cancelled her policy, she would have still 
incurred the £50 charge because, as per its terms, her cancellation was due to her not 
providing correct information in the first place. I have considered this and I dont think it 
would be fair, in these very specific circumstances, to allow Atlanta to rely on this term. 
I have taken into consideration what Ms K said about her previous claims and the fact that 
she was told they didnt affect her no claims discount and that they were single vehicle 
incidents. And also the fact that Ms K was very quick to get back to Atlanta and liaise with C 
to get further clarification. But even if I didnt, I think an overall charge of £90 (including the 
£40 set up fee) for a policy that was only valid for 15 days is, in the circumstances, high. 
I think £40 is more reasonable.
Ms K initially said she wanted a refund of her deposit but as this would have included part of 
her premium I will not be asking Atlanta to pay this back. But I have borne in mind that it 
included the £40 set up fee which I considered above.
Our Investigator said Atlanta should also pay Ms K £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her for the delays it caused and also for the chasing Ms K had to 
do. I think this is reasonable but as I am asking Atlanta to stop chasing its £55.12 balance 
I have decided that it should pay £44.88 compensation to Ms K instead. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint and direct ATLANTA 1 
INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED to stop chasing Ms K for the outstanding balance of £55.12 and to pay her £44.88 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman