DRN-3854713
The complaint
Mr S complains about Nationwide Building Society closing his account and withholding the 
money left in it.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Nationwide. In 2020, Mr S sold a piece of jewellery on a third-
party platform site and received money for the purchase through his PayPal account. 
In December 2020, Mr S transferred the money from his PayPal account into his Nationwide 
account in three separate transactions. The transfers triggered an alert on Nationwides 
fraud prevention system, and they restricted Mr Ss account while they carried out a review. 
As part of the review, Nationwide asked Mr S for information relating to the piece of jewellery 
he sold, the transaction and where the money originated from. Mr S provided Nationwide 
with as much information and evidence as he had  but Nationwide didnt consider it 
sufficient.
Nationwide made the decision to close Mr Ss account and withhold the money in the 
account as they werent satisfied Mr S was entitled to it.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service. Through a representative, Mr S explained that the 
piece of jewellery he sold was on behalf of his aunt  and she didnt hold the original 
purchase receipts as the ring was a gift from her ex-partner. Mr S also explained the sale 
took place during the Covid-19 lockdown period and it was an expendable item to support 
the familys finances during a difficult time.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly. In summary, 
he explained that Nationwide were entitled to close the account and as the money from the 
sale actually belonged to Mr Ss aunt  rather than Mr S himself, he couldnt reasonably ask 
Nationwide to return the money to Mr S. Our investigator went on to explain that Mr Ss aunt 
couldnt complain to Nationwide directly, as in the circumstances of this complaint, she 
wouldnt be an eligible complainant as the account in question wasnt in her name.
Mr S, through his representative, remained unhappy. He accepted Nationwide were likely 
entitled to close the account but didnt agree they could hold on to the money. Mr Ss 
representative quoted legislation relating to money laundering offences.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note that Mr Ss representative has made a number of detailed and specific points 
relating to money laundering legislation and Nationwides obligations. I dont believe its 
necessary to address each and every point made in order to meet my statutory duty to 
determine this complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address 
the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered 
everything that Mr S, his representative, and Nationwide have said before reaching my 
decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Nationwide has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential.
Firstly, Nationwide are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Nationwide decided to review Mr Ss account when the 
credits received into Mr Ss account triggered an alert on their fraud prevention system. Im 
satisfied Nationwide were entitled to carry out a review based on this information and Im 
pleased they asked Mr S for evidence to support their review.
Mr S has provided Nationwide with what he believes to be sufficient evidence. He has 
explained he cant supply anything more from PayPal to show the money was from an 
account in his name  and he doesnt have original purchase receipts of the piece of 
jewellery he sold. I understand Mr S is frustrated because Nationwide dont agree the 
evidence he sent is enough. 
Its important banks and building societies complete thorough investigations to ensure 
theyre adhering to their legal and regulatory obligations. In Mr Ss case, I agree the 
evidence he supplied isnt adequate. I say that because Mr S hasnt been able to show a 
legitimate account of the sale of the jewellery, or any communication between him and the 
third-party when negotiating the sale, or anything between him and his aunt to confirm the 
direction to sell on her behalf. He also hasnt got a copy of the authentication of the 
jewellery. Ive considered Mr Ss comments about his reasons why  and while I fully 
appreciate the circumstances, I cant reasonably hold Nationwide responsible for the 
circumstances in which the jewellery was sold. I recognise it would be difficult for Mr Ss aunt 
to have a copy of the purchase, or authentication certificates, as the jewellery was a gift from 
a relationship which has since broken down. But I cant fairly agree Nationwide should 
therefore ignore the need for further necessary evidence. So, while I recognise this has left 
Mr S, and his family, in a difficult position, Nationwide have a duty to protect and they 
wouldnt be doing that if they released the money without sufficient evidence. So, I cant say 
theyve done anything wrong.
Nationwide decided to end their banking relationship with Mr S by closing his account. And 
theyre entitled to do that under the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate 
Nationwide are still holding on to the remaining money, and Mr S doesnt think they should 
be. However, Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, Nationwide are taking the 
appropriate action as there isnt any sufficient evidence to show Mr S is entitled to it  and by 
his own version of events, the money doesnt belong to him so it wouldnt be appropriate for 
Nationwide to give him access to the money.
Overall, I appreciate Mr S feels he has lost out on a lot of money and I understand this has 
left him in a difficult position by not having the jewellery or the money associated with it to 
return to his aunt. But, based on the circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly say 
Nationwide have done anything wrong. Therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything to 
put things right for Mr S.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman