DRN-3857848
The complaint
Miss B and Mr M complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to contact 
them, despite having been asked to do so. As a result, they say they were unable to amend 
their decreasing term assurance policy to the level of cover they required.
To put matters right they want Aviva to refund the premiums they paid from October 2020, to 
the date they cancelled the policy in August 2022.
What happened
Miss B and Mr M held a decreasing term assurance policy with Aviva. I understand that the 
policy was taken out in connection with a repayment mortgage. In October and November 
2020 Miss B and Mr M tried to speak to Aviva as they were moving home and wanted to 
amend the level of cover. Miss B and Mr M say they couldnt reach Aviva by phone.
In early January 2021, they emailed Aviva to notify it of their change of address and asked it 
to contact them about amending the level of cover provided by their term assurance policy. 
For whatever reason Aviva failed to contact Miss B and Mr M about amending the level of 
cover, but it did contact them about their change of address.
In August 2022 Miss B and Mr M complained to Aviva. They said it had failed to contact 
them to discuss amending the level of cover they held. They said they wanted Aviva to 
refund the premiums they had paid from October 2020, when they had first tried to contact 
Aviva by phone to discuss their requirements.
Aviva apologised for its poor service and paid Miss B and Mr M £50 for the trouble and upset 
it had caused. But it said it wasnt willing to back date the cancellation date of the policy to 
October 2020 and refund the premiums they had paid.
Miss B and Mr M were not satisfied with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator said he didnt think Aviva needed to refund the premiums paid from October 
2020. He said that although the sum assured was less than Miss B and Mr M required to 
cover their new mortgage, it had provided some cover in the event of a claim. He said he 
was of the view that it was Miss B and Mr Ms responsibility to ensure they had sufficient 
cover in place to meet their needs.
Miss B and Mr M were not satisfied with our investigators view. Miss B said she had tried to 
contact Aviva by both telephone and email but gave up when it didnt respond to her email 
in early January 2021. She also said that as the level of cover had not been amended there 
was a substantial difference in the level of cover needed to repay their new mortgage and 
the level of cover provided by their Aviva policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Miss B and Mr Ms position, but I cant reasonably require Aviva to 
refund the premiums they have paid since October 2020. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that the service Miss B and Mr M received from Aviva was unsatisfactory. 
What is in dispute is whether Aviva should refund the premiums Miss B and Mr M paid from 
October 2020, to the date they cancelled their policy in August 2022.
I have not been provided with anything that shows or suggests that Miss B or Mr M tried to 
contact Aviva about amending the level of cover after their email to Aviva in early January 
2021. If they were unhappy with the level of life cover they had in place, as it did not cover 
the outstanding balance on their new mortgage, it is not clear to me why they didnt try to 
contact Aviva again.  
Likewise, if they were unhappy with the level of service Aviva was providing Miss B and Mr 
M were free to have cancelled their policy with Aviva much sooner than they did  and 
arrange cover with another provider.
I appreciate Miss Bs point that the level of cover provided by the Aviva policy was 
insufficient to repay their new mortgage. But I cant reasonably require Aviva to refund the 
premiums Miss B and Mr M paid, as they continued to benefit from the cover provided by 
their policy with Aviva while they maintained the premium.
I do understand that this is not the decision Miss B and Mr M were hoping for, but I cannot 
reasonably require Aviva to refund the premiums they paid between October 2020 and 
August 2022, when the policy was cancelled. I think the £50 it has paid them for its poor 
customer service is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman