DRN-4310215
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Credit Karma UK Limited allowed a partnered company to carry 
out soft searches on his credit file.
What happened
Credit Karma updated its platform for some customers, including Mr S. An error in the 
update meant that some soft searches were added to his credit file. These soft searches 
were from a company partnered with Credit Karma, which Ill refer to as M.
Mr S initially spoke to M, then to Credit Karma. Credit Karma responded the same day, 
apologised, and explained what happened. They reassured Mr S that only he could see the 
soft searches on his credit file and it wouldnt impact him at all, and that their engineers had 
fixed the problem. They offered him £50 compensation, then later increased this to £100.
Mr S came to our service. He said when he saw the searches he was worried hed been 
hacked. He felt Credit Karma had made repeated data breaches. He wanted them to face 
wider action and for him to receive more compensation based on each breach.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained that were not the 
regulator and only look at individual complaints. They explained the soft searches wouldnt 
affect Mr S. They found Credit Karmas offer of £100 compensation to be fair. They 
suggested that Credit Karma should also help Mr S remove the soft searches if he wants, 
though they couldnt guarantee this would work as it was out of Credit Karmas control.
Mr S wanted to take things further, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that we are not a regulator. Its the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
who regulate financial businesses, and the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who 
look after data protection issues more widely. Were here to informally resolve individual 
complaints about individual situations. So it is not within my jurisdiction to consider how this 
affected other customers  just Mr S. It is also not within my jurisdiction to consider what 
wider action Credit Karma should or shouldnt take. In this complaint between Mr S and 
Credit Karma, Im just here to look at what happened between Mr S and Credit Karma.
I should also explain that when Mr S signed up with Credit Karma, he agreed to the terms 
and conditions. The terms explain that as part of their service, Credit Karma work with other 
financial services companies to check customers eligibility for products, which will involve 
soft searches being left on ones credit file. This also involves giving those partners ones 
personal data. One of those partners is M.
So Mr S did agree for Credit Karma to share his data with partners such as M, and to 
potentially have soft searches done on his credit file. Its just that these particular soft 
searches were carried out by mistake.
In terms of putting that mistake right, my first concern is that Mr S wasnt caused any 
financial impact. And Im glad to see that here, he wasnt. Only Mr S can see the soft 
searches on his credit file  his lenders or potential lenders cannot. These soft searches 
wont affect his financial standing or future applications, or really have any material effect for 
Mr S at all.
Next, Ive thought carefully about the non-financial impact this had on Mr S. He described his 
anxiety and frustration, and Im grateful to Mr S for being open and candid with us about how 
he felt here.
I do need to keep in mind that Credit Karma responded very quickly when Mr S got in touch 
with them. They swiftly apologised, fixed the underlying error, and reassured Mr S that this 
wouldnt have any effect on his credit standing. Its also worth bearing in mind that as were 
not a regulator, were not here to issue fines or to punish businesses. And we dont issue 
compensation based on a per-issue rate as Mr S suggested we should. Instead, we take into 
account the overall way things were handled and the impact this had for the customer, 
alongside our guidelines for compensation. Taking everything into account, I find Credit 
Karmas offer of £100 compensation to be fair to put things right here.
I understand that Mr S may be unhappy with his data continuing to be stored with Credit 
Karma or M. Credit Karma did offer to close Mr Ss account and delete all the data of his that 
they hold, if he wants. M will be able to do the same  though Mr S would need to get in 
touch with M directly if he wants them to do that. Credit Karma cant delete all the data that 
M holds, as Credit Karma and M are separate businesses.
I also understand that Mr S might like the soft searches to be removed. I should reiterate that 
it wont make any meaningful difference to his credit file whether the soft searches are there 
or not, since only Mr S can see them. And as our investigator explained, Credit Karma cant 
remove them as they dont own the data on his credit file.
Credit Karma does have a function to help customers raise disputes. So it seems right that 
they use this function to help Mr S dispute the searches, if he wants to dispute them. But I do 
need to be clear that Credit Karma cannot guarantee theyll be removed. M added the 
searches, and theyre stored by the credit reference agency, so its up to M and the credit 
reference agency to remove them. Credit Karma can only provide limited assistance, and if 
theyre unable to get the searches removed then Mr S would need to take things further with 
M and the credit reference agency directly. As the soft searches in question dont have any 
material effect on Mr Ss file whether theyre present or not, I will leave it up to Mr S to 
decide how much effort he wishes to expend on them.My final decision
I direct Credit Karma UK Limited to pay Mr S the £100 compensation offered, and to help 
him raise a dispute for the erroneous soft searches (if he wishes to dispute them).
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman