DRN-1972140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
arranging the upgrade of Mr Bs flight when Mrs B was repatriated home. They want 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a travel insurance policy with AXA. Mrs B became unwell on holiday and 
needed to be repatriated home. It was decided that Mrs B needed to be in business class on 
the aircraft, accompanied by a nurse. The travel arrangements were made through AXA and 
its agents. Mr B said that he paid for an upgrade for his seat (in excess of £3,000) on the 
proviso that he could be sat close to his wife during the flight; he said that this didnt happen. 
Mr B felt as a result the cost of the upgrade should be refunded by AXA. 
Mr B complained to AXA. It offered £300 compensation as it felt the service given wasnt 
good enough in terms of communication and updates. AXA said that its team had been told 
that it couldnt be guaranteed that Mr and Mrs B could sit together, but accepted Mr B hadnt 
been told this. Mr B felt that this wasnt enough, not only because of the cost of the upgrade, 
but also because it had been a stressful situation and the stress was increased by 
Mr and Mrs B not being near each other when she was so unwell and she suffered from 
anxiety. Matters werent helped by the fact that the nurse also wasnt booked to sit next to 
Mrs B, which caused the crew to have to move passengers around, some of whom werent 
keen to do so,
Mr B complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. 
She noted that it wasnt clear if AXA had considered a curtailment or hospital benefit claim. 
But she felt Mr B had shown hed only paid for the upgrade to be near Mrs B and he couldve 
checked on her to the same extent that he was permitted if he hadnt upgraded. 
The investigator pointed out AXA had accepted that it hadnt told Mr B that it had been told 
there was no guarantee hed be near Mrs B, and that the policy covered reasonable 
transport expenses home for Mr and Mrs B. She didnt think that it was reasonable to expect 
Mr B to travel in a different class to his wife, who had been and remained unwell and was a 
nervous flyer refusing to fly without him (as told to AXA at the time). 
The investigator also noted that the repatriation was delayed due to the nurses details not 
being provided to the airline and was more stressful as the nurse wasnt booked to sit next to 
Mrs B. This followed a difficult departure from the hospital as no guarantee of payment had 
been provided in time. She said AXA should pay £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by all its failings and refund the upgrade cost to Mr B (together with interest).
AXA disagreed. It said it wasnt medically necessary to upgrade Mr B to business class with 
Mrs B and the nurse, and Mr B chose to upgrade. AXA didnt think Mr and Mrs B should get 
a refund and compensation and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The investigator said if 
AXA had given Mr B the right information about the seats, he wouldnt have paid for the 
upgrade.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to AXA, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. Im going to 
focus on the repatriation of Mr and Mrs B as no complaint has been raised about any other 
possible claims that could be made under the policy.
The policy says that it covers Reasonable additional transport or accommodation
expenses incurred, up to the standard of Your original booking, if it is medically necessary 
for You to stay beyond Your scheduled return date. This includes, with the prior authorisation 
of AXA Assistance, reasonable additional transport or accommodation expenses for a friend 
or Close Relative to remain with You or travel to You from Your Home Area or escort You 
and additional travel expenses to return You to Your Home if You are unable to use the 
return ticket.
Its clear that the reference to medically necessary only refers to staying beyond the 
booked return date; this isnt relevant to Mr and Mrs Bs case. The clause goes on to say 
that repatriation is also covered but the reference to medically necessary is from a different 
sentence and doesnt apply here in my view to the actual costs themselves  they need to 
be reasonable, not medically necessary. What does apply is the need for reasonable 
transport to be provided and there are further clauses that say only the identical class 
booked by the policyholder will be used for transport booked to get them home unless AXA 
agrees otherwise. But Mr and Mrs B were on a world cruise and werent booked to fly; 
arguably no class applies.
Having seen the emails and contemporaneous notes of the calls between Mr B and AXA, its 
clear that when it was decided that it was medically necessary for Mrs B to fly home 
business class accompanied by a nurse, Mr B explained that Mrs B was nervous and 
needed him to be in business class. Theres no note that she had to see him, but the travel 
agent involved warned the seats mightnt be near each other. Mr B wasnt told this. Mr B 
explained that if he knew Mrs B wouldnt be near him, he wouldve travelled economy and 
visited her; he even provided evidence that the airline wouldve permitted this. Mr Bs 
account, which I accept, was that he couldnt be seen at all by Mrs B and he had to visit her 
in the same way as if hed come from economy.
The situation was made worse as Mrs B and the nurse werent booked for either flight to sit 
next each other. Mrs B was unwell, needed medical support, and had to sit through the 
attempts of aircrew to get passengers to move. This was on top of the delayed repatriation 
due to the failure to provide the nurses name to the airline and the hospital refusing to let 
her leave due to the failure of AXA to provide a guarantee of payment. Even the nurse 
commented that the hospital had not been pleasant.
Taking all the evidence into account, Im persuaded that Mr B only paid for the upgrade in 
order to be near Mrs B and offer her support. This was not possible in a meaningful way due 
to where he was sat. And in any event, I think it wasnt reasonable for AXA to refuse to pay 
for Mr Bs upgrade in the circumstances; there was no identical class of flight booked for his 
holiday, Mrs B was nervous and unwell, and theyd had a stressful time at the hospital and 
the delayed repatriation. I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to refund the upgrade cost 
with interest.
AXA doesnt think that its fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to get compensation for both 
financial and non-financial loss. That ignores the long-established practice of this service. AXA accepts its service wasnt good enough and the communication let Mr and Mrs B down. 
This caused trouble and upset, which is why it offered £300 compensation. I think this is fair 
and reasonable, though I note that the trouble and upset suffered by Mr and Mrs B also 
included the delayed repatriation due to AXAs failure, the difficulties leaving the hospital due 
to AXAs failure, and the failure to ensure the nurse was booked next to Mrs B. Overall 
though, I think £300 is the appropriate amount  for compensation for trouble and upset and 
note Mr and Mrs B accepted this.
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc should refund the upgrade paid by Mr B, together with interest of 8% 
simple interest a year from the date he paid for the upgrade until the date of refund. It should 
also pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AXA Insurance UK Plc should refund the 
upgrade paid by Mr B, together with interest as outlined above, and £300 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs B if not already paid. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman