DRN-3865377
The complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (SFS) made errors with the administration of his hire agreement. 
What happened
Mr A hired a car from SFS under a hire agreement. He made monthly rental payments to 
SFS. 
In November 2021 Mr A said he called SFS and instructed it to change his direct debit 
payment so that the monthly rentals were collected from his partners bank account instead 
of his account. Mr A said he also asked SFS to change his address details as hed moved. 
Mr A said SFS confirmed to him it had done this. 
The rental payment due to be taken in November 2021 was not collected  unbeknown to Mr 
A at the time.
SFS said it tried to contact Mr A several times by post, text message and phone calls 
between December 2021 and May 2022 to make him aware of the missed payment in 
November. SFSs notes show that Mr A called it in February 2022, but he failed security as 
he gave the wrong address and postcode. Mr A eventually spoke to SFS in May 2022. He 
said this was the first time he found out about the missed payment. 
Mr A tried to pay the missed payment in July 2022 but SFS told him he was still in arrears 
even after hed paid it. Mr A complained to SFS and asked it to get the missed payment 
removed from his credit file. He said this was affecting the interest rate he was being quoted 
on new mortgage deals.
In response to Mr As complaint SFS said that it should have told him that hed need to make 
a manual payment for November 2021 when he called to change the direct debit. It said it 
also mistakenly allocated the payment he made to cover the missed payment from 
November 2021 to his July 2021 rental. 
SFS said it would waive the arrears as a gesture of goodwill and instruct the credit reference 
agencies to remove the missed payment for November 2021. It said it would not instruct the 
credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information relating to the missed payment 
for the months between December 2021 and July 2022 as it had frequently tried to contact 
Mr A about it during that time. 
Unhappy with SFSs response, Mr A referred his complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint should be upheld in part. He said it appeared to be 
SFSs error that the November 2021 payment was missed as it didnt tell Mr A he might need 
to make a manual payment for that month. And he said it also appeared to be SFSs error 
that it didnt change Mr As address in November 2021  when he most likely asked it to. 
He thought that failing to change Mr As address had likely contributed to the time it had 
taken Mr A to realise what had gone wrong. He said this was because Mr A wasnt receiving 
SFS arrears letters and had, conceivably, thought the text messages he was getting were 
phishing communications. He thought SFS should instruct the credit reference agencies to 
remove any information about the missed payment from Mr As credit file between 
December 2021 and May 2021. 
The investigator didnt think SFS should do the same in respect of any adverse reporting 
after May 2021 as he thought Mr A had been aware of the problem after that but hadnt 
cleared the arrears until July 2022. He said he hadnt seen enough information to show Mr A 
had suffered a loss in respect of a new mortgage specifically as a result of the arrears on his 
credit file. 
SFS accepted the investigators view.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
said if everything had gone how it was supposed to, he wouldnt have had any arrears on his 
credit file. So, at the very least, he thought all of the information about the missed payment 
should be removed from his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SFS accepted the investigators view that it should instruct the credit reference agencies to 
remove the record of the missed payment between December 2021 and May 2022. I agree 
that it appears SFS failed to inform Mr A of the possibility hed need to make a manual 
payment in November 2021 and that it most likely failed to update Mr As address. These 
appear to have been the main reasons why Mr A missed the payment in November 2021 
without realising. So, as a start, I agree that what the investigator proposed is the fair thing to 
do here. 
What Mr A and the investigator couldnt reach agreement on is whether SFS should also do 
this in respect of the same arrears reported after May 2022. 
In deciding whats fair I weigh up two things. On the one hand, as Mr A has quite rightly 
pointed out, its unlikely hed have any arrears showing on his credit file had SFS done what 
it was supposed to. On the other hand, after Mr A became aware of the arrears, it took him 
nearly two months to make a payment to clear them. And Mr A hasnt given an explanation 
as to why it took him this long.
 
Overall, while Mr A could have mitigated his position by clearing the arrears as soon as he 
found out about them, it doesnt feel fair to me that as a result of what ultimately was SFS 
errors to begin with Mr A is left in a position where his ability to obtain credit (or the cost of 
credit to him) could be adversely affected for several years. The November 2021 payment 
was the only one he missed after all.
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for SFS to instruct the credit reference agencies to 
remove all record of the missed payment in November 2021 (including any associated 
record of arrears) from Mr As credit file.
I dont find SFS needs to do any more than this. I find the arrears it wrote off were fair 
compensation for its errors. And, while Ive concluded that credit might have been more 
expensive for Mr A in the future, Ive not seen enough evidence in this case that Mr A is paying more on his mortgage, or in respect of any other credit agreement for that matter,  
specifically as a result of the information about the missed payment on his credit file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. To put things right Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial Services must instruct the credit reference 
agencies to remove all record of the missed payment in November 2021 (including any 
associated record of arrears) from Mr As credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman