DRN-2918339
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that when they claimed on their British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) HomeCare policy that the engineer that attended caused damage in their 
home. 
There are several parties and representatives of British Gas involved throughout the claim 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to British Gas.
What happened
On 10 December 2019 Mr and Mrs G had a leak on their ensuite bathroom sink.
As this was covered by their British Gas HomeCare policy Mrs G contacted them to report 
the leak coming from the anti-syphon trap. 
An engineer attended but did not have the correct parts, so a standard trap was fitted. As he 
undertook the work water escaped on to the floor and damaged the upstairs carpets. 
Whilst the engineer was there it was noticed that dirt from his wet footwear had soiled the 
carpets in the hall, stairs and bathroom. Mr G put down a plastic sheet to cover the carpets, 
but they were already soiled. The engineer said that he had not been supplied with any 
equipment to cover his wet footwear. 
After the engineer had left it was noticed that water was dripping through the light fitting in 
the kitchen below. This later stopped.
Mr and Mrs G made a complaint to British Gas about the damage to their carpets and the 
incorrect trap fitted to the ensuite sink.
In February 2020 a British Gas engineer carried out a visit to look at the damage and see 
what work needed to take place to complete the work to the sink. They arranged to come 
back to complete this in March 2020. 
By November 2020 despite numerous emails and telephone calls made to British Gas and 
their representatives by Mr and Mrs G the claim had not moved forward and the work to fit 
the correct trap to the sink was still not completed. 
On 9 November 2020 Mr G finally spoke to a British Gas customer relations representative 
who was able to progress their complaint. 
The sink was still not repaired to a standard acceptable to Mr and Mrs G. The anti-syphon 
trap had still not been replaced and a different style of plug had been used. The electrics had 
not been inspected since the water had leaked through the ceiling and the floor coverings 
had not been cleaned/repaired. 
A British Gas representative came out to inspect the damage to the carpets and confirmed 
that they were unable to clean them. On 2 December 2020 Mrs G accepted £1500 in full and 
final settlement of the claim for the damaged flooring.
Appointments were also booked for both a plumbing engineer and electrician to attend on 
the morning of 2 February 2021. After the appointments had been booked the electrician 
called to advise Mr and Mrs G that they would be unable to attend due to Covid restrictions 
as it was non-essential work and the Dyno engineer attended later than agreed, so Mr G 
refused him entry. 
Mr G advised British Gas that he no longer wanted them to complete these jobs and wanted 
compensation for the overall experience and for money to cover the cost for third parties to 
complete these repairs to be included in this.
In February 2021 British Gas paid £500 to Mr and Mrs G as a gesture of good will and in 
recognition of the problems experienced in dealing with them. British Gas also confirmed 
that Mr and Mrs G could arrange for a third party to complete the remaining repairs, and that 
these costs would be reimbursed.
Mr and Mrs G were not happy with this response and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld their complaint and said British Gas should pay £200 more 
compensation. They didnt make a finding on the carpets as Mr and Mrs G had accepted a 
full and final offer on this in December 2020. Mr and Mrs G state that this was not a 
satisfactory outcome.
As Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the investigators view the case has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sink repair and damage caused
The attendance by the engineer on behalf of British Gas was less than satisfactory. I think it 
is reasonable to expect an engineer to turn up with a supply of basic parts and tools to 
complete a simple job. I do accept that there are likely to be many different types of anti-
syphon traps and that is likely the engineer would need to see the sink to confirm exactly 
which one he needed. I feel it was acceptable to put on a temporary trap but the correct one 
should have been ordered and fitted soon after. The engineer should have had parts 
available to cap off pipes before starting such a job. If these had been available, then it is 
likely any escape of water when removing the sink to fit the trap would have been small and 
not caused any damage.
The wet and dirt that went on to the carpets from the outdoor shoes of the engineer was 
easily avoidable if they had been supplied with plastic covers for outdoor shoes when 
wearing them inside.  
As water had gone in to a light fitting I think it is reasonable that Mr and Mrs G would want 
this checking by an electrician for reassurance that there was no damage and I think that 
such a check should have been made much higher priority. A check should have been 
completed as soon as any Covid regulations allowed. It should not be still outstanding 14 months later.
Floor coverings 
Mr and Mrs G have said in their complaint that the payment for carpets had not been nearly 
met to purchase equivalent quality. However, they had accepted a payment of £1500 in 
December 2020 in full and final settlement. 
I have looked in to this part of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint even though they accepted £1500 
as a full and final offer because they said they accepted it as British Gas told them it was not 
prepared to go any higher, and that they could still bring a complaint to our service about the 
amount paid if they didnt think it was fair. 
Having looked at the evidence I can see that the carpets that were damaged were 
approximately 10 years old and were not able to be repaired. The £1500 paid did not include 
costs for replacement underlay as this was seen to be wear and tear and not related to the 
damage caused to the carpet. 
I feel that the £1500 that was paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont 
require British Gas to pay anything else for the carpets. 
 
Customer service
There is a period of 14 months between the engineer attending to repair Mr and Mrs Gs 
leaking valve and the final offer of compensation from British Gas and still some of the 
required and agreed work has not been completed. During this time Mr G was undergoing 
treatment for a serious illness and was in poor health.
I think that 14 months is an unreasonable length of time to sort out a repair to a sink and 
check the electrics had not been damaged - even taking in to account the restrictions that 
were out of British Gas control due to Covid restrictions.
Between February 2020 and November 2020 Mr and Mrs G tried to contact British Gas 
numerous times to progress the claim without success. and I feel that this poor level of 
service and having to constantly relate their complaint over and over again to different 
contractors appointed by British Gas would have caused them both further distress and 
inconvenience. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and feel that further compensation of £200 is 
appropriate in this case. British Gas must also reimburse the costs for a third party to 
complete the remaining repairs and check the electrics. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold their complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr and Mrs G a further compensation payment of £200 (total compensation of £700) 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to them over the past 14 months. They must also 
reimburse the costs for a third party to complete the remaining repairs and check the 
electrics. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman