DRN-2019500
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to specify the date her membership 
would end, which resulted in her missing out on securing a savings account with a 
preferential interest rate.  
What happened
Mrs S was party to a joint mortgage with Nationwide from around 1997. For ease of 
reference, Ill refer to her solely for the purposes of this decision. 
Because she held the mortgage, Mrs S was accepted as a member of Nationwide. Amongst 
other things, this membership meant she was entitled to certain benefits such as higher 
interest rates on savings accounts with the building society. 
In January 2017, Nationwide sent Mrs S an annual mortgage statement which set out that 
she had around £5,000 left to pay before her mortgage would be redeemed. The mortgage 
term was originally agreed at being over 25 years, so this statement stipulated that the 
agreed repayment date was April 2022. 
However, because Mrs S had been making regular overpayments towards the mortgage, a 
few months later she had nearly cleared the outstanding balance. So, on 2 April 2017, 
Nationwide sent her a letter which explained that the mortgage was nearing its end date. 
This letter went on to say that once the final payment had been received, the account would 
be closed. And to repay the balance, around £7.00 would be taken in her next mortgage 
direct debit payment. 
Mrs Ss direct debit was normally claimed from her account within the first two to three days 
of each month. Therefore, based on the wording of the letter, she assumed that her final 
payment would be at the beginning of September 2017. As she was keen to continue to be a 
member of the building society, she opened a savings account on 31 August 2017. 
She did so with the understanding that she could take advantage of the preferential interest 
rates applicable to members of the building society. And she wanted to make sure she 
secured the higher interest rate on her savings, before the final repayment of her mortgage 
meant shed cease to be a member. Her plan was to save the money shed been overpaying 
on the mortgage, once it was fully repaid.   
Once the mortgage had been redeemed, Mrs S noticed that she hadnt received the interest 
rate shed hoped for. It came to light that she hadnt received a long-term members interest 
rate  rather a standard rate. Nationwide told her that this was because her membership had 
ended on 2 August 2017 when the balance of her mortgage had been fully repaid.  Unhappy 
with this, Mrs S told the building society she expected it to reinstate her membership and 
give her the preferred rate.
Mrs S claims not to have received a response from Nationwide, despite sending numerous 
letters to it. Because of this, she raised a complaint in 2019. Nationwide responded and said 
that it hadnt made an error. Its rationale was that the letter it sent in August 2017 was strictly 
correct in saying that the next direct debit for the mortgage would clear the balance in full. 
And it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs S to have opened the savings account sooner, if 
she wanted to ensure that she could continue to benefit from the members rate. Therefore, 
Nationwide declined her request to apply the interest rate shed hoped for. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into and thought that Nationwide hadnt given Mrs S clear information. 
So, he recommended that Nationwide apply the preferential interest rate that Mrs S was 
eligible for in August 2017 and backdate this rate to when the savings account was opened. 
Also, because of the inconvenience caused to Mrs S, he thought that Nationwide should 
award £50 compensation.
Nationwide does not accept. It submits that it was Mrs Ss choice when to apply for the 
savings account and that she had the time to do so to ensure she secured a preferential rate 
as a member. Had she have done so before 2 August 2017, she couldve benefited from the 
higher interest rate. And, she couldve saved only a nominal amount into this account while 
continuing to make overpayments towards the mortgage, to allow her to effectively take 
advantage of both options. 
Because Nationwide is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the rules of membership, Mrs S was what Nationwide refer to as a borrowing 
member, while she owed money to the building society on her mortgage. Ive considered 
these terms and they do make it reasonably clear that such a membership ceases when 
(amongst other things) money is no longer owed to Nationwide on a mortgage loan. 
Therefore, Nationwide was not strictly incorrect in deciding not to offer the members 
preferential interest rate to Mrs S. Because, the account was opened some days after her 
membership ended on 2 August 2017.
That said, Nationwide does not dispute that, while a member, Mrs S was eligible for a 
preferential rate on the savings account that she opened later that same month. And, as I 
see it, its not in question that Mrs S intended to take advantage of this preferential interest 
rate. She held previous savings accounts with Nationwide, amongst other products such as 
credit cards  and shes banked with Nationwide for a number of years. Indeed, Nationwide 
has confirmed that she first became a member around 1989.
Consequently, I do not doubt Mrs Ss submission that she enjoyed the benefit of 
membership and wished for this to continue after her mortgage had been redeemed. Her 
version of events persuades me that it was always her plan to open a savings account to 
place savings into, once her mortgage had been repaid. And, financially speaking, it makes 
sense that any customer would try to obtain the best possible return on their savings i.e. with 
the highest available rate of interest. So, Im satisfied Mrs S opened the savings account 
before she believed she would cease to become eligible for a favourable rate as a member. With this in mind, the key point for me to determine is whether Nationwide provided Mrs S 
with reasonable information surrounding exactly when her membership would end. As this 
membership status was linked to the mortgage she held and Mrs S was aware of this 
connection it follows that Ive considered the communication Nationwide shared with her 
about when her mortgage would be redeemed. By its own admission, Nationwide sent two 
pieces of correspondence leading up to the end of the mortgage that contained this 
information; an annual statement in January 2017 and the letter dated 2 August 2017. 
As the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) stipulates the obligations under their 
regime. According to the principles-based approach set out by the FCA, there are a number 
of fundamental duties that must be followed. One of which, is that a firm must pay due 
regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading. As a regulated building society, Nationwide must 
follow such principles.  
The statement sent in January 2017 duly set out the remaining mortgage balance, amongst 
other account information. Although it displayed this, I am not persuaded that its reasonable 
to have expected Mrs S to be held responsible for calculating the exact date that the 
mortgage would end. Rather, the statement set out exactly what she owed at that time 
based on what shed repaid over the past year  not what the coming year would look like in 
express terms. Indeed, in terms of a specific date for when the mortgage would end, the 
summary actually only showed the original agreed repayment date of April 2022. 
Turning to the letter sent in August 2017, this document was sent the same day that the final 
mortgage payment was paid, which effectively ended Mrs Ss membership. This was sent by 
standard post, so (at best) Nationwide could only have expected Mrs S to first receive it the 
next day. 
So, even if I was to give Nationwide the benefit of doubt that this letter was successfully 
delivered the following day  Mrs S could only have interpreted what the letter said from       
3 August 2017 at the earliest. There are a number of different statements in the letter that 
could be construed as coming into effect at a future date. For example, Once weve 
received your final payment, well close your account. And; Were pleased to let you know 
that the above mortgage account is nearing its end date. 
Nationwide claims that these statements are strictly true  the letter was generated at one 
point on that date and the final payment followed shortly afterwards the same day. Yet, it 
failed to detail exactly what date this would happen, for example setting out the date that the 
mortgage would end. Or, exactly when the final payment date would be. In consequence, 
without a specific date, its my opinion that Nationwide could only have expected Mrs S to 
have made a rational assumption based on when she received the letter  rather than when 
it generated it.  
With this in mind, theres a key point in the letter that Ive placed the most weight on in my 
findings. This said that: The payment we need to repay your balance is £7.10. This includes 
all charges applicable to your mortgage. This amount will be taken in your next mortgage 
Direct Debit payment [my emphasis].
I find it a logical assumption that the next payment would fall on a future date. I base this on 
the general definition of this constituting a subsequent act; along with what Mrs S could 
reasonably be expected to comprehend at the time. Including, when her direct debits would 
normally be claimed. This, coupled with the fact that (by the time she received the letter), the 
direct debit had already been taken from her account  meaning the repayment on               
2 August 2017 would naturally be seen as a previous payment. In light of this, its my judgment that Nationwide failed to give Mrs S reasonable notice of 
when her membership would cease. In other words, I am not satisfied that Nationwide 
communicated in a way that was clear or not misleading.
Nationwide asserts that, by overpaying her mortgage each month, Mrs S wouldve known 
that the original 25-year term would be substantially shortened. This may well have been the 
case  and it strikes me that this was the very reason Mrs S paid above her monthly 
contractual payment. Nevertheless, I cannot accept that its fair or reasonable for Nationwide 
to have expected her to calculate exactly what end date this would result in. And, as 
mentioned, the precise membership end date was particularly prevalent in this case. 
In any event, Mrs S was within her rights to make overpayments and she took advantage. 
Ultimately, I cannot reasonably determine that, because she decided to do so, this means 
that Nationwide should not have still paid due regard to her information needs. 
I recognise that Mrs S had the time and opportunity to open other products with Nationwide 
while still a member. It may also have been possible for her to have afforded to save into an 
account while maintaining the overpayments towards the mortgage. Even so, this does not 
mean that she had to. 
It was Mrs Ss prerogative whether to open an account and whether she decided to spend or 
save. Indeed, Nationwide accepts it was her choice when to open the savings account  
which means she could wait right up until the final date before her membership was due to 
end. Had Nationwide provided clear and not misleading information, Im persuaded that    
Mrs S wouldve acted in time to secure the members interest rate she wanted while she was 
still eligible. To that end, I determine that Nationwide should place Mrs S in the position she 
wouldve been in, had she secured the interest rate on the savings account that shed hoped 
for.  
Its important to make clear that when reaching my decision, I do so based solely on the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. It follows that I am not determining that all 
mortgages provided by Nationwide nor any other bank or building society should 
necessarily give such express instructions or specific information. 
Finally, our investigator recommended £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs S. The letters of complaint that she sent demonstrate to me that she was 
upset to be told she was no longer a member of the society  especially when she had held 
this status with Nationwide for such a long time. In light of this, Im satisfied that an award of 
compensation should be made. In the circumstances, I find £50 fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to:
use its best endeavours to match the interest rate Mrs Ss Nationwide savings 
account wouldve had with the long-term members rate, from a date that it was 
previously available before 2 August 2017. Or, if this isnt possible, ensure that the 
funds are placed into an account with the same applicable interest rate, terms and 
conditions;
backdate the applicable interest at the same preferable interest rate, from the 
account opening date to the date of settlement, less any interest that these funds 
have earned in the account they are currently invested in and less any tax thats 
lawfully deductible;
and award Mrs S £50 compensation.Mrs S should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding and she wouldnt 
be able to take further action over these matters. If, however, she rejects the decision or 
doesnt reply on time, her legal rights will remain intact.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman