DRN-3904068
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt handle three complaints he made as separate 
issues. He also complains about three instances of poor customer service to which these 
complaints relate.
What happened
Mr H has a Barclays account and has been a customer for many years.
In March 2022 Mr H wanted to make an online payment. He had to authenticate himself and 
was sent a one-time passcode. Mr H says the code he was sent didnt work and that the 
payment hed tried to make showed as pending. Mr H says he had to make a second 
payment  to pay for a ticket he wanted to buy  because of this and that he couldnt access 
the first payment he tried to make that was marked as pending. Mr H complained to 
Barclays. He says Barclays closed the complaint straightaway. He complained about this too 
 making that his second complaint.
Mr H subsequently spoke to Barclays via its chat service. He says that he was passed from 
call handler to call handler and had to keep on repeating himself. He complained about this 
too  making this his third complaint.
Mr H asked Barclays to respond to each of his complaints individually. Barclays didnt do so. 
Instead, it responded to them as one, saying that they were all to do with the original 
problem hed had with his payment. Barclays upheld Mr Hs complaint and offered to pay 
him £100 in compensation  and then paid this into account even though he didnt agree 
with the outcome. Barclays also said that the payment that had been marked as pending 
re-credited his account two weeks after Mr H had originally attempted it. Mr H complained to 
us as he wasnt happy with Barclays responses, or lack of them.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaints and summarised his understanding of 
them. Mr H thanked our investigator for their prompt and comprehensive response and 
confirmed that all the details were correct. The only additional point he made was that 
Barclays didnt reply to his concerns after he brought his complaint to us. He said that 
Barclays should pay him £200 in compensation  the amount hed been unable to access 
whilst his first payment remained pending.
Our investigator agreed that Barclays hadnt acted fairly and recommended that Barclays 
pay an additional £100 in compensation. Barclays agreed to do so. Mr H didnt accept, 
saying that £200 was fair compensation for his first complaint but that an additional £100 
should be awarded for the subsequent issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted that there was a problem with the first one-time passcode that it sent 
Mr H meaning his payment didnt go through and instead was shown as pending. Barclays 
has also accepted that Mr Hs complaint about this wasnt set up properly. Mr H wasnt, as a 
result, able to access this pending payment until it credited back to his account. That was 
two weeks later. Barclays has also accepted that it could have provided better customer 
service when Mr H complained about this. So, theres no dispute that Barclays could have 
done better. The only question that still needs resolving is how to compensate Mr H.
I can see that Mr H feels he should get £200 in compensation for the initial problem he had. 
Hes based that figure on the fact that the payment that was pending was for £200  in fact 
it was slightly more but nothing turns on that  so he should get the same amount in 
compensation. I can see Mr Hs logic, but as our investigator has explained when we make 
awards  if its appropriate to do so  we base the award on the impact of what has gone 
wrong. In this case, Mr H hasnt lost any money  he simply didnt have access to £200 for 
two weeks. And hes also had an experience that has been frustrating. I dont think the 
award that our investigator has recommended is unfair in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Given everything Ive just said, I consider £200 in compensation is a fair outcome so Im 
going to require Barclays to pay Mr H an additional £100 in compensation on top of the £100 
its already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H an additional £100 in 
compensation on top of the £100 its already paid in full and final settlement of his 
complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman