DRN-2641494
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC opened a current account for him after he notified it
he didnt want to proceed with an account switch.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 29 January 2021. In my provisional decision I said: 
What happened
On 10 May 2016 Mr M carried out a successful account switch application with Lloyds. On
11 May 2016, Mr M contacted Lloyds again. Mr M has told us he notified Lloyds that he
didnt want to proceed with the account switch and didnt want to open an account. Lloyds
confirms that on 11 May 2016 Mr M notified it that he didnt want to proceed with the account
switch. But Lloyds proceeded to open an account for Mr M, although it didnt complete the
switch process.
Over the years, Lloyds says it sent Mr M bank statements and letters about his account. Mr
M has told us he has experienced long term, serious health problems since the account was
opened and it was only in November 2019 that he realised the it existed.
Mr M complained and Lloyds responded on 22 November 2019. Lloyds said there was no
record of Mr Ms request to close the account but said it sent Mr M a letter on 11 May 2016
to confirm the account switch process had been terminated. Lloyds said £10.01 had accrued
in Mr Ms account.
Mr M referred his complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator. Mr M complained that
Lloyds had broken the law by opening an account he didnt want and that the issue had
impacted his credit score. The investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr Ms complaint
fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds says theres no record of Mr M telling it he didnt want to open the account. And
theres no call recording or note showing what was discussed on 11 May 2016. However, Mr
M has confirmed he decided to switch to another bank and Lloyds wrote to him on 11 May
2016 to confirm the switch process had been cancelled.
Where information is incomplete or disputed, Ill make my decision based on the balance of
probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened taking all the available
information into account. Here, its clear Mr M contacted Lloyds on 11 May 2016 and
terminated the account switch. I think its more likely than not that Mr M also told Lloyds that
he didnt want the account and that there was no need to open it.
I think its important to note that Mr M never used or funded the account. The balance
accrued as a result of refunded fees by Lloyds, not because of transactions Mr M made. In
my view, that adds further weight to the argument that Mr M cancelled the account switch
process and told Lloyds he didnt want the current account when he called on 11 May 2016.
Lloyds has correctly pointed out that it sent Mr M letters and statements over the years that
showed the account was open. I understand Mr M has experienced long standing serious
health problems since 2016 and highlighted the issue to Lloyds when it sent a replacement
debit card in November 2019. I dont doubt what Mr M has told us about his health and I
accept that likely impacted the timing of his complaint.
Mr M has told us he feels Lloyds actions broke the law and data protection rules. But the
Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service, we operate
differently to the courts. Our decisions are made on a fair and reasonable basis. And, whilst
Im satisfied Mr M did tell Lloyds he didnt want to proceed on 11 May 2016, he would have
needed to give his consent for it to have handled his application and information on 10 May
2016. As the investigator has said, if Mr M is concerned that Lloyds failed to follow the data
protection rules, he has the option to refer them to the Information Commissioners Office.
Mr M complains that the information reported by Lloyds to the credit reference agency has
had a negative impact. However, for the majority of the accounts existence it has been in
credit and it doesnt appear Lloyds reported adverse credit information. That being said, as I
agree Mr M most likely told Lloyds he didnt want the account on 11 May 2016, I think all
information about it should be removed from his credit file.
Mr M was concerned and upset to find the account was open despite his instructions. Im
satisfied this issue has caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience so I intend to tell
Lloyds to pay Mr M £100 to reflect that. Ive considered whether the award ought to be
higher, but Im satisfied £100 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr M.  
I asked Mr M and Lloyds to respond with any new information or comments they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. Mr M responded and confirmed he had nothing 
further to add. No response from Lloyds was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld, for the same reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to remove all the 
information reported about the account in question from Mr Ms credit file and pay him £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman