DRN-3638790
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service shes received from Lloyds Bank Plc regarding her 
current account. Specifically, shes upset about the way it spoke to her when she had told it 
about her additional needs.
What happened
Miss M has a current account with Lloyds. She has been in her overdraft in that account for 
some time. In December 2020, Lloyds had applied a hold on her account  that is a point 
where it freezes interest and charges to enable Miss M some breathing space to decide 
what to do with her finances. Miss M was liaising with a Debt Management Charity (DMC) 
and explained to Lloyds in January 2021 that there had been a delay. She asked whether 
the hold could be extended. She had a number of webchats with Lloyds and was told that 
shed have to call to have the hold agreed. Miss M explained to them that due to her 
additional needs, phone calls werent something she should have to do.
After some hours speaking to different people at Lloyds a hold was placed on Miss Ms 
account. Miss M complained about the way she was spoken to and was paid £50 
compensation. Miss M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She explained that 
she felt Lloyds hadnt done enough to take into account her vulnerabilities or additional 
needs. She also explained she received letters telling her that it would be a benefit to close 
her account which had made her panic. Overall, she feels Lloyds provided a poor and 
distressing service and this has impacted her health. She said that Lloyds hasnt assisted 
her in trying to reduce the debt on her account.
I sent my provisional decision upholding this complaint on 25 July 2022. I explained that I felt 
Lloyds could have done more for Miss M. The following is the relevant extract from that 
decision and forms part of this decision:
Customer service
Im first going to address the customer service Miss M received from Lloyds specifically over 
webchat. I can see that despite Lloyds being aware of Miss Ms additional needs and how 
phone calls affect her it told her that she didnt have choice but to phone them to ask for an 
additional hold. I now understand that when a customer asks for a hold on an account, 
Lloyds should be looking at their circumstances to determine what it could do. The staff it 
has trained to do this are only available on the phone  or in branch. So, I can see why Miss 
M was directed to call although I can also understand her disappointment.
I can see that one of the webchat advisers spent a lot of time on the phone trying to get 
through to the correct department  well over an hour which does highlight how difficult it 
would be for Lloyds customers to get through  especially if they are at their place of work 
like Miss M was. The adviser wasnt able to get through before the phone lines ended for the 
day but I can see she made an effort to sort Miss Ms situation out. The following day 
another adviser tried and then told her shed have to call and that he couldnt speak to the 
DMC on her behalf which I cant see was something Miss M wanted anyway. When she 
spoke to a manager I dont think she got the service she couldve expected. 
Specifically I can see that Miss M was trying to explain the situation and its clear Lloyds 
couldnt do what she wanted at the time  this isnt Lloyds fault. However, I think the way 
Miss M was spoken to wouldve made her feel upset and uncomfortable. Specifically when 
the manager said when referencing the actions of the adviser making a call on Miss Ms 
behalf:
this is not something we usually would do so by going over and above this has dragged 
the situation on
Miss M was trying to get information, and whilst I understand Lloyds couldnt do some of this 
on her behalf, it did try to. Miss M shouldnt have then been made to feel responsible for the 
time Lloyds spent trying to help her.
Overall, I think that being told continually to do something Lloyds knew Miss M wasnt 
comfortable with wasnt helpful. Whilst the relevant team was only available over the phone it 
was clear this wouldve taken a long time to get through, and that Miss M wouldve found the 
situation challenging. Id have expected some level of empathy to be shown during the 
transcript and I cant see there was any.
Miss Ms account
I now turn to Miss Ms account, and Lloyds actions. Lloyds has said that due to Miss Ms 
vulnerabilities it has applied more holds to her account than normal  it would normally only 
give two per year but has given Miss M at least five. It also said that it hadnt received an 
Income and Expenditure (I&E) form so wasnt able to put anything in place to help Miss M. It 
said it would be happy to liaise with a DMC on her behalf.
Miss M has confirmed that since she brought the complaint  in January 2021  she hasnt 
received much communication from Lloyds. She said she tried to enter into a plan with a 
DMC but she didnt find the DMC helpful so didnt do this. She did provide me with an I&E 
form she completed with the DMC but pointed out some inaccuracies. And she explained 
she had returned an I&E to Lloyds in 2019 although Lloyds cant find a record of this.
Looking at Miss Ms situation and account its clear she is having trouble repaying her debt. I 
think shes experienced some financial difficulty and I dont think Lloyds has done enough 
here. I acknowledge that it gave Miss M additional holds on her account, but I cant see its 
done anything to help her since then.
Lloyds processes are in place for a reason, but I can see it gave Miss M additional holds as 
she was trying to get a plan in place with a DMC. So I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to 
do this. But Miss M didnt put this plan in place, and Lloyds hasnt done anything since to 
help her. Had Lloyds pursued Miss M for an I&E form it wouldve seen her financial situation 
and how much shed expected to be able to pay towards her overdraft each month. From the 
I&E Miss M completed with the DMC, I can see this wouldve been around £45.
Lloyds has told me that had it liaised with Miss M, some of the options available to help her 
would be:
-To manage the account as it is with charges and interest being applied
-To enter into an arrangement with a flag but with charges being applied
-To enter into an arrangement to pay with interest and charges being frozen, which 
would attract a marker on her credit file-To pass her account to recoveries, freezing all interest and charges if the repayment 
plan is unsustainable.
Having looked at Miss Ms financial situation I dont think that a mark on her credit file 
wouldve prevented her from taking the action. I can see that this is her only bank account 
however and so it was important to her to retain an account. Its clear she was open to 
reaching a repayment plan as she had spoken to a DMC about this. So, I think if Lloyds had 
been more proactive to help Miss Ms situation, shed have been in a situation where 
charges and interest were no longer being applied to her account.
I do acknowledge that Miss M has made a number of complaints when shes received 
communication about her account, and managing her debt. And I know she was liaising with 
a DMC  but it wasnt mandatory for Miss M to only go through a DMC, particularly if she 
didnt feel comfortable with the service she received from it. But this doesnt mean Lloyds 
wasnt then responsible for helping Miss M. It wouldve been clear from February 2021  at 
the end of the hold applied in January  that Lloyds hadnt received contact from the DMC 
and that it didnt have an I&E. I think it shouldve taken steps to contact Miss M and try to 
help  outlining her options. Had it done so, I think Miss M wouldve been in a position where 
she was no longer paying interest and charges on her account.
Going forward
Its important that going forward Lloyds and Miss M communicate about the situation to 
ensure Miss M is treated fairly. I expect Lloyds to send Miss M an I&E form and I expect 
Miss M to complete this and send it back so Lloyds can outline her up to date options going 
forward to avoid the current cycle that Miss M is in with holds and interest being charged.
Putting things right
Ive explained that I think Lloyds needs to do more here to support Miss M. Its difficult to 
know what Miss M wouldve done had the options been presented to her in February 2021, 
and Im mindful that any action wouldve required Miss Ms full co-operation so with this in 
mind, I think the following would be fair redress:
-Lloyds to send Miss M an I&E form to assess her current situation. Upon receipt of 
the completed I&E form that Miss M sends back it should:
oRefund charges and interest applied to Miss Ms account from February 2021 
when her January hold ended to the date it sends Miss Ms I&E form.
oUpon assessment of Miss Ms situation it should outline the support available 
to Miss M, being mindful this is her only current account. If that support 
freezes interest and charges then Lloyds should refund any shes paid in the 
interim between the I&E being sent and the suitable option being put in place.
oAs far as reasonably possible, the communication of the above should be 
done by post or email.
-Pay Miss M an additional £100 for the customer service she received during her 
webchats and for Lloyds inaction since she made a complaint.
Miss M accepted the provisional decision. She said shed be happy to work with Lloyds and 
would complete an I&E form as soon as it was sent to her. Lloyds also broadly accepted the 
provisional decision and said the redress for trouble and upset can be paid to Miss M to an 
account of her choice. The refund of the charges and interest will be applied to the account 
the charges were paid from. It clarified that Miss M holds five accounts with it  two being 
current accounts. It also said that, in the hypothetical examples available to Miss M, if she 
wanted to avoid an arrangement marker on her credit file then shed be repaying her overdraft under the normal terms with the charges switched on. It accepted this didnt 
change the outcome of the complaint as my decision set out that that a credit file marker 
wouldnt have prevented Miss M from taking action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss M and Lloyds have both accepted and not provided any additional comments for me 
to consider, Ive reached the same outcome for the same reasons set out in my provisional 
decision (relevant extract copied above which forms part of this decision).
I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank Plc must do the following:
- Send Miss M an I&E form to assess her current situation. Upon receipt of the 
completed I&E form that Miss M sends back it should:
oRefund charges and interest applied to Miss Ms account from February 2021 
when her January hold ended to the date it sends Miss Ms I&E form.
oUpon assessment of Miss Ms situation it should outline the support available 
to Miss M. If that support freezes interest and charges then Lloyds should 
refund any shes paid in the interim between the I&E being sent and the 
suitable option being put in place.
oAs far as reasonably possible, the communication of the above should be 
done by post or email.
- Pay Miss M an additional £100 for the customer service she received during her 
webchats and for Lloyds inaction since she made a complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman