DRN-4190349
The complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt treat him fairly when a deposit he made in branch 
went wrong.
What happened
Mr D has a current account with Lloyds Bank.
On 30 December Mr D went to a Lloyds Bank branch to deposit cash into his account. He 
made two deposits totalling £1,150 without any problems but had a problem when he tried to 
make a third deposit. Mr D says the machine he used didnt say how much he had 
deposited, and his card wasnt returned, so he asked a member of staff for assistance. Mr D 
says the member of staff collected money from the back of the machine and gave it back to 
him. He says that the money that was handed to him included old £20, £10 and £5 notes 
which was a red flag as hed only deposited £50 notes. He says he raised his concerns as 
he also thought the money the member of staff had given him back was less than the 
amount he had deposited. Mr D says the member of staff told him to deposit the money 
shed handed back to him using the machine and if there was excess money at the end of 
the day that would be credited to his account. Mr D says he was told hed get a call back that 
evening but didnt.
Mr D says he started getting anxious about his money after he didnt receive a call back but 
couldnt do anything about it as the long Bank Holiday weekend had begun. He complained 
to Lloyds Bank on 3 January 2023 raising his concerns.
Lloyds Bank investigated Mr Ds complaint and said that there had been no excess money at 
the end of the day, so it didnt accept that any of his money had been lost in the machine. 
Lloyds Bank also said that its staff had followed the correct procedures  since Mr D had 
complained about the way the whole matter had been handled  but that it couldnt send him 
a copy of them. Lloyds Bank did, however, accept that it hadnt called when it said it would 
and offered £50 in compensation. Mr D accepted that compensation and complained to us 
about the deposit that had gone wrong.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and said that they didnt think Lloyds 
Bank needed to do more. Mr D was unhappy with our investigators conclusion saying that 
they hadnt explained how hed ended up with £20, £10 and £5 notes. He also said that 
Lloyds Bank should return at least £310 as he estimated hed tried to deposit at least £2,000 
that day. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, his case was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file and having spoken to Mr D at length, I agree with our investigator that 
Lloyds Bank doesnt need to do more in this case. Ill explain why.
No-one is disputing that there was a problem with the machine when Mr D tried to make his 
third deposit. Mr D has told me that the first deposit  which included £20, £10 and £5 notes 
 was money from a friend who had paid back a loan hed given him. And hes told me that 
the second deposit - £1,000 that was in a sealed bag  came from another business. I 
accept that. Hes also told me that the third deposit was of £50 notes only  notes that hed 
saved over time. The problem is that Mr D doesnt have any solid evidence as to how much 
he initially deposited when he made his third deposit  I can see from the receipts hed sent 
that his third deposit contained £1,300s worth of £50 notes. Hes told me he doesnt make 
these types of deposits particularly regularly, and that when he does so, they range from 
£1,000 to £3,000. And hes told me that the third deposit felt twice as thick as the second 
one he made  his estimate that he must have deposited at least £2,000 appears to be 
mostly based on this. But he also agreed with me that a £1,000s worth of loose £50 notes 
would feel thicker than £1,000s worth of £50 notes that had just come out of a sealed bag. 
In short, having looked at all the evidence, I think its more likely than not that all the money 
Mr D took to Lloyds Bank that morning ended up in his account.
I can see in this case that Lloyds Bank followed the procedure its meant to when there is a 
problem with one of its deposit machines. And Ive explained to Mr D why I wouldnt expect a 
bank to share its internal procedures with customers  particularly if they relate to security. 
Ive also explained that in this case, given everything Ive seen, its entirely possible that the 
£20, £10 and £5 notes that were handed to him belonged to other customers from earlier on 
that day who had had problems with the same deposit machine but hadnt realised. In other 
words, Lloyds Bank may have credited more money to his account than it should have done.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do more in this case as its 
already apologised for not calling Mr D back. In other words, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman