DRN-3617462
The complaint
The trustees of a trust I shall call J complain that National Westminster Bank Plc closed Js 
account, requiring the trustees to find a new bank for J.
What happened
In January 2022, NatWest wrote to the trustees of J saying that it would be closing Js 
account in July 2022. This forced the trustees to find a new bank for J. 
As the trustees live far apart, establishing a new account with a different bank has been very 
challenging and time-consuming for them.
The trustees complained. They said that NatWest should compensate them for the time and 
stress caused by having to find a new bank for J. However, NatWest said that it had made 
the decision to close all personal trust accounts and had given due notice.
Not content with this response, the trustees brought their complaint to our service. The 
trustees noted that, in similar situations where a bank had given notice of an account closure 
for commercial reasons, compensation to customers had been provided. They said J 
deserved the same treatment.
Our investigator considered the complaint but said that NatWest had done nothing wrong. 
He said that NatWest had acted within the terms and conditions of Js accounts. He 
acknowledged the impact of NatWests decision on the trustees but, as the bank hadnt done 
anything wrong, he said he couldnt fairly ask it to take any further action.
The trustees did not agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has communicated a commercial decision to withdraw from personal trust 
accounts. This is a decision for it to make. In much the same way as a customer is able to 
choose which bank they wish to use, a bank can choose which parts of the market they wish 
to serve.
The bank communicated its decision to the trustees of J in January 2022, giving six months 
notice. The part of the terms and conditions of Js account which relate to account closure 
state: We can also close any other account by giving you at least 60 days notice. NatWest 
therefore provided considerably more notice than it was obliged to give.
For these reasons, I do not believe NatWest has done anything wrong in choosing to close 
Js account or in how it communicated that decision to the trustees of J. Therefore, I do not 
believe I can require it to put anything right.
I can appreciate that NatWests decision is deeply unhelpful for the trustees of J, for whom 
the need to open an alternative bank account would have been very unwelcome. I 
appreciate that it will have required considerable time and effort from them, out of no fault of 
their own. However, I cant reasonably hold NatWest responsible for the challenges of 
opening a bank account with another bank and, as stated above, I believe it was entitled to 
choose to close Js account with the notice it gave. 
I also acknowledge that, in such circumstances, some banks might choose to compensate 
customers with a goodwill payment, which appears to have been the trustees experience 
elsewhere. However, this is a matter for the bank concerned. In the present case, given I 
dont believe NatWest has done anything wrong, I have no basis for requiring it to take such 
action.
Therefore, while I have sympathy for the trustees of J for the situation in which they find 
themselves, I do not require NatWest to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman