DRN-4132027
The complaint
Mr C complains Fairmead Insurance Limited misrepresented and mis-sold a legal expenses 
insurance policy to him.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of the events that led to this complaint. It does not 
therefore provide full details of everything that has happened.
Mr C took out a buildings insurance policy with Fairmead. Included within that policy was a 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr C had cause to claim on the legal expenses policy and seek assistance from Fairmead. 
Mr C raised different complaints around how that claim has been handled which have been 
considered by this service.
Based on the reality of how the legal claim he made has been dealt with under the policy, Mr 
C has complained the policy was misrepresented to him. Given it is common industry 
practice to seek fee arrangements with solicitors, Mr C has said this, and the impact it can 
have on a policyholder, should be fully detailed in the policy documentation provided. By not 
doing so, he says Fairmead is deliberately misleading policyholders as to the way a claim 
will be managed, the level of cover is actually available and to what extent its involvement in 
ensuring a claim would be progressed both promptly and fairly. Based on his experience 
Mr C has said the service provided has failed to comply with the product as marketed and 
sold.
Mr C has said that he believes a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Fairmead to use 
their own claims team to properly oversee that his claim is both promptly and fairly 
progressed by the claims handler/administrator it currently uses. And for Fairmead to ensure 
the claim is managed fully in line with the terms and conditions contained within the 
insurance policy as sold.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 21 April 2023. I said I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
I understand Mr C feels strongly as to what should be considered as part of this complaint 
and how. Mr C has also listed different rules and regulation that he believes Fairmead has 
breached.
I want to assure Mr C Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. However, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. I hope Mr C doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by both parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulation, regulators rules and guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
While I will take into account what Mr C has said about different rules and regulations such 
as the Consumer Rights Act 2015, FCA Guidance to firms and various aspects of the FCA 
Handbook such as PRIN Principles of Businesses, DISP Dispute Resolution and ICOBS 
Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (I have not listed them all here). But I wont be 
providing a detailed analysis of the same as Mr C has done.
The policies were initially taken out online, it would therefore be classed as a non-advised 
sale. Fairmead have said that the legal expenses policy was included free as a promotion 
alongside the buildings insurance policy and therefore Mr C is unable to complain that it was 
mis-sold as it wasnt sold or bought. I disagree with this, even though the policy may have 
been included free as a promotion, Fairmead would still have had a responsibility to provide 
information about it that was clear fair and not misleading. So, Mr C would be entitled to 
complain if he doesnt believe he was provided with the correct information about what cover 
the policy provided.
The policies renewed in subsequent years with Fairmead sending a renewal invitation and 
policy details. Those terms and the policies were accepted and therefore they, along with the 
free promotion continued.
Ive found that Mr Cs complaint about the legal expenses policy overall stems from his 
dissatisfaction with the way a claim has been dealt with under the policy. Some of the 
matters Mr C have raised are interlinked with issues other ombudsmen at this service have 
already considered as part of the complaints about how the legal claim has been handled 
and they have made findings on these matters. I wont therefore revisit these matters again, 
however if I do refer to them it is for contextual purposes only.
I understand based on Mr Cs actual experience of how a legal claim has been dealt with 
under the policy, why he believes detailed information should be set out at the start. 
However, the purpose of the policy documentation provided is to give an overview of the 
policy and what it will or will not provide cover for.
Having considered the relevant rules, (ICOBS), what the documentation should do is draw 
attention to the significant features and exclusions of the policy. And a significant feature or 
exclusion is one that would affect the decision of consumers generally as to whether to take 
out the policy or not.
It isn't possible, and nor would I expect the policy documentation to cover every scenario 
that might happen or set out in detail the many potential ways a legal claim maybe handled 
based on its circumstances. I'm satisfied the documentation explained generally what events 
it provided cover for and the way in which it intended to do so.
So I wouldnt expect to see, as Mr C has suggested should be included, details of the 
specific agreements Fairmead may enter into with solicitor firms, not least as the terms of 
these are potentially open to negotiation based on the needs of the underlying legal claim.
In any event, I have considered that under the General conditions to Section 4 of the policy 
document it does explain that Fairmead will set spending limits for professional adviser fees 
and charges during the claim. So, the expectation is set in the policy that this may happen, 
and I dont therefore think Fairmead has misrepresented this position. As I have said above, 
I dont believe the full details of why and how this may be implemented needs to be expanded upon as this can be varied.
Mr C has specifically pointed to the claim that the policy will provide payment of legal costs 
up to £50,000 and he believes that in reality that is untrue. I disagree, the policy doesnt 
claim to pay all costs that may be incurred, simply that the policy will indemnify the insured 
up to a limit of £50,000.
The policy document also explains claims are managed on behalf of Fairmead by a claims 
handler/administrator, who Ill refer to as D. So, I think the policy makes it clear Fairmead 
itself will not conduct the day to day running of a legal expenses insurance claim. I find 
therefore it has not misrepresented this position.
This service has previously explained to Mr C that we treat the actions D as being those of 
Fairmead. And as such, Mr C hasnt been disadvantaged by any commercial relationships 
that may exist between the parties. It has also been explained to Mr C that this service would 
not look to review the commercial relationships Fairmead chooses to have with its agents.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, Im persuaded that Fairmead 
provided information to Mr C about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
therefore find that Fairmead did not misrepresent or was the policy mis-sold to Mr C.
For completeness I will explain why, that even if I had of found the policy had been 
misrepresented or mis-sold why I wouldnt have awarded the remedy Mr C has requested.
Even if Fairmead should have made details about the policy clearer (and I dont think they 
should). I have no reason to think Mr C would have acted any differently, as there is nothing 
to show this matter would have been important to him at the time of sale. Mr C had no 
knowledge of intended use of the policy and therefore no need to consider the exact way in 
which the policy might operate in the specific circumstance hes since experienced.
In any event, legal expenses policies will all generally operate in a similar way, limiting the 
amount they will pay for adviser fees. So I think it would be unlikely Mr C would have got 
cover with a different provider which offered what he wanted. And as such, it wouldnt be 
possible to say Fairmead limited his choice in this way.
An alternate remedy if the policy had been found to have been misrepresented or mis-sold 
would be to refund the premiums paid plus interest. However, in this instance, no additional 
money was paid for the policy, so there wouldnt be a refund. Additionally, as Mr C has also 
made a claim, if any money had of been paid, it would have been forfeited due to the 
successful claim.
Mr C has suggested that if the policy had been found to have been misrepresented or mis-
sold then a fair outcome would be for Fairmead to use its own claims team to ensure the 
claim is promptly and fairly managed by its claims administrator. As I have explained above, 
the policy clearly explains Fairmead appoints D to deal with claims on its behalf. I wouldnt 
therefore look to direct Fairmead do anything different here.
We wouldnt usually expect Fairmead to review the day to day conduct of a claims 
handler/administrator on any given case and I wouldnt have said there was need for it to 
do so here over and above what it would normally do when a consumer makes direct contact 
with it. Ds actions are treated, by this service, as being made by Fairmead and therefore Mr 
C has the appropriate avenues available to him to complain about those if he is unhappy.
Mr C has also suggested that Fairmead should be directed that it is unable to enforce 
separate arrangements on solicitor firms and that I should direct that if it chooses to do so then these terms, unless agreed by Mr C or his appointed solicitor should be considered void 
and unenforceable.
This aspect goes to the heart of the claims complaints that two other ombudsmen here have 
considered in detail and provided findings on, so it is not something I am considering as part 
of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C has provided detailed reasons as to why he disagrees with my provisional findings. I 
wont list them all here however in summary he has said:
I havent taken the Consumer Rights Act 2015 properly into account
I have not defined my meaning of policy documentation, or have I recognised that 
they form part of the insurance contract
I havent taken into consideration what an ombudsman at this service has said in 
relation to one of the claims complaints he made, in respect of the standard terms 
and conditions Fairmead has sought to impose on solicitors
I havent taken into account what ICOBS Insurance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook says about delegation of responsibility
Fairmead did not provide any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of detailed points in response to my provisional findings. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this 
complaint, I focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than 
commenting on every issue in turn. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service. I'm not 
required to provide an answer or address every point specifically raised in delivering my 
decision.
I confirm I have read and carefully considered everything Mr C has said however Im 
satisfied with what Ive explained in my findings previously and, I have nothing further to add.
So, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Fairmead Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 Alison Gore
Ombudsman