DRN-4339963
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Countrywide Principal Services Limited (Countrywide) 
mis-sold income protection policies to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out income protection policies in 2018 alongside their mortgage on 
recommendation from their financial adviser. This was an advised sale. 
The adviser went through a number of different policies, some of which Mr and Mrs T agreed 
to and some which they said they didnt need. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to Countrywide and said they told their adviser they didnt need 
income protection policies. 
Countrywide responded and said the recommendations were made based on Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances and they agreed to the policies at the time. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T 
referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but found that the advice and recommendations 
given to Mr and Mrs T were suitable and so didnt think the policies had been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In summary they have 
said they did not want the policies and made it clear as in their experience and having heard 
from others, these types of policies rarely pay out. Mr and Mrs T say Mr T was off work and 
didnt claim on his policy which again supports that he wasnt aware that he had such a 
policy. He was surprised to learn that they had income protection policies and cancelled as 
soon as he realised.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why:
The relevant rules say that when a policy is sold during an advised sale, the seller 
must ensure it is suitable for the needs of the customer. 
Ive reviewed the available documentation and paperwork from the time of the sale. 
This includes a reasons why letter which sets out the discussion which took place 
about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, their finances and their protection needs. 
The letter explains why income protection policies were recommended and that Mr 
and Mrs T agreed to the policies. 
A number of needs and policies were discussed including life, critical illness and 
income protection. Mrs and Mrs T didnt think critical illness was important but they 
did think it was important to protect their income in the event that either of them were 
unable to work due to illness or injury. The letter goes on to detail the different 
deferred periods for both Mr and Mrs T based on their specific occupations taking 
into account any company sick pay. 
Having considered the above, I am satisfied that the policies were suitable and that 
Mr and Mrs T agreed to take them out as they provided the information about their 
employment to Countrywide to enable it to make a suitable recommendation.
Mr and Mrs T say they werent even aware they had these policies and this is 
supported by a phone call to the insurer and the fact that they cancelled in 2022 as 
soon as they realised they had been paying for income protection policies. Mr T says 
he didnt make a claim which supports the fact that he wasnt aware he had such a 
policy. I have carefully considered this and whilst I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs T are 
saying, it is possible that due to the passage of time, and the number of policies 
discussed at the time, the details might have been forgotten. Based on the 
contemporaneous written evidence from the time of the sale, Mr and Mrs T agreed to 
the policies in 2018 and this was confirmed in writing. I think the policy was suitable 
as it was affordable and the appropriate deferred periods were put in place. And so I 
dont think the polices were mis-sold.
My final decision. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman