DRN-3668477
The complaint
Mr A1 and Mrs A2 complain that Santander UK PLC (Santander) recorded markers about 
them on fraud prevention databases in connection with a mortgage application in their name.
They are represented by a solicitor.
What happened
In July 2019 a mortgage application was made to Santander for £315,000 over a term of 22 
and four months. The application was in Mr A1 and Mrs A2s names. Santander sent Mr A1 
and Mrs A2 a mortgage offer, but it went on decline the application and record adverse 
information about them on fraud prevention databases. 
Later, Mr A1 and Mrs A2 submitted a mortgage application to a different lender which was 
declined. They say they took advice from a solicitor who recommended that they complained 
to Santander. They did this in 2021. Mr A1 and Mrs A2 say they didnt know they could 
complain before that. They also went on to report the matter to the police.
Santander said it decided not to lend and applied the markers because it wasnt able to 
confirm the information Mr A1 and Mrs A2 provided about their income. It said it wouldnt 
remove the adverse information so Mr A1 and Mr A2 complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr A1 and Mrs A2 said (through their representative) they applied for the mortgage using a 
person that said they were a mortgage broker. However, it seems from what theyve told us 
that the person (Ill refer to as the broker) wasnt regulated to give mortgage advice by the 
relevant regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority. They say that any fraudulent information 
which may have been provided to Santander wasnt provided by or authorised by them. 
Initially they told us they gave the broker information about themselves for the application in 
person and paid him in cash. When they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
they said theyd lost a lot of that information. However, they provided screenshots of some of 
the information they sent their broker.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt recommend that Santander remove 
the markers. He considered the information Mr A1 and Mrs A2 said theyd given the broker 
and this included some of the documents that Santander had received. So he thought 
Santander based its decision on information they had provided. In the circumstances he 
didnt think Santander had made a mistake. He thought Santander had reasonable grounds 
to suspect it had received false information in support of the mortgage application. He didnt 
think that outcome was affected by the fact that Mr A1 and Mrs A2 didnt submit the 
information to Santander themselves. So he didnt recommend that Santander remove the 
markers.
Mr A1 and Mrs A2 remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. So their complaint has been passed to me to decide. They reiterated that they felt 
themselves to be victims of fraud and that they didnt submit fraudulent information to 
Santander themselves. Their representative said they dont know what information was 
provided to Santander by the broker, as that hadnt been provided to them. He also said he 
didnt think the screenshots our investigator referred to were conclusive.
After the complaint was passed to me to decide our investigator was able to speak to Mr A1 
directly about what happened. Mr A1 said he and Mrs A2 gave the broker identification 
documents and utility bills. They also filled in a form to get the mortgage. Mr A1 said they 
were planning on borrowing £280,000 against a property value of £350,000. They had a 
£70,000 deposit, and while they were surprised when Santanders mortgage offer was for 
more than £280,000 they werent concerned by this. 
Mr A1 said he earned around £900 each month at the time of the mortgage application (he 
provided payslips to support this) and that Mrs A2 earned between £600 and £800 a month. 
He told our investigator he thought theyd be able to afford the mortgage by working extra 
hours, as hed been working part time when the mortgage application was made. Mr A1 said 
they provided their income details to the broker to check their eligibility. When the broker 
came back with a mortgage offer they thought it must be affordable for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When the mortgage application was made in 2019 Santander considered the information 
and evidence it received in connection with it and carried out underwriting checks to try to 
confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether it wanted to lend. As Mr A1 
and Mrs A2 know, there was no obligation on Santander to lend money to them. It wasnt 
obliged to give reasons for refusing to do so either.
In order for Santander to apply the markers it needed to have clear, relevant and rigorous 
evidence of fraud  enough to enable it to confidently report the matter to the police or other 
authorities. It didnt need to be able to prove fraud, but it needed to reasonably suspect 
fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting dishonestly for 
financial gain.
Santander told us that when it tried to verify the information provided about Mr A1 and Mrs 
A2s income with a third party, it wasnt able to do so. So it went decline the application and 
record adverse information about them on fraud prevention databases. 
In circumstances where Santander couldnt verify the information provided in connection with 
a mortgage application I would expect it to carry out a further investigation before recording 
adverse information about the applicants on fraud prevention databases. I cant see that 
Santander did that in this case. 
Santander told us that it reviewed the mortgage application again after Mr A1 and Mrs A2 
complained in 2021. It still thought the markers it had applied were justified.
Mr A1 and Mrs A2 have been clear that they didnt make the application themselves. So they 
think its unfair that the markers should be applied against their names. They think the broker 
is responsible for the information provided. I understand the point theyve made. However, 
there seems to be no dispute that they paid the broker to make the mortgage application for 
them or that they gave the broker significant amounts of information for the application. 
Theres no dispute that at least part of what Santander was told was incorrect  including 
that Mr A1s and Mrs A2s income was presented as being much larger than was in fact the case. So Im persuaded that in broad terms the broker acted on Mr A1s and Mrs A2s 
behalf. The only thing that isnt clear is the extent to which Mr A1 and Mrs A2 knew that 
some of the information in the application wasnt correct.
In the mortgage application Santander was told that Mr A1 earned £42,000 each year, and 
Mrs A2 earned £35,000. It was provided with payslips for Mr A1 and Mrs A2 to support those 
incomes. The payslip Santander was provided with to show Mr A1s income in June 2019 
said his net pay that month was more than £2,550  significantly more than the net pay set 
out in the payslips he has recently provided us with for April and May 2019. 
The application also said that Mr A1 and Mrs A2 wanted to buy a house worth £366,000. It 
said they wanted to borrow £315,000 and that they had a £51,000 deposit. That contrasts to 
the information Mr A1 gave us recently. When he spoke to our investigator Mr A1 said he 
and Mrs A2 were wanted to borrow £280,000 against a property value of £350,000, and that 
they had a £70,000 deposit. Mr A1 said they were surprised when the mortgage offer was for 
more than £280,000 but werent concerned by this. I find that surprising. I think its unlikely 
that Mr A1 ad Mrs A2 would be willing to borrow money than they needed in circumstances 
where theyd have to pay interest on that money, when the lending would be secured against 
their home, and where the monthly repayments were to make up such a large proportion of 
their monthly income. Mr A1 and Mrs A2 have told us that they had a maximum combined 
monthly income of around £1,700 at the time of the mortgage application. The mortgage 
offer they were sent in July 2019 said their initial monthly payments were more than £1,400. 
I think this should have prompted them to question how affordable the mortgage was, and 
the information provided in connection with the mortgage. However, I cant see that they 
contacted Santander after they were sent the mortgage offer until they complained in 2021.
As set out above, Mr A1 and Mrs A2 are adamant that the broker used false information in 
the mortgage application without their permission or knowledge. I accept thats a possible 
explanation for what happened. Im conscious that its also possible that Mr A1 and Mrs A2 
knew that the broker had applied for a £315,000 mortgage for them using false information.
My role is to focus on what Santander did in this complaint. As I said above, I think it should 
have done more to investigate the information it had been given in mortgage application 
before it recorded adverse information about Mr A1 and Mrs A2 on fraud prevention 
databases. However, theres no dispute that Santander was given false information in the 
mortgage application that would have enabled Mr A1 and Mrs A2 to get a mortgage they 
couldnt afford. In the circumstances and having weighed up all the evidence and arguments 
very carefully, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Santander acted unreasonably 
when it decided to record the entries it did on the fraud databases. I can understand why 
Santander reasonably suspected Mr A1 and Mrs A2 of fraud in this complaint. It follows that I 
cant reasonably ask Santander to remove those entries now.
I understand that Mr A1 and Mrs A2 are frustrated that they havent been given a copy of all 
the information that was provided to Santander in connection with the mortgage application. I 
can understand why they want to see it given the impact of the markers on them. However, I 
understand why Santander has provided them with the amount of detail it did, and dont think 
it acted inappropriately on this point.
I appreciate that Mr A1 and Mrs A2 are unlikely to be happy with my decision, but for the 
reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman