DRN-3155395
The complaint
Mr I has complained about his motor insurer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited because 
after he had an accident it said his car had been modified. Skyfire then avoided Mr Is policy 
(treated it as though it had never existed) and, by association, declined his accident claim.
What happened
Mr I took out a policy with Skyfire in October 2020. He was asked if his car had any 
modifications and he said no. In December he had an accident and Skyfire found his car had 
after-market alloy wheels fitted  they were three inches larger than the manufacturers 
standard wheels. Skyfire said it would only have accepted cover for a car with wheels sized 
at no more than two inches above the manufacturers standard. So it said it was avoiding 
Mr Is cover, which also meant it wouldnt consider his claim. Mr I said he hadnt known the 
car was modified and, when Skyfire wouldnt change its position, he complained to us.
Our investigator felt Mr I hadnt taken reasonable care when arranging the policy. So she 
said Skyfires avoidance had been fair and reasonable. Mr I asked for an ombudsmans 
consideration. His complaint was passed to me and I issued the following provisional 
findings:
I intend to uphold this complaint. Thats because Im not persuaded Mr I failed to take 
reasonable care.
There is legislation which sets out the rights and obligations of both parties when arranging 
insurance. The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (the Act) 
requires a prospective policyholder to take reasonable care to not make any 
misrepresentation to the insurer when applying for cover. A policyholder would make a 
misrepresentation if, when applying for cover, they make a mistake in the detail they give or 
fail to answer an insurer's question correctly, because they didnt take reasonable care. 
If a misrepresentation is made which is a qualifying misrepresentation then the insurer will 
be allowed to take certain action. The misrepresentation made will be seen to be a qualifying 
one; if reasonable care wasnt taken by the prospective policyholder when giving an 
incorrect answer to a question and the insurer can show that if correct information had been 
given, it wouldnt have entered in to the insurance contract (or it would but only on different 
terms). 
When he was applying for the policy Skyfire asked Mr I if his car had any modifications. He 
said that it didn't. But Skyfire says that it treats the large after-market wheels which were on 
the car as a modification. And Skyfire has shown us evidence that if Mr I had told it the car 
had large after-market alloy wheels, it would have wanted to know more about them. Its also 
shown that if it had known about the size of the modified alloy wheels fitted to Mr Is car, it 
wouldnt have offered cover. So if Mr I failed to take reasonable care when answering 
Skyfires question about whether or not his car had any modifications, then hell be seen to 
have made a qualifying misrepresentation. Only in that circumstance is Skyfire allowed to 
avoid the policy.
Mr Is told us that he isn't particularly knowledgeable about cars and didn't know the wheels 
were anything other than standard. I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr I failed to 
take reasonable care when answering Skyfires question. I have no reasons to disbelieve 
Mr I that he doesn't have any particular specialist knowledge in cars and I havent seen that 
he was aware, perhaps via the purchase of the car, that it had been modified by having 
after-market alloy wheels fitted. I dont think alloy wheels, slightly larger than the 
manufacturers standard, are a feature of a car that an average driver should necessarily, 
immediately spot as likely non-standard modifications. So I don't think this is something Mr I 
would or should have realised he needed to bring to Skyfires attention when answering its 
question about modifications. As Im not persuaded that Mr I failed to take reasonable care 
when answering Skyfires question, I dont think a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred. 
Which means that Skyfires acts of avoiding Mr Is policy and refusing to deal with his claim 
were unfair and unreasonable.
I concluded my provisional decision by setting out my provisional awards. These included 
Skyfire reinstating Mr Is policy and paying him compensation.
In reply Skyfire sent details of the standard spec for Mr Is vehicle evidencing that the 
manufacturers standard wheels are 20 inches, not 23 inches as were the wheels fitted on 
Mr Is car at the time of the accident. It sent example photos of cars like Mr Is with standard 
and non-standard wheels fitted. It said the difference was obvious. Skyfire also noted Mr Is 
wheels were stamped with a name different to that of the car manufacturer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt what the standard spec for Mr Is car is. The issue for me was did Mr I likely 
know that his car had been modified by the addition of non-standard size wheels. 
The wheel manufacturers name, at best, shows the wheels werent made by the car 
manufacturer. But Im not sure most drivers would know whether or not their cars wheels 
were, as standard, made by the manufacturer of the car. And sometimes wheels need to be 
changed during the life of the car  so wheels bearing a different name to the car 
manufacturer wouldnt, necessarily, cause most people to think their car had been modified.
When Skyfire sent the example photos, it said: you will notice a clear difference with the 
wheels. I can see the wheels are different in colour. Other than that I cant tell that one set 
of wheels are larger than the other. And I say that from the perspective of me having closely 
compared the photos side-by-side, whilst specifically looking to see if the wheels are 
different sizes. If I cant see a clear difference in that context  Im certain your average 
consumer, looking at a car with larger than average wheels, during or after purchase, 
wouldnt know the car had been modified. Mr I says he had no idea the wheels on his car 
were anything other than standard. I said provisionally I accept that. And Skyfires evidence 
sent in reply has, in my view, only served to support that finding.
Putting things right
Skyfires unfair and unreasonable actions have had quite a number of consequences for 
Mr I, including that he had to take out new cover at a much greater premium. So Skyfires 
going to have to do a number of things to put matters right, including paying Mr I some 
compensation. However, my compensation award doesnt take into account the fact that Mr I 
has had to borrow money to complete repairs  thats because I dont know if the claim 
would have succeeded if Skyfire hadnt avoided the cover. I require Skyfire to:Remove the record of the avoidance from its own and any industry database.
Reinstate Mr Is policy until the date he took out new cover elsewhere, marking the 
policy, at that time, as cancelled by him, and without charging a cancellation fee.
Consider Mr Is claim for his damaged car, as Mr I was left in a position of having to 
repair his car, any settlement due will have to be based on repairing the car and take into 
account the costs Mr I had to pay for the repairs. If theres any concern about whether 
repairs were accident related or not, a reasonable benefit of doubt should be given to 
Mr I, as he clearly mitigated his losses by getting the car repaired.
If those repairs included the necessary replacement of the alloy wheels, this cost will still 
have to be settled for under the policy. But if Mr I replaced them just to ensure they were 
in line with the manufacturers standard, their cost will not have to be settled for.
Pay interest* on any settlement made to Mr I for car repairs in line with the interest rate 
Mr I was charged for by the credit cards, which I understand he used to fund the work  
subject to poof of payment and interest rates being provided by him.
Reimburse, subject to proof from Mr I of his new cover, any additional cost for the new 
cover compared to the cost of the policy he had with Skyfire, until the current policy 
expires. Plus interest* at a rate of 8% per year from the date the additional sum or sums 
were paid by Mr I until settlement is made. When the current policy expires and Mr I 
renews he wont have to declare the avoidance so his premium will no longer be 
negatively affected by it.
Pay Mr I £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair and 
unreasonable avoidance.
*Interest is paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. If Skyfire considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr I, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr I a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman