DRN-3969683
The complaint
Mr B complains about Covea Insurance plcs decision to decline a claim made under his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr B has been represented by a family member in making this complaint. For ease of 
reference, Ill refer only to Mr B below.
Mr B has pet insurance underwritten by Covea which covers his pet dog. He originally took 
out the policy in 2019.
He made a claim  for around £140 - in May 2022 after their vet had treated the dog for 
hypersensitivity disorder.
Covea rejected the claim on the basis that the treatment was for a condition that had first 
presented (in 2018) before the policy was taken out. They pointed out that the policy terms 
said that pre-existing conditions would not be covered.
Mr B wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Covea. He said the treatment in 2018 
had been for a completely different part of the dogs body and wasnt related to the issue in 
2022.
However, Covea maintained their stance. They said theyd made some enquiries with the 
treating vet, who couldnt confirm that the symptoms in 2018 and 2022 werent a result of the 
same condition.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into and thought Covea had done 
nothing wrong. She thought the evidence suggested an on-going condition  the dog suffers 
with allergies  throughout the period between 2018 and the date of the latest claim.
Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view on the case, I issued a provisional decision. 
This gave both Mr B and Covea an opportunity to provide further information or evidence 
and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue this, my final decision on the case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be absolutely clear from the outset that I agree with our investigator that the 
veterinary evidence strongly suggests that the allergic reaction the dog was treated 
for in 2022 was linked to the condition treated in 2018.
The treatment may have related to different areas of the dogs body, but it is 
treatment for hypersensitivity or allergy.
Mr Bs representative said themselves that the dog suffers from allergies. Coveas 
expert said the episodes between 2018 and 2022 were essentially for the same 
condition. Mr Bs own vet didnt contradict this opinion when specifically asked.
Im also satisfied that the policy terms clearly state that Covea will not cover the cost 
of treatment for pre-existing conditions.
In principle then, Im satisfied that, all other things being equal, Covea would be 
entitled to decline the claim in 2022 on the basis that the treatment claimed was for a 
pre-existing condition which first presented in 2018, before Mr B first took out the 
policy.
However, the situation is considerably more complicated than that because Mr B had 
a claim  for just over £300 - for treatment for the same condition, settled in June 
2021. That was around 6-8 weeks before Mr B renewed his policy.
The policy terms and conditions document starts with the following paragraphs:
4Paws pet insurance Life Premium provides cover for veterinary treatment 
costs, due to illness or injury, for the lifetime of your pet. However, we do not 
cover any illness or injury (including clinical sign(s)) which happened before 
cover started.
Cover is annually renewable, provided we offer and you accept our renewal 
invitation. Your pet will benefit from continuous cover, including costs for 
recurring conditions. Once renewed the maximum limits for the cover selected 
will be available again.
It is important to note policy terms and conditions can change over time. Your 
premiums may increase due to factors such as your pets age, claims history 
and our view of the future costs of providing cover.
In this case, I think the wording of those paragraphs has two main implications.
One, when Mr B renewed the policy in August 2021, his decision to renew will 
undoubtedly have been based  at least in some part  on the assumption that 
Covea would continue to cover the condition for which the claim was made (and 
settled) in June 2021, just prior to renewal.
That claim related to allergies, so Mr B might have reasonably expected continued 
cover for allergies in the year after renewal.
Two, Mr Bs premium at renewal will have been calculated taking into account his 
claims history  including the claim made in June 2021, just prior to renewal.
In other words, he will have paid a premium which reflected the on-going risk, 
calculated with the previous claims in mind. It would then be odd  and unfair - to 
decline a claim arising from a risk which had presumably been factored into the 
premium required at renewal.I am aware that the broker who sold the policy switched underwriters in 2022. Mr B 
was informed of this in the renewal letter he received in August 2022.
Covea may suggest that the previous underwriter made an error when they accepted 
the June 2021 claim. And that it should have been rejected on the basis that the 
claim was for treatment of a pre-existing condition dating back to 2018.
They may also suggest that they shouldnt effectively pay the price for that error on 
the part of the previous underwriter by being required to settle the most recent claim.
However, I have to look at this case in terms of fairness to Mr B. He renewed his 
policy  accepting the terms and the premium offered by Covea  on the basis that 
treatment for the same condition across policy years would be continuous.
And so, he had a reasonable expectation that the cover for allergy-related treatments 
would continue, given that it had been covered in 2021.
I should also say that Covea agreed to take over the underwriting of this policy from 
the previous underwriter, presumably on the basis that was commercially 
advantageous to themselves.
And in taking it over, there must  or should - have been an acceptance that any 
errors or glitches in the previous handling of these policies came as part of that 
package.
For those reasons, Im minded to require Covea to settle the May 2022 claim. And to 
accept that cover continued  for that condition and any others  through the full 
policy year (up until the renewal date in August 2022).
I suspect there will be no further claims now for the period between May 2022 and 
August 2022. But if there were any new claims for that period, Covea should, of 
course, consider them in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
And to be clear, Covea should not decline any claims for treatment for allergies in 
that brief period (May to August 2022) on the basis that the condition was pre-
existing.
I dont know whether Mr B chose to renew his policy in August 2022. If he did, then 
he would have done so in full knowledge of the fact that Covea wouldnt cover any 
claims after that point for treatment for allergies related to the pre-existing condition.
And so, Im satisfied that, after August 2022, Covea would be entitled to rely on the 
policy terms relating to pre-existing conditions to decline any claim relating to 
treatment for the allergies and hypersensitivity which first manifested itself in the dog 
in 2018.
In summary, Im minded to conclude that, because Mr B had certain (justified) 
expectations after the claim was settled in June 2021, Covea should cover Mr Bs 
dogs treatment (for allergies / hypersensitivity) for the policy year (August 2021-
August 2022) after the next renewal.
But after August 2022, when the policy was due for renewal again, Covea would 
have no obligation to cover treatment for conditions related to those treated originally 
in 2018.Finally, Ill address the issue raised by Mr Bs representative about compensation for 
her trouble and upset. She has told us that the issues around the declined claim have 
caused her considerable stress and inconvenience. And she thinks Covea should 
compensate her for her trouble and upset.
As our investigator has explained, the representative is not a customer of Covea and 
isnt a legitimate complainant according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules, 
which govern the way our service operates.
And that means we cant award compensation for her trouble and upset. There is no 
discretion for us to ignore those rules whatever the circumstances of the particular 
case.
And on that basis, I said I was minded to require Covea settle in full the claim made in May 
2022  and to consider, in line with the policy terms, any claim made for treatment in the 
period May to August 2022.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Covea havent responded to my provisional decision at all.
Mr Bs representative responded to say Mr B agrees with the outcome in principle. But shes 
said again that she finds it hard to accept that she cant be compensated for her trouble and 
upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to conclude that Coveas non-response to my provisional decision means they 
either agree with it or dont have any further information, evidence or argument that might 
affect it.
Mr B also agrees with the outcome, so I have no reason to change my mind about that. 
I completely understand what Mr Bs representative tells us about how these events have 
impacted her  and why. And I understand her frustration that there isnt a means for her to 
be compensated for her trouble and upset.
Im not sure it will be any consolation, but she has my sympathy. And I hope shell 
understand that we have heard what shes said. However, that doesnt alter the fact that we 
dont have any discretion at all to award compensation for her trouble and upset  for the 
reasons weve explained previously.  
Putting things right
I said in my provisional decision that I was minded to require Covea to settle the May 2022 
claim  and to consider any further claims for treatment between May and August 2022. And 
I explained why Id come to that conclusion.
The response to my provisional decision hasnt given me any reason to change my mind 
about that. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Covea Insurance plc must settle in full the claim made in May 2022  and consider, in line 
with the policy terms, any claim made for treatment in the period May to August 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman