DRN-3537635
The complaint
Mr V and Ms P complain about how U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG handled and 
settled their claim on their property owners policy. 
While the policy is in joint names of both Mr V and Ms P, for ease of reading Ill refer to Mr V 
throughout. 
What happened
Mr V had a property owners insurance policy with NIG for a property he owns and rents out. 
The property consists of three flats.
In June 2020 there was a storm that caused damage to the property and led to water ingress 
in Flat 1 and Flat 2 of the building. Mr V made a claim on the policy. 
NIG accepted the claim however it took some time to settle as there were some 
disagreements over the settlement offered. During this time the tenants in Flat 1 were moved 
out into alternative accommodation and the tenants in Flat 2 left due to the conditions at the 
property.
Over the months that followed NIG offered a final settlement that included the insured 
repairs,  loss of rent for some of the time the flats werent habitable or occupied, council tax 
that Mr V had to cover and additional heating costs.
However Mr V remained unhappy with the settlement for a number of reasons including:
Parts of the claim for repairs had been repudiated due to NIG saying they were for 
maintenance or amounted to betterment, which Mr V didnt agree with. 
NIG agreed to pay for loss of rent for Flat 2 after the tenants vacated and until he had 
new tenants in place, and he thought the same should apply to Flat 1.
He thought NIG should pay for the cost of having to re-advertise the flats after the 
tenants moved out as this was due to the claim being delayed. 
NIG had offered to pay 8% interest on some amounts, but he thought it should be 
around 17% as this reflected the interest on his credit card that he used to pay for the 
repairs.
The policy provided the option of using an arbitration service but this had been 
denied to him when he requested it. 
Mr V made a complaint to NIG and it upheld it in part. It agreed to pay some additional costs 
for electricity, council tax and loss of rent, and offered £700 compensation for the poor 
service it and its agents had provided. However it didnt change its position on the 
repudiated items, the interest, arbitration or costs for advertising the property. Unhappy with 
this response, Mr V brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
thought NIG had offered a fair settlement and had applied the terms of the policy fairly in 
relation to the arbitration service.
Mr V didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has provided a vast amount of information as part of this complaint. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not responded to every point he has raised individually. Instead Ive 
focussed on those I consider to be key to my outcome. However I want to reassure Mr V that 
I have read and considered everything he has submitted.
Variations invoice
A key part of whats left in dispute is the variations invoice. This is additional work that was 
found to be needed when the approved work was undertaken. Mr V thinks these costs 
should be covered under the policy, as they were necessary to ensure the property was 
suitably restored and to prevent the same problems from occurring again.
When settling a claim an insurer is expected to put the insured back in the position they were 
in before the loss occurred. If before the loss there were works that were needed in order to 
maintain the property, or to make a loss less likely, then this service wouldnt expect the 
insurer to pay for these on top of claim costs. As these would have needed to be paid for 
even if the loss hadnt happened. 
Mr V has pointed out that some work that is needed only came to light due to the storm and 
subsequent damage. However I dont agree this means its fair or reasonable to ask NIG to 
pay for these repairs. As the end result is that it puts Mr V in a better position than he was 
before the claim, which isnt what the policy provides for. It is for Mr V to ensure his property 
is maintained, meets the required standards for an EPC certificate and that he takes 
reasonable steps to mitigate against further damage. And this falls outside of policy cover. 
Mr V refers to his duty of mitigation under the policy. And I agree that in order for the policy 
terms to apply he has a duty to ensure he mitigates any potential losses. However this 
doesnt mean that any mitigation work itself is automatically covered under the policy. It is for 
Mr V to ensure that his property is maintained and that losses are mitigated to make the 
need to claim less likely. And these arent costs this service would reasonably expect the 
insurer to cover, even after a claim. 
The items on the variations invoice all represent costs that relate to additional work that is 
needed for the maintenance of the property or to meet mitigation requirements. I therefore 
think NIG has acted fairly by declining these costs.
Mr V has also said that while he accepts maintenance work is excluded under the policy, 
NIG has referred to both maintenance and betterment, which isnt excluded. If, at the point of 
a claim, work is required to a property in order to ensure it is well maintained, and after the 
claim this work is completed, then this would mean the property was in a better position than 
it had been before the claim. So I dont agree that NIGs reference to betterment means that 
the items in the variation invoice should be covered. 
ArbitrationMr V has asked throughout the claim and complaint whether he could trigger the clause in 
the policy that allows a dispute to be referred for arbitration. The clause states as follows:
If any differences arise as to the amount to be paid under this Policy (liability being 
otherwise admitted) such difference will be referred to an arbitrator in England who will 
decide the matter in dispute according to English law and will be appointed by the parties in 
accordance with the relevant English statutory provisions for the time being in force. Where 
any difference is to be referred to arbitration under this Condition, the making of an Award 
will be a condition precedent of any right of action against Us.
NIG has said because the dispute in this case relates to claim liability, rather than amount, 
the clause wouldnt apply.
Ive considered this and I think NIG has applied the clause fairly. The clause specifically 
states that it applies based on liability being otherwise admitted. In this case, the items 
outstanding relate to matters than NIG has deemed outside of policy cover. So where it 
hasnt admitted liability. I therefore think that its acted fairly by saying that the clause would 
not apply in this case.
Loss of rent
NIG has paid loss of rent for both Flat 1 and 2 for different periods during the damage. For 
Flat 1 it paid from the time the tenants moved out of the premises in November 2020 until 
the work to repair the damage was completed. For Flat 2 it paid from the date the tenants 
moved until the date new tenants occupied the property. 
The policy covers loss of rent as follows:
Loss of Rent
If any property owned by You or for which You are responsible sustains Damage, for which 
liability has been admitted under Sections 1 or 2, causing an interruption of the Business 
which results in loss of Rent Receivable We will indemnify You for the:
a amount by which the Rent Receivable during the Indemnity Period, as a result of Damage, 
falls short of the Rent Receivable which would have been received during the Indemnity 
Period had no Damage occurred
Based on this I think the approach NIG has taken to loss of rent payments for Flat 1 is fair 
and in line with the policy terms. As it paid for the rent that wasnt received as a result of the 
damage. Once the damage is rectified, it is then for Mr V to market the property and find 
suitable tenants. Whenever a tenancy ends, this will always cause a delay and a period of 
time where rent wont be received. And the time this takes can vary due to many different 
factors. But this time doesnt relate directly to the insured damage, so wouldnt reasonably 
be covered under the policy. 
I appreciate the fact it has varied its approach for Flat 2 has caused some confusion. I would 
have expected NIG to have taken the same approach as Flat 1 and paid loss of rent from 
when the tenants moved out, or offered alternative accommodation from when they needed 
to move out due to their allergies and circumstances. However as it has accepted this should 
have been done but wasnt, instead it has paid from the date they vacated up until new 
tenants were in place. I agree with NIG that this wouldnt be covered under the policy. And 
this is why the same wouldnt apply to Flat 1. However, I think this is a fair offer in the 
circumstances. And this amounts to more than I would have directed had it not offered the gesture of goodwill and more than it is obliged to do under the policy. I therefore wont ask it 
to pay anything further.
Advertising costs
Mr V also thinks NIG should pay for the cost of advertising and re-letting the flats, as he says 
he wouldnt have had to do so if it hadnt been for the insured event.
While I appreciate Mr Vs frustration at having to pay these costs, I dont agree they are 
claim related. While he may have had to pay them sooner than he might have done had the 
damage not occurred, the nature of renting property is that tenancies end and new tenants 
have to be sought. So at whatever time this happened, these costs would need to be 
covered. This service would only direct NIG to cover costs where there has been a direct 
financial loss. And I dont agree the advertising costs amount to this. 
Interest
NIG has paid simple interest at 8% on applicable amounts as part of its settlement. However 
Mr V has said that this should be around 17% and 23% to reflect the interest on his credit 
accounts. 
This service generally considers 8% simple interest to be a fair award on amounts paid, 
where there is a delay in reimbursement. However there are times where wed ask a 
business to pay additional interest where its been evidenced that this was a necessary cost 
to its customer due to unnecessary delays. In those cases wed need to see clear evidence 
that interest had been accrued, above 8%, on direct claim costs and these were only 
accrued due to the claim and the customers inability to pay before interest was added.
While Mr V has submitted ample information about the claim, including details of interest 
charged on his credit accounts,  he has provided nothing to show that due to the claim he 
has had to pay additional interest charges specifically on claim costs that he hasnt been 
able to pay off before interest applies. When challenging costs the insurer has agreed to pay 
under a claim, the onus is on the customer to show that these havent covered their losses 
and I dont agree Mr V has done this here. Due to the fact this hasnt been evidenced, I think 
NIG has acted fairly by offering 8% interest on the applicable amounts. Should Mr V wish to 
present further evidence he should do so to NIG in the first instance. 
Compensation
Throughout this claim, I agree NIG and its agents havent always provided a good service. 
There have been periods of time when little progress has been made and Mr V has had to 
send numerous emails to follow up the work. I also think NIG hasnt communicated claim 
outcomes clearly with Mr V which has led to confusion around the settlement and why some 
items were covered and others not. 
NIG has offered £700 compensation to apologies for delays and poor service, and this is in 
line with what I would have directed it to pay if it hadnt made an offer. I therefore think this is 
fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr V and Ms Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman