DRN-2443415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly rejected their claim under a 
buildings insurance policy.
Both Mr A and his wife are named policyholders on their Covea policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr A, Ill refer only to Mr A from here onward.
What happened
Mr A had home insurance with Covea. In April 2020, he discovered a leak from the bathroom 
which damaged the kitchen ceiling, wall, floor, and underfloor heating. He says he had the 
shower resealed, however this did not stop the leak. He contacted Covea to make a claim 
under his home insurance.
Covea asked Mr A to appoint an expert to examine the leak, identify the problem, and 
provide an estimate for repairs. Mr A did this, but it took some time so Covea also appointed 
its own expert (B) to visit Mr As home and carry out an inspection. In the meantime, Mr A 
got two more quotes for repairs from local builders.
Covea rejected Mr As claim. It said Bs report showed the damage was caused by a lack of 
sealant and grout around the shower which had occurred gradually over time. As such, 
Covea said the water damage was not covered by Mr As policy. Mr A was unhappy with 
Coveas response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded that Covea could rely on the policy exclusion to reject Mr As claim and thought 
Covea should carry out further Trace and Access work. She recommended Covea reinstate 
the claim and continue investigating it.
Covea disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is whether Mr As home insurance policy covers the water damage in his 
home. Ive reviewed his policy. Information about leaks is at Section A of the policy booklet 
(Your Buildings Cover). This sets out what is and isnt covered.
The policy covers Water leaking from any fixed tank, domestic appliance or pipe. 
However, Covea rejected Mr As claim based on a term on page 16 of his policy booklet. 
Under the heading What we cant cover you for, the policy listed Loss or damage caused 
by not using the correct or enough sealant and grout, or the sealant and grout failing over 
time.
Section A of the policy also covers accidental damage. This is defined as Sudden, 
unexpected damage where the cause can be determined. Accidental damage doesnt 
include damage caused by wear and tear or anything else that happens over time. This 
section gives the same not using the correct or enough sealant or grout exclusion as 
before.
So the key question is, what was the source of the leak? Ive read the various reports 
provided by Covea and Mr A to try to understand this.
Bs report, following his inspection on 23 May 2020, concluded the cause of damage was a 
deteriorated shower seal. He also noted that the bathroom wall sealant had failed and the 
grouting to floor tiles was missing. B was clear that the damage is long term.
Ive reviewed the three quotes provided by Mr A. Ive looked specifically at what they say 
about the source of the leak:
Builder 1 (9 May). This was the original report Mr A sent to Covea. It says, Main 
bathroom shower cubicle has been damaged from the shower leak which will be 
fixed when the tiles are taken off but gave no more details.
Builder 2 (14 May). The first cost item listed was repair leak by removing wall tiles 
around 6/7sqm but the quote gave no more details. 
Builder 3 (11 June). The quote mentioned the existing leak from shower pipework 
set into the wall but gave no more details.
I dont think the quotes from Mr As builders offer any concrete evidence for the source of the 
leak, other than saying its behind the shower. Bs report is more detailed, and his findings 
seem to be supported by the photos provided by both Covea and Mr A. The damage evident 
in the photos  the bottom corner of the shower, failed sealant, and lack of grouting on tiles  
seem to indicate long-term damage rather than a sudden, unexpected event.
Having said that, our investigator asked for Bs comments about Mr As builders belief that 
there was a problem behind the shower tiles. B said he would expect to see more damage if 
the main leak was from the shower. However, he also said: I did recommend to the 
customer that further trace and access works were required and I feel that there were 
perhaps two separate issues, one from the leak at the shower and the deteriorated sealant 
around the shower area.
This suggestion of two issues is supported by Mr As initial report of the problem. Coveas 
internal note from 24 April 2020 says: [Mr A] initially thought it was the sealant therefore had 
it all re-sealed. However, since then the problem still remains. B said the sealant had been 
replaced before his visit, which backs up Mr As report. Coveas file note from 18 June 2020 
says: [B] are not saying that the shower valve has not failed but the damage is because of 
the failed sealant.
I dont think Covea has done enough to determine the cause or origin of the leak so I dont 
think it can fairly reject Mr As claim at this stage. I think it should carry out more work to 
trace the source of the leak, as B suggested. Mr As policy schedule shows he has Trace 
and Access cover (Section A: well pay the costs for finding the source of the damage up 
to £10,000. This also includes the cost for any resulting repairs to floors, walls and ceilings) 
so Im satisfied hes covered for this work.
I know this has been a very difficult situation for Mr A and his wife, particularly given their 
personal circumstances and health conditions. Im aware that my decision doesnt fully 
resolve the matter and Im sorry about that. However, the evidence suggests there might be 
two leaks. Mr As policy might cover damage from one but not the other. So I think there needs to be further investigation to confirm exactly what the problem is. This will tell Covea 
whether Mr A is covered for the damage that has been caused. 
I appreciate the constraints of the current lockdown, nevertheless I expect Covea to get this 
matter resolved as soon as possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Covea to reinstate Mr As claim 
and investigate the source of the leak under the Trace and Access cover in Mr As policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman