DRN-3018425
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
September 2009 to protect Mr Ss mortgage. The MPPI was paid for by way of a monthly 
premium and provided a benefit of £550 in the event of unemployment or sickness or 
disability. Mr S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman - to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling the MPPI to Mr S, Nationwide shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it 
clear the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mr Ss agreement to take it out. Mr S 
says that the policy wasnt properly explained to him and he was told he had to have it.  
As the MPPI was arranged during a meeting I dont know what was discussed. So, Ive 
considered Mr Ss comments alongside what I know in general about how Nationwide sold 
PPI at the time.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any paperwork that wouldve been completed during 
the sale. This is unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place so long ago. 
However, based on my knowledge of how mortgage PPI was sold I think its likely Mr S 
wouldve had to complete some paperwork for the PPI to be set up.  I also wouldve 
expected the conversations with the representative to reflect the details within any 
paperwork Mr S was given. And if Mr S wasnt sure about the cover, I wouldve expected 
him to query it before agreeing to the cover. 
So, based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr S knew at the time 
that the MPPI was optional and he decided to take it. But I can understand why he might not 
recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago. 
Nationwide didnt provide Mr S with advice to take out the MPPI policy. This means it 
shouldve given him clear information about the policy so that he could make a
proper choice about whether to take it out.
I dont know what steps Nationwide took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information wouldve 
changed Mr Ss decision. I think hed still have bought it and Ill explain why.
From what I can see it seems Mr S was eligible for the MPPI as met the basic requirements 
of the policy.
Looking at Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt have been affected by
any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual employment
arrangements. So, there was nothing to stop him claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed 
needed to.
Mr S says he wouldve received six months full sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer. The policy wouldve paid out if Mr S was off work due to accident or sickness. And 
it would have provided cover if he was made redundant. This cover wouldve paid out 
alongside his employer benefits, and for up to 24 months had Mr S needed it to. This is 
substantially longer than his employee benefits. The policy also wouldve allowed Mr S to 
use any employee benefits to cover other everyday living expenses. Mr S has also referred 
to savings he had at the time, but the MPPI wouldve allowed him to preserve these savings. 
So, it seems Mr S wouldve benefited from the cover provided by the policy. 
Mr Ss mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was secured 
on his home. So, the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been serious for 
him. I think having the security that the repayments wouldve been made if Mr S was unable 
to work or unwell wouldve been important to him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr S. The policys premiums were 
paid monthly, so he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
So, based on everything Ive seen I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when selling 
Mr S this MPPI policy. I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, but I hope my decision 
clearly sets out my reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman