DRN-3445856
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that he couldnt make a deposit via an ATM at his local Halifax branch.
What happened
Mr L went to his local Halifax branch intending to make a deposit into his current account via 
an ATM. However, when Mr L arrived at the branch, he found that the ATM wasnt able to 
accept deposits at that time. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ls complaint. They acknowledged that Mr L hadnt been able to make a 
deposit via an ATM as hed wanted to and explained that this was because when a branch 
closes for a period of time - which this branch had due to unforeseen circumstances - that 
its Halifaxs policy to remove the deposit feature from ATMs until the branch has reopened. 
Halifax apologised to Mr L for the inconvenience hed incurred and made a payment of £150 
to him by way of compensation.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, and felt that Halifax should take steps to 
ensure that deposits could always be received via ATM. So, he referred his complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly towards Mr L, and so they didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr L might have been frustrated to have gone to his local Halifax 
branch to make a deposit via an ATM only to find that he was unable to do so. And I note 
that both Mr L and Halifax have confirmed that Mr L has made several similar complaints 
about this matter previously.
Im aware that Mr L would like this service to instruct Halifax to change its policies to ensure 
that he is able to make deposits via an ATM at any time moving forwards. But this service 
isnt a regulatory body, and so it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business to 
amend its operating policies as Mr L would like us to here.
Additionally, speaking generally, Halifaxs policy in this regard  which is essentially to 
prevent the depositing of money into a branch via an ATM at times when that branch is 
unstaffed  doesnt seem unreasonable to me. I say this because I feel that preventing the 
depositing of money into an ATM machine at a time when no branch staff are present to 
process that money, and when it would therefore remain in the ATM machine where it might 
potentially be at risk, seems to be a sensible and reasonable policy to me.
It's also notable that Halifax, in their correspondence with Mr L, have explained their policy in 
this regard to Mr L, and have also explained that Mr L can make a deposit into his Halifax 
account at a post office counter, if the ATM at the branch isnt accepting deposits at that 
time.
Again, Halifaxs position here seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that by explaining 
this matter to Mr L, and by providing what appears to be a viable alternative solution to him, 
that Halifax have listened to and considered Mr Ls concerns and that they have tried to help 
him find an alternative means of making a deposit into his account if hes unable to do so via 
Halifaxs ATM. And this is what this service would expect of Halifax in these circumstances.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate Mr Ls frustration here, I dont feel that Halifax 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him in the manner which Mr L contends, and it 
therefore follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any 
further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting here, but I hope hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman