DRN-2872945
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt 
with a claim under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted Fairmead to make a claim when water entered their home. 
Fairmead appointed a surveyor to assess the claim. A few months later, Mr S and Mrs S 
complained to Fairmead because they were unhappy with how the claim was progressing. 
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to deal with the claim and gave Mr S and Mrs S £150 
compensation.
A few months later, Mr S and Mrs S complained again because they were still concerned 
about the progress of the claim and that they had been in alternative accommodation for an 
extended period of time. When Fairmead replied it said there had been issues with the claim, 
including that a contractor hadnt installed a damp-proof membrane so the newly fitted floor 
had to be uplifted for it to be installed. Due to further delays, Mr S and Mrs S then moved 
back into their home a few months later than expected. Fairmead offered a further £350 
compensation for the issues and distress caused.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. While the complaint was with this service, 
Fairmead offered £250 for a roof repair as a gesture of goodwill. When our investigator 
issued his view, he said that there had been a range of issues with the claim. He thoughts 
Fairmeads offer for the roof repair was fair in the circumstances. However, he said there 
had been a range of delays with the claim and that Fairmead should pay an additional £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As Fairmead didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead has accepted that there were issues with how the claim was dealt with. The main 
issue for me to consider is what is a reasonable amount of compensation in the 
circumstances. I understand that Fairmead has paid the £250 for the roof repair, which it 
offered as a gesture of good will. 
Having looked at what happened, I think there were a number of issues, including:
Having to uplift the floor again because a damp proof membrane hadnt been installed.
Because of issues earlier in the claim a new contractor was appointed to oversee it, but 
there was still a lengthy delay before works were able to progress.
Communication issues with one of the contractors, which meant an agreement had to be 
put in place to ensure Mr S and Mrs S received weekly updates so they knew how the 
claim was progressing.
Issues with drying the property and the storage of items that seems to have led to mould 
growth.
A date was agreed when Mr S and Mrs S could return to their home but, due to issues 
with their claim, this was delayed by about three months.
Im also aware that while the claim was ongoing, Mrs S was pregnant. As a result of the 
delays in completing the work, Mr S and Mrs S were only able to move back into their home 
shortly before the birth. This meant Mr S and Mrs S had a much more limited time in which 
to ensure their home was ready for the baby.  This seems to have caused them considerable 
anxiety and concern.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think Fairmead should pay Mr S and Mrs S an 
additional £500 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays and handling of their claim. 
Mr S and Mrs S were also concerned about additional electricity costs due to the works 
taking place in their home. From what Ive seen, Fairmead has agreed to pay the electricity 
costs, subject to Mr S and Mrs S providing evidence of the additional costs. If this has not 
already happened, Fairmead should ensure it pays these costs when it receives the 
evidence.
  
Putting things right
Fairmead should pay an additional £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and pay for any additional electricity costs if it hasnt done so already, subject to it 
receiving suitable evidence.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr S and Mrs S an additional £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them by the handling of this claim.
Pay Mr S and Mrs Ss additional electricity costs if it hasnt already done so, subject to it 
receiving suitable evidence.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman