DRN-4036884
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr K took out recently with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
There are two main issues to the complaint: these are;
Barclays released the mortgage funds late, causing him to incur late completion 
penalties; and
Barclays didnt tell him the property he was buying had been down-valued.
Barclays has offered to compensate Mr K for his late completion penalties, and pay him 
£200 compensation. Mr K has rejected this offer, saying hes paid too much for the property 
and lost out on the opportunity to apply for a £3,000 bonus on his help-to-buy ISA savings.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 7 February 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr K and Barclays Im also 
aware that the current investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr K being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main 
points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr K agreed to buy a 25% share in a property for £65,000; he applied through a 
broker for a Barclays mortgage of just under £16,000. Before issuing its mortgage 
offer, Barclays obtained a valuation, which came back as £235,000 for the full 
property, which valued Mr Ks 25% share at £58,250. Barclays didnt tell Mr K or his 
broker, but simply issued the mortgage offer. Then, on the day the purchase was due 
to complete, Mr Ks solicitor contacted Barclays to say the mortgage funds hadnt 
arrived. 
Barclays rushed through the release of funds, albeit a day late, which meant Mr K 
incurred around £1,100 in late completion penalties. At the same time the down-
valuation was revealed. 
Our investigator thought Barclays settlement offer was fair. She said that the 
valuation was solely for Barclays use and it was under no obligation to disclose it. Mr 
K asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to a 
different conclusion from our investigator. By issuing this provisional decision, Im 
giving both parties the opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
On the first element of the complaint, Barclays accepts it failed to ensure the 
mortgage funds were released on time, so its entirely right that it should compensate 
Mr K for the impact  wither financial or otherwise  of the delay. The offer it has 
made, to reimburse his late completion penalties and pay him £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, is fair, as far as it goes. But theres more to consider 
here.
Our investigator is correct when she says that the valuation is prepared solely for the 
lenders benefit; thats the position in law. But it has for many years been standard 
practice for lenders to supply a copy of the valuation to the applicant(s). Thats why 
the mortgage offer Mr K received from Barclays included a narrative saying it would 
send it to him separately. Not only that, Barclays own website extols the benefits of 
doing so, including preventing the applicant from paying too much. It uses the phrase 
buying with your head, not your heart.
What Barclays omission has done is deny Mr K the opportunity to buy with his head. 
So I have to think about the impact of that; its called the but for test, where the 
question posed is What would have happened but for the business error/omission.
Mr K believes hes paid too much for his 25% share, and I understand why he would 
think that. But its important to remember that the purpose of the valuation first of all 
is to enable a lender to assess how much it is willing to lend against the security the 
property provides. Notwithstanding the messages on Barclays website, a valuation is 
not intended to be a validation of the price that has been agreed between seller and 
buyer. 
Also, even if Mr K had received a copy of the valuation when it was first issued, it 
cant be assumed that he would automatically have been successful in negotiating a 
lower price for his share. Proportionally, the down value was quite significant  more 
than 10%. So whilst Mr K should at least have been given the opportunity to 
negotiate with his seller, I have no evidence before me on which I could safely 
conclude, on the balance of probabilities (the test our rules require me to apply) that 
his seller would have agreed to sell at a lower price than had already been agreed.
Put all of that together, and Im not persuaded that Mr Ks claim for what he considers 
the excess he paid, or the savings bonus hed have been eligible to apply for on a 
property with a full value less than £250,000, can fairly succeed. However, I full 
appreciate that the loss of opportunity, and the ongoing uncertainty about what might 
have been, weighs heavily with Mr K, adding to the overall sense of unease he feels 
about what has happened. For that, I consider an additional award of compensation 
is justified. The sum I have in mind, over and above the £200 already offered, is 
£500.I gave the parties two weeks two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; That time has 
passed; Mr K replied, Barclays didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, Having so, I 
wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. However, I will address some of Mr Ks 
further comments.
Mr K says that Barclays shouldnt have issued the mortgage offer due to the down valuation. 
Im not sure I agree with that; the judgement for Barclays to make made was whether the 
lower value still represented adequate security for the money it was being asked to lend. 
That was up to Barclays commercial discretion, and not something I should interfere with. Its 
mistake was in not providing Mr K with a copy of the valuation which, as he points out, it 
encourages people on its website to use as a negotiation tool. 
Ive already found that Barclays denied Mr K the opportunity to use the valuation as a means 
of re-negotiating the price with the vendor. Thats why Ive increased the compensation the 
business should pay him, albeit not to the extent he would like me to.  I take Mr Ks point that 
there was a 50/50 chance of him succeeding in securing a lower price. But that also means 
there was a 50/50 chance he would not. 
For me to find in his favour on this point, Mr Ks case has to be more likely than the 
alternative, not merely equally as likely. Thats broadly the same test the courts use in civil 
disputes, and in Mr Ks case, based on the available evidence, the more likely test hasnt 
been met. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Barclays Bank PLC to:
reimburse Mr £1,127.36 for late completion penalties; and
pay Mr K £700 compensation.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman