DRN-1831922
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M was in an accident. Skyfire refused to cover him for it because it said Mr M wasnt 
covered for commuting to and from his place of work. It said he was driving home from work 
at the time of the accident. Mr M didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He didn't think Skyfire needed to take 
any further action. Mr M didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
At the time Mr M rang Skyfire and reported the crash he said he was on his way home from 
work. He said he didn't usually use his car to go to or from work but that hed had to collect 
his son on the way home, so he'd taken his car.
Mr Ms policy covers him to use his car for social, domestic and pleasure purposes only. 
That means it doesn't cover him to travel to and from his place of work at any time, 
regardless if that's a one-off occasion or not. And Skyfire told Mr M that he wouldn't be 
covered for the accident.
Mr M then told Skyfire that while he was on-site at the place where he works on the day of 
the accident, he wasn't actually working that day. So he wasn't travelling from work. And hes 
provided some evidence in support of that. But Im not persuaded by Mr M's arguments that 
he wasn't working on the day of the accident.
I've listened to the phone call when Mr M reported the accident and a follow up phone call 
the next day. Mr M was clear in the initial phone call to Skyfire that hed been at work and 
then gone to collect his son before heading home. In the call the next day Mr M said hed 
been at work on the day of the accident but said that he didn't usually commute to work by 
car. He said hed only used the car that day as an exception because he had to collect his 
son on the way home. And he confirmed that several times during the conversation. He 
explained his son was taking exams and that was the reason for the exceptional journey 
from work in his car. And he argued that as it was a one off he didn't need to have 
commuting cover on his policy.  
Mr Ms since said that he wasn't working at all that day but had taken his son with him to his 
place of work in order to help him study for his exams. And if I was persuaded that was the 
case then I would agree that Mr Ms journey home didn't involve travelling to or from work; 
and so would have been covered by his policy. But I find Mr Ms evidence in the two phone 
calls he had with Skyfire to report the incident carry more weight than his later evidence.
I think Mr M was clear that he was working on the day of the accident. And that hed left work 
to go and collect his son. I don't think Mr M would have said hed had to collect his son, if 
his child had spent all day with him. And Mr M made a number of statements that indicate he 
was working on the day in question but felt that Skyfire should cover the journey because 
this was a one off and not something he did regularly. For example he said things like he 
was being up front about it [being at work]. He also said he wasn't trying to dispute what 
Skyfire was saying as on this occasion I went to and from work. Similarly, in regards to 
having been at work he said I don't mind saying it that's the truth of the matter. So both 
immediately after the accident, and the next day Mr M was clear that he'd been working. 
Later after Skyfire had turned down Mr Ms claim he said he hadn't been working, instead 
hed spent the day - at his workplace - tutoring his son. But its clear that Skyfire didn't find 
this evidence compelling, and I think thats reasonable. Mr M hasn't provided a letter or other 
evidence from his employers HR department that confirms he wasn't at work on the day. 
Instead Mr Ms provided statements from colleagues that essentially say Mr M had told them 
he wasn't working on that day and, as hes a trustworthy individual, they supported that 
statement. But I don't find that evidence persuasive as it's not clear cut that Mr M wasn't 
working, only that he said he wasn't. And, if Mr M hadn't been actually working on the day in 
question, I think that's something he would have raised immediately that Skyfire told him he 
wasn't likely to be covered, which happened during the first phone call when Mr M reported 
the accident. But Mr M didn't raise this the next day either when he phoned Skyfire to 
discuss it.
Mr M also engaged a lawyer who had access to some of Mr Ms work computer systems. 
And the lawyer said those show that Mr M didn't log into his work system on the day of the 
accident (14 May 2019). So the lawyer argued that meant Mr M wasn't working on the day. I 
don't find that evidence persuasive. That's because the lawyers submission is that the 
system evidence hes seen shows Mr M completed some work on 20 February 2019 and 
then began further work on 19 May 2019. So the lawyer said this shows Mr M didn't log-in on 
the day of the accident and so wasn't at work. 
But if I accept the lawyers evidence, that Mr M was only working on the dates that he logged 
into this system, then that means that Mr M didn't work for three months, between 
20 February and 19 May 2019. But Mr M hasn't at any point said that, at the time of the 
accident, hed taken a significant break from work. And, while I understand Mr M might, for 
the most part, be able to decide the hours and days he works, If hed taken a three month 
break I think hed have been able to provide evidence from his employer that was the case. 
But he hasn't provided that evidence. It follows that I give greater weight to Mr Ms evidence 
immediately after the accident, saying he was travelling home from work, than to his later 
evidence that he wasn't working that day. 
For completeness Mr Ms also added that it wasn't fair for Skyfire to decline his claim 
because he doesn't commute to work by car. I accept Mr Ms evidence that he wouldn't 
usually travel to and from work by car and that this was a one-off event. But Mr Ms policy 
says it won't cover him if his car is being used for a purpose not allowed by his insurance 
certificate. And Mr Ms insurance certificate, at that time, only allowed social, domestic and 
pleasure use. That means it didn't cover him to travel to and from work, regardless of 
whether that was a regular occurrence or not. And I haven't seen anything in Mr Ms policy 
documents that might have given him the impression he would be covered for such a one-off 
event. So I think Skyfires decision to turn down Mr Ms claim was reasonable in the 
circumstances. It follows that Im not going to instruct it to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman