DRN-2857693
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that National Westminster Bank PLC sent him two letters over a 12-month 
period saying his account would be closed due to inactivity. He complains that they didnt 
clearly explain the process hed need to follow to keep the account open.
What happened
Mr D had a Foundation account with NatWest. He says he expected to use it very rarely, if at 
all, but that he wanted to make sure he had access to a basic account as hed experienced 
problems in the past.
Mr D didnt use his NatWest account for several years and in November 2019 he received a 
letter from them. He says the opening line of this letter said: Were planning to close your 
FOUNDATION account  just let us know if you still need it. Mr D went into his branch and 
told them he wanted to keep the account open. He says they offered to send him a debit 
card, but he didnt receive it.
 
A year later Mr D received a similar letter from NatWest, again saying he needed to take 
action to avoid his account being closed. He says he immediately contacted them by phone 
and online chats  and that he was told hed need to make a transaction to avoid his account 
being treated as dormant. He says this caused unnecessary frustration and anxiety, because 
he believed hed already followed NatWests instructions the year before to prevent his 
account being considered dormant.
In response to Mr Ds complaint, NatWest said they consider an account to be dormant 
where no transactional activity has taken place for a period of more than five years  and 
that theyd followed the correct process by sending him letters explaining the options 
available to him. But they apologised for failing to send him a debit card - they offered him 
£50 to compensate him for the inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied. He felt NatWests communications to him were misleading, 
because they didnt make it clear that he needed to make a transaction on the account in 
order to fully remove the pre-dormancy marker. He also thought their letter didnt set out all 
the ways in which he could do this  he says hed had to have further discussions with 
NatWest before discovering he could also transfer money from an external account. He 
considers this to be important because, as a basic account customer, he was very unlikely to 
have another NatWest account that hed be able to make a transfer from. He says basic 
accounts are designed for customers who are potentially vulnerable, because they may not 
qualify for other types of current account.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong by sending letters periodically to advise Mr D that his account would be closed unless 
he made a transaction, but he thought their letters couldve been clearer about the options 
for doing this. The investigator thought the overall service provided at the branch was poor  
and that as a result Mr D had suffered the inconvenience of a wasted journey. He thought Mr 
D should be compensated for having to contact them again to get things sorted, but he felt 
the £50 NatWest had already paid was fair for the overall inconvenience this had caused. He 
said he hadnt seen any evidence that thered been a greater impact on Mr D due to a 
particular vulnerability that he had.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He said the £50 compensation NatWest had 
paid him was for their failure to send him a debit card  and that he hadnt received any 
compensation for the inconvenience associated with the account dormancy. He felt he 
should receive £350 compensation for the amount of inconvenience this had caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says NatWest failed to meet two of the principles set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  these being:
to treat their customers fairly, and
to communicate information to customers in a way thats clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Ive considered what happened here with these principles in mind.
NatWests terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which they have the right to 
close an account. This includes where theres been no transaction on the account for at least 
24 months. I dont find this contract term to be unfair - I consider it reasonable for a business 
to consider closing an account that hasnt been used for a long period of time. 
NatWest have told us that, when theres been no activity on an account for five years, a 
letter is automatically sent to the customer. They refer to this stage as pre-dormancy. Ive 
seen evidence showing thered been no transactions on Mr Ds account since 2014, so Im 
satisfied that they were entitled to consider closing the account in line with their terms and 
conditions. Although I havent seen a copy of the letter Mr D was sent in November 2019, 
hes told us it was the same as the one he received the following year. Hes shown us a copy 
of this. Ive thought about whether this gave Mr D clear information as to what he needed to 
do if he wanted to keep the account open. 
Although the opening line of the letter says: were planning to close your FOUNDATION 
account  just let us know if you still need it, it goes on to provide more information about 
the options available. It asks whether a different account might suit Mr D better, offering to 
arrange a customer service review to discuss this. The letter says that, if he wanted to 
arrange a customer service review, he should make an appointment at his local branch and 
theyd take care of the rest. It says that, if Mr D didnt want to consider a different type of 
account, he should complete and return the enclosed form. 
The form enclosed with the letter asked Mr D to tick one of two boxes, to indicate whether he 
wished to keep or close the account. It then says: If you have selected to keep your account 
open, please use the below options to select which existing NatWest account you would like 
us to transfer funds from. As a transaction is necessary in order to keep your account 
active. Mr D feels NatWests letter shouldve gone on to explain that he could also transfer 
money from another external account  he thinks this might have avoided a trip to the 
branch. I accept it didnt list all the ways in which funds could be added to the account  and 
this may have been why Mr D decided to visit the branch. Ive gone on to consider the 
service he received there.  
NatWest have told us that the pre-dormancy marker was removed from the account at Mr 
Ds request. But as he still didnt make any transactions, the pre-dormancy marker was automatically reapplied to his account 12 months later. Mr D says that, if NatWest had told 
him the account would be kept open for longer if he paid money in, thats what he wouldve 
done.
 
There are no records of the conversation at the branch, so I cant say whether Mr D wouldve 
added funds to his account during that visit if the pre-dormancy process had been explained 
to him more clearly. Ive thought about this carefully, but I dont consider it to make any 
difference to the outcome here. Ill explain why I say this.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt here to tell a business how to operate or indeed 
punish a business if we think it got something wrong  thats not something we can do. Our 
role is to look at the impact on the customer and consider whether the business should do 
more to put that right. 
Although Mr D feels strongly that the lack of clarity in NatWests letter and their failure to 
send the promised debit card should be treated as separate issues, I have to consider the 
overall impact these things had on him. Mr D says customers who need to use basic 
accounts are potentially vulnerable as they often have limited choice in the accounts 
available to them. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest he had any particular vulnerability 
that NatWest shouldve taken into account.
 
I understand that Mr D is seeking £350 for non-financial loss, but I consider £50 to be fair 
and reasonable compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused, taking into 
consideration the wasted trip to the branch, which resulted in Mr D having to contact 
NatWest again about both the pre-dormancy of his account and missing debit card. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to direct NatWest to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman