DRN-3630105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Leeds Building Society (Leeds) gave them misleading 
information about the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) they would need to pay if redeeming 
their mortgage at particular points in time. They would like to be refunded the difference 
between an ERC of 5% of the outstanding balance, and 4%.
What happened
In November 2019 Leeds made Mr and Mrs S a product transfer offer to switch their 
mortgage to a five-year fixed interest rate. Mr and Mrs S accepted that offer and transferred 
their mortgage product.
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs S sold the property in question, and expected to pay an ERC 
of 4% of the remaining mortgage balance. This was based on the information theyd read in 
the product transfer offer from November 2019. However, Leeds charged them 5%, which 
Mr and Mrs S queried. Leeds explained that the 4% ERC didnt start until January 2022, and 
so because they redeemed the mortgage in December 2021, 5% was the correct amount. It 
said that, although the product transfer offer did set out that the 4% ERC would begin on 1 
December 2021, in fact that was only an illustration. It said that because the five-year fixed 
term didnt actually start until 1 January 2020, the 4% ERC wasnt applicable until 1 January 
2022.
Unhappy with Leeds response, Mr and Mrs S came to this service, and ultimately the 
investigator thought that Leeds hadnt acted fairly and reasonably. She thought the 
information was unclear, and so upheld the complaint. Leeds doesnt accept that. It says that 
Mr and Mrs S ought to have known that their product transfer didnt complete until 1 January 
2020, and so that the ERC figures in the product transfer offer werent accurate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint, essentially for the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ill summarise the key issues.
Essentially this case turns on whether I find that Leeds have treated Mr and Mrs S fairly 
and reasonably in terms of the provision of clear and not misleading information.
Leeds says it understands how this misunderstanding has happened, and that it has 
provided feedback onto the department who produces the offers. It would appear that 
its process is for the offer letter to be based on assumptions about the product transfer 
completing on the first day of the following month in all cases  regardless of the actual 
circumstances of the customer. So the product transfer letter sent to Mr and Mrs S on 29 
November 2019 contains several references to figures and calculations being based on the 
assumption that the transfer will complete on 1 December 2019.
On the one hand, that timeframe could be described as clearly implausible. Surely Mr and 
Mrs S ought to have realised, therefore, that much of the information in the product transfer 
offer letter needed to be treated with caution?
On the other hand, Leeds is required to provide customers with clear and not misleading 
information. It has accepted that the way its offers are set out can be misleading for its 
customers. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think its far or reasonable for Mr and 
Mrs S to suffer a loss as a result. 
Leeds says that other factors ought to have made it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the product 
transfer did not complete until 1 January 2020. For example, it cites references in other 
letters to their existing deal not ending until 31 December 2019. And to the fact that Mr and 
Mrs S were not charged an ERC on that deal  meaning that it ought therefore have been 
obvious to them that the product transfer hadnt happened before that date. Leeds says 
that Mr and Mrs S .have therefore received a consistent message from us that their 
existing product would end 31st December [2019] and the new product would be effective 
from 1st January [2020] unless they instructed us otherwise and paid the existing product 
ERC.
I disagree. In this instance, I find that Leeds chosen process in generating offer letters led 
to Mr and Mrs S being provided with avoidably unclear information. I also note and place 
weight on a follow up letter to Mr and Mrs S dated 3 December 2019, which opens with:
were pleased to let you know that your product transfer is now complete.
That statement cannot be described as accurate, and I have not had an explanation as to 
why Leeds included it in the letter in question.
Mr and Mrs S received a product transfer offer setting out that from 1 December 2021 the 
ERC on the mortgage would be 4%. (There is a sentence saying Leeds has assumed the 
transfer will take place on 1 December 2019. But nothing to highlight that, if it doesnt, then 
the following details about the ERC will be incorrect.) They then received a letter dated 3 
December 2019 telling them the transfer was complete. I dont agree that they should have 
known that wasnt correct, and in the round, I dont think Leeds provided clear information 
on this point.
So I think Mr and Mrs S had a reasonable expectation that when they redeemed the 
mortgage in December 2021, that would be subject to an ERC of 4% of the outstanding 
balance. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs S, Leeds Building Society must do the following:
A) Recalculate the ERC that Mr and Mrs S paid in December 2021 on the basis of it being 
4% of the outstanding balance, not 5%.
B) Refund the difference between that figure and the ERC that Mr and Mrs S paid to them.
C) Add 8% simple interest* to the refund amount from the date the ERC payment was made 
to the date of settlement.
E) Pay Mr and Mrs S up to £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that 
has been caused to them. If Leeds has already paid the £25 it offered in its email of 20 
January 2022, then it must pay a further £75. If not, then it should pay the full £100.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Leeds Building Society to deduct tax from this interest. It 
should give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Leeds Building Society to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman