DRN-3616044
Complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) initially blocked his access to his 
account and then closed it.
Background
In February 2021, Mr Ls account received a payment of £497 and two payments of £498. 
These funds were immediately transferred on to a crypto-currency provider. Barclays 
subsequently received a notification from a third-party bank stating that the payee in two of 
the transfers had reported being a victim of fraud. Barclays initially blocked Mr Ls account 
pending a review and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Ls account and 
record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr L subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. As Mr L remained dissatisfied, Mr L referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns. As the fraud marker was recorded as a 
direct consequence of the reason Mr Ls account was blocked in the first place our 
adjudicator also looked at Barclays actions in relation to this. He didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons that will become clear further on, Ive started by looking at whether Barclays 
acted fairly and reasonably when recording the fraud prevention marker against Mr L.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr L is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ls account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr L was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr L allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. In order to determine Mr Ls complaint, I need to 
decide whether I think Barclays had enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered         
Mr Ls account and that his actions suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered 
everything, I find that Barclays did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id 
like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ls 
account in February 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr L was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr L says the fraudulent funds entered his account without his knowledge. He said he wasnt 
aware of the money coming in, or going out and didnt give anyone access to his banking 
details. The first he knew about the matter was when he was unable to access his account. 
Ive thought about what Mr L has said. But Mr L hasnt provided any sort of plausible 
explanation as to how any fraudster would have been able to obtain his account details and 
also access his mobile banking on a device registered well in advance of the fraud taking 
place. Im also mindful that tester payments transferring smaller amounts to the same 
crypto-currency provider were made before the fraud took place. 
This happened in circumstances where Mr L says he regularly monitored his account and 
there are debit card transactions, cash withdrawals and transfers between Mr Ls accounts, 
which he doesnt dispute making, during the period the fraudulent activity was taking place. 
And as Mr L is also insistent his account details werent compromised, its difficult for me to 
see how a third party would have been able to receive the payments and then make the 
transfers in question without his cooperation. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ls account. And bearing in mind the 
evidence, it was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that    
Mr L was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to 
record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did.
I now turn to the closure of Mr Ls account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ls account state 
Barclays could close an account in certain circumstances. These included where it had 
reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) fraud against us or 
someone else. Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to 
conclude that Mr Ls account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it 
didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also 
satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to 
close Mr Ls account. 
 
Finally, I note that Barclays paid Mr L £50 for the delay in it returning the remaining balance 
in his account at the time it was closed. I appreciate that Mr L is unhappy at the amount of 
compensation Barclays has paid as he believes it doesnt adequately reflect the delay in 
releasing his funds. But given the funds held only totalled £18.02 and Barclays was entitled to close the account in the first place, Im satisfied that the amount of compensation already 
paid is fair and reasonable bearing in mind all the circumstances of this case.  
So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr L and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded 
against him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman