DRN-3124525
The complaint
Miss O complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) has irresponsibly lent 
to her.
What happened
Miss O was accepted for a JLFS credit card in July 2019, with a £500 credit limit. She says 
that at the time she wasnt working. Miss O says she was experiencing personal and health 
issues at the time JLFS issued the credit card to her.
As Miss O hadnt made any repayments to the credit card from the account opening, JLFS 
contacted Miss O in December 2019. Miss O explained to them that she was having 
financial difficulties. Miss O did manage to make a payment to her account. But the account 
later defaulted due to Miss O not making at least the contractual monthly repayments for a 
prolonged period of time.
Miss O complained to JLFS. They apologised if Miss O felt they had not supported her 
during her financial difficulties and if she received poor customer service. JLFS credited £20 
to her account. Miss O brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that JLFS records showed that Miss O 
had told them she was earning £18,000 per annum and that the general credit history that 
JLFS saw for Miss O showed no adverse credit. Our investigator concluded that JLFS 
checks were proportionate to the amount of credit which was approved. Miss O asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Miss O, JLFS needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to; the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks JLFS said they did prior to accepting Miss Os application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Miss O
had gave them, such as her declared earnings of £18,000 and being in her role for 9 years 
and 6 months. They looked at the information from the credit bureau. JLFS said that Miss 
Os credit information showed she had no adverse information at the time of them approving 
the £500 credit limit.
So Ive considered if the checks that JLFS carried out were proportionate to the level of 
credit that Miss O was given. Based on the data showing that Miss O had no accounts in 
arrears, had been carrying out her role for nearly a decade, which would suggest stability, 
then Im persuaded that the checks JLFS carried out here were proportionate. 
Although Miss O says she wasnt working at the time, Ive seen nothing in the application 
data which would suggest JLFS would be aware of this, especially as Miss O had told JLFS 
she was working and was earning £18,000 per annum at the time. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to hold JLFS responsible if she did not make them aware of her actual personal 
circumstances at the time, when there was nothing in the data they saw which would 
suggest that Miss O wasnt working or suffering financial difficulties. 
Im sorry to hear about Miss Os personal and health issues over recent years. JLFS has 
said they credited Miss Os account with £20 because they took her word that she had poor 
customer service. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest JLFS should pay any more 
compensation or that the checks they carried out werent proportionate to the credit they 
approved. So it follows that I wont be asking JLFS to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman