DRN-4473326
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the service he received from AXA Insurance UK Plc on two 
claims he made under his Haulage Vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W made claims following two accidents. There were significant delays on AXAs part in 
dealing with both. And he made several complaints about this. AXA issued several final 
responses. 
We considered a previous complaint by Mr W about the handling of both claims and agreed 
with the offer AXA had made for the delays and its offer to consider further financial losses. 
And this complaint was closed on the basis Mr W was happy with what AXA had offered. 
Mr W then asked us to consider this current complaint in May 2023. When he did this he 
submitted a complaint form in which he set out what it was about. He mentioned the fact 
hed been involved in two accidents and that he was unhappy about the service hed 
received on the claims. And he said hed made a complaint on 10 January 2023 to AXA, 
which it hadnt responded to. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. She explained AXA had already 
made an offer for the delays on both Mr Ws claim, which we found to be fair when we dealt 
with his previous complaint. So she couldnt asked AXA to make a further offer. 
She explained that AXA had made a mistake when it acknowledged the complaint Mr W 
made in January 2023 and quoted an incorrect reference. But she was satisfied it had dealt 
with the issues hed complained about in its later final responses. 
The investigator also addressed an issue Mr W didnt actually raise with us when he 
complained in May 2023. This was regarding AXAs handling of a third party claim in that it 
failed to obtain CCTV footage of the accident. The investigator did this because she was 
under the impression Mr W wanted us to consider this. She said what AXA had paid in 
compensation for its handling error on this claim was fair.  
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view. He said hed explained to AXA when he 
reported the accident that CCTV footage was available and it had failed to obtain it. 
He also said he had to resort to using social media to get AXA to consider his complaints 
and had to arrange the repairs to his vehicle himself. And the basis of his complaint in 
January 2023 was that hed had to go to great lengths to get AXA to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ws complaint should not be upheld. 
As our investigator has explained, AXA has already addressed Mr Ws complaints about the 
impact delays in dealing with his claims had on him. And we considered a complaint about 
these issues and said we thought what AXA had offered to do was fair. So, I am unable to 
consider anything further in relation to these claims. 
AXA also dealt with Mr Ws other complaint about it not obtaining the CCTV of his accident 
in November 2022. It explained that Mr W did not mention the CCTV when he reported the 
accident in writing. And, even if he did mention it later when he spoke to a claim handler, it 
would have been too late to obtain it at this point. AXA realised it hadnt actually explained 
this to Mr W, so it paid him £150 in compensation. And I am satisfied this is fair. 
Our rules do not permit me to consider complaints which relate purely to complaint handling. 
And it seems this is the other thing Mr W is complaining about. I say this because hes 
mentioned having to raise the fact he was complaining through social media and with his 
MP. And hes also mentioned the fact AXA failed to deal with the complaint he made in 
January 2023 and provided him with an incorrect reference. I think these things all concern 
complaint handling, so they are not things I am able to comment on. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint about AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman