DRN-4066027
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund the money he lost as the result of an 
investment scam.
Mr As complaint has been brought by a representative, for ease of reading I will refer solely 
to Mr A in this decision.
What happened
All the details are well known to both parties and were set out in the investigators view of 12 
January 2023 - so I wont repeat them in full here. In summary, Mr A was the victim of an 
investment scam which resulted in him making the following payments from his Monzo 
current account.
Payment 
number DateMethod of 
payment Merchant Amount (£)Running 
total
1 15 June 2022 Debit card Wellari.tech £208.47 £208.47
2 22 June 2022Faster 
Payment Skrill (Binance) £1,001 £1,209.47
3 6 July 2022Faster 
Payment Skrill (Binance) £3,643 £4,852.47
4 6 July 2022Faster 
Payment Skrill (Binance) £3,643 £8,495.47
                                                                                                                     
Total £8,495.47 £8,495.47
Mr A believed he was funding his investment opportunity with a company Ill call C after 
being contacted by them. He was persuaded to open a cryptocurrency exchange account in 
order to buy crypto to fund his investment with C but it turned out to be a scam. 
 
Mr A says Monzo ought to have identified he was likely fallen victim to a scam and feels it 
could have prevented his loss. 
Monzo declined Mr As refund. It tried to recover the faster payments from the beneficiary 
bank but the bank advised the funds had been utilised. It also concluded Mr A had no 
recourse through the Mastercard chargeback scheme for his debit card payment. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service explaining that he wants a full refund along with 
£500 compensation; and for Monzo to cover any related legal costs. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint in part. He felt Monzo ought to have been concerned 
about Mr As final faster payment as it represented unusual and uncharacteristic account 
activity and he felt an intervention could have prevented further losses. He did however feel 
Mr A should share equal responsibility for this payment as the due diligence checks he says 
he carried out ought to have identified many negative reviews about C. Mr A accepted but 
Monzo did not. 
Monzo said in summary, the payments were not out of character as Mr A had a short history 
of trading in cryptocurrency over a few weeks and he mainly used the account for faster 
payments. It also knew the payments were going to an account in Mr As name and 
intervening would be putting barriers up for him. 
The case was therefore passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Mr A made his payments, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
Firstly, this was a very sophisticated scam and Mr A had been introduced to what appeared 
to be a very real investment opportunity with a trading platform that indicated his investment 
was performing well. So I think he trusted C was a legitimate investment opportunity at the 
time he made all of his payments. 
Three of the four payments in dispute were Faster Payments sent to a well-known crypto 
exchange. Monzo has said it identified Mr A was paying a crypto exchange account in his 
name  so its reasonable for me to conclude that Monzo ought to have known that Mr A was 
likely purchasing crypto at the time he sent these payments. Ive also thought about whether 
there was anything else about the payments which ought to have concerned Monzo. 
The first two payments
I agree with our investigator and I dont think I can fairly say that the first two payments were 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. They were in keeping with Mr As 
normal account activity when considering his previous account spend. For example, Mr A 
made an undisputed Faster Payment of £1,328 in February 2022. 
The payments were also made one week apart and so appeared to be one-off payments. I 
dont think Monzo ought to have been obliged to have intervened before allowing either of 
them through in order to protect Mr A from the possibility of financial harm from fraud  as I 
dont think it could have reasonably suspected this. 
Payment three
Whilst payment three was higher than payments one and two, it was also approximately two 
weeks after payment two. I dont think Monzo ought reasonably to have suspected Mr A was 
at risk of financial harm. Its not uncommon for customers to spend larger amounts at any 
given time. I dont think payment three was sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to mean 
that Lloyds ought to have suspected that Mr As account was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud and therefore warrant an intervention. 
Payment four
I do however think payment four, when taken cumulatively with payment three ought to have 
warranted an intervention from Monzo. Payment four represented a total of £7,286 on the same day to a relatively new payee for Mr A. This was the most Mr A had spent since 
September 2021 and I think Monzo ought to have had some concern that Mr As account 
was subject to unusual and uncharacteristic activity.
Monzo has said Mr A would have seen a new payee warning when he sent his first Faster 
Payment. Ive read the contents of the warning Mr A would have seen and I dont think it was 
relevant to the investment scam hed fallen victim to. 
Monzo confirmed it didnt intervene and I think it was a missed opportunity to do so. 
If Monzo had intervened (as I think it ought reasonably to), Id have expected it to query with 
Mr A what the purpose of the payment was. I think hed have likely explained he was 
purchasing crypto. Id also have expected Monzo to query whether he was investing upon 
the advice of a third party. I think Mr A would have likely explained he was investing with C 
and had been investing with them for a few weeks. 
I think Monzo ought to have asked if Mr A had been able to withdraw any of his investment 
and I think Mr A would likely have explained he had tried but was told he needed to pay 
money to release his profits. I think this would have been of concern to Monzo as it would 
likely have recognised this as a theme of a common investment scam. I think at this point, 
Monzo could have provided some useful information about how crypto investment scams 
work and that it sounded like Mr A had fallen victim to one. 
So before payment four was actually processed, Mr A would probably have stopped in his 
tracks. But for Monzos failure to act on clear earlier triggers of potential fraud or financial 
harm, Mr A would probably have not lost this final payment.
 
Ive also thought about whether Mr As actions contributed to his losses. Despite regulatory 
safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take responsibility for their 
decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000).
In the circumstances, I do think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr 
A should share blame for what happened. As I explained, this was a sophisticated scam and 
I think Mr A believed it was legitimate. But Mr A said before investing with C, he conducted 
due diligence checks on Trustpilot. He said he saw good reviews about C but having 
checked this myself, Ive not found any good reviews about C but I have noted several scam 
reviews prior to Mr As first payment to them. So like our investigator, its likely Mr A ignored 
the scam reviews, or didnt carry out any due diligence checks but given his testimony, I 
agree that he should share 50% responsibility for this payment. 
Recovery
Ive considered whether Monzo could have recovered any of Mr As payments. As he made 
a payment using his debit card, the only potential recovery option for payment one would 
have been through the chargeback scheme. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme  in this case Mastercard -
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or 
be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Monzo) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr A.I dont see that Monzo attempted a chargeback claim for payment one. But I dont think this 
makes a material difference. Mastercard restricts chargeback options for investment 
transactions. It considers the purpose of the Mastercard transaction to load funds into the 
gambling or investment account and not what activities are subsequently done with the 
funds. There doesnt seem to be a dispute that Mr As funds were ultimately loaded onto his 
investment account, so I dont think Monzo had a valid chargeback ground to use in this 
instance. 
In relation to payments two to four, these were Faster Payments sent to Mr As own account 
with Skrill (Binance). I have however seen that Monzo attempted to recover these payments 
from the beneficiary bank and it received a response advising the funds had been utilised. 
I therefore dont think Monzo could have recovered any of Mr As payments. 
I do however think it could have prevented payment four so it should return this, less 50%, 
together with interest. 
Customer service 
Ive considered Mr As request for compensation and legal fees. Whilst I think Monzo missed 
an opportunity to intervene, I dont intend to award additional compensation for this. I think 
most of Mr As distress was caused by the cruel scammers, rather than Monzo. I also dont 
intend to award a payment towards Mr As legal fees, he isnt required to come to this 
service with a legal representative as we offer a free service, so any costs incurred by Mr A 
are his responsibility to pay. 
My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund payment four less 50% which totals £1,821.50. It should also 
pay 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount, from the date of the payment, to the date 
of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman