DRN-3782076
The complaint
Mr D feels that NewDay Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to the purchase of a golf 
trip.
What happened
In April 19 Mr D arranged a golf trip for a total of eight people abroad. The trip included all-
inclusive accommodation, transfers and five golf rounds for those on the trip. He paid the 
remaining £6580 on his NewDay credit card on February 2020. The trip was due to take 
place in May 2020 but was cancelled due to the Pandemic. Mr D tried to get his money back 
from the company he paid, which Ill call Firm G.  But he was unsuccessful. So he took his 
complaint to NewDay.
NewDay looked into it but said he was out of time for a Chargeback and that the required 
relationship wasnt in place for a successful claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. So Mr D brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and upheld the complaint under S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. They required NewDay to refund Mr D the amount paid to his card account 
on the date he raised the dispute with it, rework the account from that date and pay 8% on 
any periods from then when the reworked account was in credit to Mr D.
NewDay responded to say it had treated Mr D fairly and didnt accept the Investigators 
position, so this dispute comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr D can bring a claim under Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) if 
certain requirements are met. The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr D has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can also 
bring that claim against NewDay (provided certain conditions are met as Ive described).
Ive considered the financial limits requirement of the CCA and Im satisfied that is met here. 
NewDay is arguing that the required Debtor Creditor Supplier relationship under the CCA 
isnt met here. Its thinking is that Mr D paid Firm G but the accommodation was provided by 
a hotel, the transfers by a transfer company and the golf rounds by another company. But as 
the Investigator explained:
It is clear Mr D booked a packaged holiday. I am satisfied it was a package trip for the
purposes of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR).
This is because it was a prearranged combination of an all-inclusive hotel, airport transfers,
5 rounds of golf and golf shuttles, and it confirms on the booking confirmation it was sold for
an inclusive price. Having reviewed the evidence, I can see the booking invoice confirms the 
total cost of £6,680 for the package holiday. While the package trip was provided by a series 
of different suppliers, the PTRs operate to place liability for the performance of the travel 
services included in a package on the organiser, irrespective of whether the travel services 
are performed by third parties.
NewDay hasnt argued or indeed commented on this point in its response, which is 
disappointing bearing in mind it is at the crux of the matter. The Investigator pointed to the 
PTRs and said specifically the PTRs operate to place liability for the performance of the 
travel services included in a package on the organiser. The Investigator has said this 
because in the PTRs Regulation 13 says:
The 2018 PTRs explicitly places liability for the performance of the travel services included 
in the package on the organiser (regulation 15) irrespective of whether the travel services 
are performed by third parties.
Regulation 5 defines travel services to include carriage, accommodation, motor hire and 
other tourist services. And Regulation 15 defines the organiser as the trader who 
combines and sells packages. Clearly in this context Firm G is the Organiser. And I note 
NewDay hasnt in anyway sought to argue that Firm G isnt the Organiser as per the PTRs. 
Im satisfied it is the organiser and under the PTRs it holds the liability for the performance 
of the contract.
Accordingly the DCS requirement of S75 of the CCA is met because Mr D is the debtor, 
NewDay is the Creditor and Firm G is the Supplier (because the PTRs make it legally 
responsible for the delivery of the performance of the package). So NewDays arguments 
about DCS are unpersuasive here. All in all I am satisfied that the required criteria for 
NewDay to be held responsible for any breach or material misrepresentation under Section 
75 of the CCA is met.
Breach
Ive considered the emails between Mr D and Firm G and it is clear Firm G are not offering a 
refund, as per its terms and conditions, which state:
Where we have to make any significant changes to the material characteristics of your trip,
we will notify you of these as soon as possible and give you the option to either continue with
your booking (where possible), re-arrange your booking or accept an alternative trip we offer
or cancel your booking and receive a full refund (with no cancellation fee being deducted).
As the trip didnt happen due to the pandemic and Firm G didnt fulfil the terms above there 
is clearly a breach. And under S75 for the reasons given NewDay is as liable as Firm G is. 
And even if it wasnt liable under the PTRs it is clear that Firm G have an agreement with Mr 
D to provide a full refund in the event of non-performance of the trip and havent done so. So 
its a breach of contract whichever way, and indeed in both ways of looking at it.
I note that Mr D has set out in an email to NewDay in November 2020 that one of the party, 
managed to recover costs through their insurance. Accordingly the amount due to Mr D is 
£5845 which covers the total cost less that redressed separately. I note that this group of 
individuals arent named individually, and that Mr D paid for them all. Accordingly Im 
satisfied the only contract here is between Mr D and Firm G.
Accordingly it is my decision that this complaint should be upheld and NewDay should have 
redressed the matter when Mr D brought his complaint to it had it treated his Section 75 
fairly.Putting things right
Accordingly I direct NewDay to rework Mr Ds account by refunding it with £5845 as of 28 
January 2021 (the date it told him is claim was unsuccessful). Having done this it should 
then pay 8% interest on any periods of credit balance on Mr Ds account between then and 
when it settles the complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons I uphold this complaint about NewDay Limited and direct it to remedy 
the situation as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman