DRN-4081602
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont refund money she paid for a 
service she didnt receive, as well as the customer service it provided.
What happened
Ms S paid a business, that Ill call B, a £525 deposit towards the creation of a website for her 
business. 
She met a representative of B, whom she knew through a friend, in person to discuss the 
website. But, when B showed her its work, it was of very poor quality and very basic. She 
requested a refund, but B refused and asked her to pay the outstanding balance. 
Ms S reported the matter to her bank. Two of the banks advisors initially said that it would 
be able to dispute the payment through the chargeback scheme and that shed receive the 
money back into her account. It later realised that Ms S had paid by bank transfer and not 
card, so it wouldnt be able to do this. It paid Ms S £100 to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused by giving the wrong information.
Ms S referred the matter to our service but one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. They considered whether the dispute fell under the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which requires its 
signatories like Halifax to reimburse victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams in all 
but a limited number of circumstances, but they were satisfied Ms S dispute was civil in 
nature and not a scam. 
The Investigator also thought that the £100 compensation paid by Halifax was sufficient to 
recognise the impact of the incorrect information it gave. 
Ms S didnt agree that the £100 was sufficient. In summary, she said:
-Halifax hadnt gotten in touch to explain that it had given incorrect information to her 
and shed spent a lot of time trying to resolve the matter with the bank. The bank was 
unwilling to help and just directed her to our service. 
-Halifax didnt try to recover her money, even though shed been sent abusive 
messages by B.
-B stopped paying a subscription related to the website it was supposed to provide, 
despite promising to pay.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A payment made by bank transfer, like this one, attracts far fewer protections than one made 
by debit or credit card. And, in law, Ms S is responsible for payments shes made herself  
regardless of any contractual dispute between her and the recipient.
The CRM Code was introduced to reimburse victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. But it specifically excludes civil disputes. Its not clear to me that 
(until her recent correspondence, at least), Ms S has really alleged that shes been the victim 
of a scam. And, it would be very difficult for me to reach that conclusion  Ms S met Bs 
representative in person, Bs website appears to be live and theres no indication that B has 
ceased trading. Theres also no suggestion that there is any criminal investigation into B. 
And, it doesnt surprise me that B has stopped paying Ms S subscription, given that she only 
paid a deposit towards the website.
Overall, Im satisfied that this is a civil dispute between Ms S and B. That means I cant 
consider the matter under the CRM Code and there is no obligation on Halifax to try and 
recover Ms S funds from the bank which received them. Equally, its very unlikely the 
receiving bank would return any money unless it was satisfied a scam had taken place. 
Turning to the service provided to Ms S. I can imagine how disappointing it would be for her 
to be told that shed receive the money back on two occasions, only for this later to be 
corrected. But, this was clearly a mistake by Halifaxs advisors, seemingly due to a system 
issue. And, it wouldnt be fair to expect Halifax to honour those mistakes. Instead, Ive 
considered the trouble and upset caused to Ms S.
The banks notes suggest that it told Ms S that it wouldnt be able to dispute the payment a 
little over a week after it gave the incorrect information. I can also see that within a few 
weeks of the complaint being raised, a final response letter was sent to Ms S (though I 
appreciate she may not have received it) and £100 compensation was paid. So, I think the 
information was corrected quite quickly. 
There was further communication between Ms S and Halifax after this, but that seems to be 
as a result of Ms S disagreeing with the decision not to provide a full refund. I dont think 
Halifax has made a mistake in relation to that and, as it had provided its final response letter 
to Ms S, it was also reasonable for it to direct her to our service if she remained unhappy.
While I appreciate this matter has been very stressful for Ms S, I think thats largely due to 
her dispute with B and the fact shes been left out of pocket. Im satisfied that Halifax has 
compensated her adequately for its failings and Ive decided it doesnt need to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman