DRN-3092287
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund withdrawals he says he didnt make from 
his account.
What happened
Mr L disputes four cash machine withdrawals totalling £370 all made within 10 minutes of 
each other on 2 October 2020. He says that his card was taken from him by someone he 
was talking to. And he thinks his PIN was seen when he entered it into a cash machine. He 
has reported this to police.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding the money. When Mr L reported his card missing on 2 
October 2020 and highlighted the withdrawals he was asked how someone would have 
known his PIN. He gave no explanation. But when he called back on 5 October 2020 he said 
that the person he was speaking to had asked him for change of a £10 note and he had tried 
to take two £5 notes from a cash machine but found these notes were not available. Lloyds 
said that there was no record of him trying to do so. It told him that he should pursue this 
with police.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she had 
considered the possibility that Mr L was shoulder surfed and his PIN seen. But Lloyds had 
provided further evidence to show that his card and PIN hadnt been used in the cash 
machine he identified. And that the cash machine used for the disputed transactions was a 
different one. There was no evidence to support a point of compromise for his PIN. In 
addition, Mr L hadnt been consistent in what he said. And so, there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to conclude that the payments were unauthorised. Mr L had told her that these 
payments were made while he was waiting for 10 minutes on the phone to speak to Lloyds. 
But again, there was no evidence of this. And even if there had been that wouldnt alone 
make the withdrawals unauthorised.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that his explanation hadnt changed. Hes made additional 
comments to this service and stated that when he first raised this he didnt ..have a clue 
how it happened because I was drunk and in shock. I suggested I was mugged which I 
pretty much was for the card. He added he was taken advantage of and Im certain the 
reason was when I was asked to change a note. He said he was shocked at Lloyds lack of 
compassion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened, but Ill be thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr L wouldnt generally be responsible for them. Three of the payments resulted in an 
overdraft. And so, where credit is involved, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it 
states that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they 
consented to someone else having possession of that card.
Lloyds has provided audit information for the withdrawals and Im satisfied that they were 
made when the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. 
I appreciate Mr L says he had been drinking that evening. He had stopped at a convenience 
store to buy alcohol at 22:14 using his card for a contactless purchase. And he says he had 
an interaction outside the store with a man who he says took his card.
Ive listened to recordings of the calls he had with Lloyds. In the first call he says that he was 
discussing with this man going to a party and for some reason was asked if his wallet could 
be looked at. He said he felt intimidated into giving it. But that he got it back and then 
realised that his card had been taken. The individual ran off. Mr L checked his online 
banking and could see money being withdrawn from his account - starting with £100 at 22:31 
another £100 at 22:32, £100 at 22.33 and a further £70 at 22:40. Lloyds says his call was 
dealt with from that time and his card was cancelled. 
He was asked in the call how he thought someone had discovered his PIN and he said he 
was sure he didnt give it to anyone. He didnt mention any request to change a £10 note 
then. Lloyds said it couldnt help and that he would need to take this up with police.
Mr L phoned back on 5 October 2020 having spoken with police. He said he then realised 
that his PIN might have been seen when he tried to take out two £5 notes to give change to 
the man. Lloyds said that this would be something now that the police would need to 
investigate. It further said in a call on 12 November 2020 about his complaint that it had no 
record of Mr Ls card and PIN being used in a machine before the disputed withdrawals. And 
it didnt understand why he hadnt mentioned this explanation before.
I can see that the last record of use of the card with the PIN before the disputed withdrawals 
is on 27 September 2020. Lloyds has explained that even if a transaction had been 
cancelled there is still a record of the card and PIN being entered. I note that when Mr L 
emailed this service on 12 February 2021 he said that he might have used a different card 
with the same PIN as his Lloyds card. But later that a different bank didnt have any record of 
use either. And that police had earlier confirmed that there was no CCTV available.
Its not impossible as Mr L says that when in a distraught state in his first call that he didnt 
fully realise what the fraudster he says he was speaking to had done. And that police had 
experience of similar fraud in that area.  I accept that the pattern of withdrawals is consistent 
with someone taking as much money from the account as possible. But I need to consider 
the evidence to support what Mr L says. And there is no evidence of any compromise of his 
PIN either with this or any other card. I understand his position entirely on what happened 
and that he doesnt think hes been inconsistent. But Ive nothing to support that the 
withdrawals were other than done with his consent and authorised because there is no point 
of compromise for the PIN. And because of that I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have 
identified these as suspicious when they were made or to refund them.
So, I know he will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything 
more. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman