DRN-3383114
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Loans2Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022 that I summarise below.
Mr R was given three loans by Loans2Go in 2017 and 2019.
Loan 1 was taken in October 2017. Mr R borrowed £500 over 12 months repaying around 
£96 per month. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was just 
over £1,160.
Loan 2 in May 2019 was for £250 repayable over 18 months in monthly instalments of 
around £57. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was just 
over £1,028.
Loan 3 in October 2019 was for around £713 repayable over 18 months in monthly 
instalments of around £163. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including 
interest, was just over £2,936. 
In my provisional decision I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in 
particular the checks that Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
I said that Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr R 
irresponsibly. And that Loans2Go had to carry out proportionate checks each time to satisfy 
itself that he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Loans2Go was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
I carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Loans2Go carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Mr R which included 
asking for details of his income and expenditure. It also reviewed a payslip, acquired a credit 
report, and asked to see bank statements. I thought Loans2Gos checks were reasonable 
and proportionate, in the circumstances.  However, I didnt think it made a fair lending 
decision on this occasion.
Loans2Go says the loan was affordable for Mr R. Loans2Go calculated that Mr R had 
sufficient disposable income, after paying his regular expenses, his existing creditors and his 
Loans2Go monthly repayments. The lender had applied a buffer of £60 per month. But 
Loans2Go was aware that Mr R was already repaying at least 2 other high cost short term 
lenders which ought reasonably to have suggested to it that this was a consumer who was 
already struggling to manage his finances. Given Mr Rs low level of disposable income after 
all expenses, I thought Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised from its own 
calculations that Mr R may not be able to meet unexpected emergencies or repay his loan 
sustainably over the whole loan term. And that this put him at risk of having to borrow further 
to meet his ongoing financial commitments. I didnt think Loans2Go ought to have provided 
the first loan to Mr R.
Mr R took the second loan in May 2019. Loans2Go thinks it would have been unfair to Mr R 
if it had requested more information about his financial circumstances. But I thought the 
lender ought reasonably to have realised from the checks it had carried out that Mr R had 
been relying on short term high cost lending for some time before he applied for the second 
loan. I thought it would have been reasonable and proportionate for the lender to have 
looked further into Mr Rs circumstances, to satisfy itself that Mr R could repay the loan 
sustainably. Mr R has provided bank statements from the months leading up to his second 
loan. I thought if Loans2Go had carried out checks that were reasonable and proportionate it 
would most likely have realised that Mr R was struggling to manage his finances and that he 
would be unlikely to be able to repay his loan sustainably over the extended loan term. I 
thought Loans2Go ought fairly to have declined to provide the second loan to Mr R.
Mr R returned a few months later to borrow again from Loans2Go. I thought the lender ought 
to have considered that Mr R was returning to borrow again, only a few months into an 18-
month loan term. I thought it would have been reasonable and proportionate for the lender to 
want to gain a thorough understanding of Mr Rs financial position - for example by 
requesting bank statements. Had it done so, I thought Loans2Go ought to have realised that 
Mr R was struggling to get out from under his financial problems and that he was most likely 
borrowing for a third time to maintain his ongoing financial commitments. Loans2Go may 
have calculated that Mr R had sufficient disposable income to repay loan. But it had to 
ensure that he could do so sustainably, without borrowing further. Taking Mr Rs 
circumstances as a whole, I thought Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that he would most likely be unable to repay the third loan sustainably and so it ought reasonably to 
have declined to lend to him.
I hadnt seen anything which made me think that Loans2Go acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr R in some other way. But taking everything into account, I didnt think Loans2Go 
should have agreed to provide any of the loans to Mr R. 
I asked both parties to send me anything further they would like me to consider. I havent 
seen new evidence from either Mr R or Loans2Go. The deadline for further comments has 
now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I dont think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have provided Mr R with any of the loans. So 
Loans2Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he paid interest and charges on loans that 
shouldnt have been provided to him.
Loans2Go should:
Remove all interest, fees, and charges on all the loans and treat all the payments 
Mr R made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Rs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans2Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then Loans2Go needs to treat Mr R sympathetically and fairly, which might 
include coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the 
loans once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans2Go 
should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman