DRN-1632613
 
The complaint
Bs complaint, in summary, is that Al Rayan Bank Plc did not execute a faster payment order 
in a timely manner. It says that as a result it incurred late fees from one of its suppliers of 
service.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them at length 
here.  Briefly, B wanted to make a faster payment of £14,000 on 27 June 2019. Its director 
has explained that it was important the payment was made on that day. So he says that he 
spoke to the branch manager of Al Rayan to check that the payment would be made that 
day and was told that would be the case if he requested the payment before the cut off time. 
The director requested the payment online within the cut off time. However, the payment 
was not made until the next day.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
She was of the view that B wouldnt have been able to do anything differently to avoid the 
late fees. So she didnt think that Al Rayan should be asked to reimburse the fees. However, 
she was of the view that B was put to inconvenience as a result of certain failures by Al 
Rayan and therefore considered that a payment of £200 would be fair compensation for it. 
Al Rayan acknowledged that it did not sufficiently manage the expectation of B but it 
considers that a payment of £50 is adequate in the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, essentially for the 
same reasons.
Like the investigator I think that the branch manager ought to have managed the directors 
expectation when he contacted the branch, specifically to check that the payment would be 
made that day. It is also the case that there was some administrative backlog at the time 
which may have contributed to the delay. There was no guarantee that the payment would 
be made on the same day. And like the investigator I consider it more likely that B would not 
have been able to do anything differently to avoid the late fees, as the company was able 
make the payment on that day only. However, it is apparent that it was inconvenienced 
because the payment was not made as expected and I consider that the bank's actions 
contributed to it. 
I have considered what the bank has said but I am not persuaded that its offer to pay £50 is 
fair compensation for what had happened. I consider that the investigators recommendation 
of £200 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Al Rayan Bank 
Plc should pay B £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman