DRN-3295944
The complaint
Ms B complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a scam 
while trying to buy a second-hand horsebox.
What happened
Ive discussed this complaint and the outcome in depth with both parties. As such theres no 
need for me to go into extensive detail here as both Metro and Ms B are aware of the 
circumstances of the complaint. In summary:
Ms B found an advert for a horsebox on a legitimate website that allows sellers to 
post classifieds for equestrian related items.
Ms B contacted the seller to discuss the horsebox. Unfortunately, she was 
communicating with a scammer and the sale was entirely fictitious 
The scammer provided Ms B with additional information about the horsebox and 
more photos of it. Ms B carried out a DVLA check which showed no issues with the 
horsebox. The scammer explained they were looking for a quick sale as theyd 
moved out of the country. And so a price of £13,000 was agreed.
The scammer explained that theyd contracted the services of a business (which Ill 
refer to as C) that would manage the sale and delivery of the horsebox. Ms B was 
given the details for C which she was able to check online. She was told that she 
could either go and see the horsebox in person at Cs premises or have it delivered 
and inspect it then.
Ms B found C on Companies House and could see it was a genuine business, 
established for several years. Its business purpose seemed to relate to the services 
the scammer had said it offered. C also had a website which Ms B was able to look 
at and which seemed legitimate. But all the genuine details of C had been copied 
from a legitimate company, and the website had been set up by the scammers.
For the sale to go through, and for Ms Bs protection, it was explained that shed pay 
the money for the horsebox to C. It would then hold on to the money whilst the 
horsebox was delivered, and Ms B had a chance to inspect it. The funds would only 
be released to the scammer once Ms B confirmed she was happy with the purchase. 
 Once the sale was agreed C was in direct contact with Ms B. It sent her an invoice 
which confirmed the sale and the details of where payment should be sent. Ms B 
proceeded to send an initial payment of £6,500. Once C confirmed receipt and said 
the horsebox was out for delivery, she sent the remaining £6,500.
When Ms B made the first payment Metro blocked it for a fraud check. After 
answering some questions the payment was allowed to go through.
Ms B realised something was wrong when the horsebox wasnt delivered as 
promised. Some further investigation online revealed the genuine details for C. Ms B 
got in touch and the staff there explained it didnt offer the services Ms B described 
and it had no idea who she was.
Ms B reported the scam to Metro and it considered whether it ought to refund her 
under the Lending Standards Boards CRM Code, of which it is a signatory. It 
declined to do so as it felt it had given Ms B an effective warning when she was 
making the payments. It also said Ms B hadnt carried out enough checks and so 
lacked a reasonable basis of belief. Specifically, it said shed not seen the horsebox 
before agreeing to buy it.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Bs complaint after she brought it to our 
service. The investigator said the complaint ought to be upheld on the basis that:
owhilst Metro had given some warnings (in the form of written warnings on its 
app and the phone call with Ms B at payment one) they didnt meet the 
Codes requirements for an effective warning; 
oMs B had a reasonable basis of belief given that there appeared to be no 
issues with the horsebox and C seemed to be a legitimate business that 
would be managing the sale.
oshe recommended Metro refund Ms Bs loss in full. She said it should add 
interest calculated at the originating account rate, from the date Metro 
declined the claim to the date of settlement.
Metro agreed to refund Ms B 50% of her loss, accepting it hadnt provided an 
effective warning. But it still felt Ms B had lacked a reasonable basis of belief. And so 
the case has come to me for a final decision.
Ive since discussed the complaint with both parties and explained why I consider it 
ought to be upheld. As Metro has continued to disagree, Im issuing this final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive discussed the detail of my findings with each party its only necessary for me to 
summarise my reasons for upholding the complaint here.
Ms B authorised the payments to the scammer and so the starting position in law is that she 
is responsible for them, as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of her account. But thats not the end of the story.
Metro is a signatory to the CRM Code which is in place to protect the victims of fraud from 
financial harm. The Code sets out that a signatory firm should refund victims of APP scams 
 like Ms B  in all but a limited range of circumstances. It is for a firm to show that a 
consumer has failed to meet their requisite level of care under the Code. In doing so a firm 
must demonstrate that one or more exceptions to reimbursement apply. 
Metro has said at least one of these exceptions apply. It originally argued that Ms B ignored 
an effective warning. But its since accepted the warning it gave didnt meet the requirements 
of the Code under the standards for firms. That being the case, I wont go on to make further 
findings on this point given liability on Metros part is already established and accepted. Its 
why it has offered a refund of 50%.
The remaining argument Metro is relying on to decline a full refund is that Ms B didnt do 
enough to ensure the sale was genuine and didnt view the horsebox first. The exception to 
reimbursement here, set out in the Code, asks the question as to whether Ms B had a 
reasonable basis for believing the goods she was looking to obtain, and the party she sought 
to obtain them from, were legitimate.
Im not persuaded that Metro has shown this exception to reimbursement fairly and 
reasonably applies. In summary:Ms B found the advert for the horsebox on a legitimate website;
The content of the advert and the details for the horsebox were more likely than not 
stolen from an otherwise genuine advert and contained a lot of convincing 
information. It appeared altogether genuine;
The correspondence from the scammer raised no suspicions and the emails were 
well crafted, complete with genuine sounding reasons for the sale and with further 
vehicle history being provided;
Ms B checked the details for C to make sure it was a genuine company. She found it 
on Companies House and it had a legitimate looking website. Correspondence from 
C came from legitimate looking email addresses, convincing invoices were provided, 
and the services offered were clearly explained to Ms B.
Metro has said an HPI check wasnt carried out but has provided nothing to suggest 
such a check would have made a difference here; and
Ms B was offered the opportunity to view the horsebox before purchasing it. She was 
unable to do so because of the distance between her and the horsebox. But the 
services being offered by what appeared to be a legitimate business (C) gave 
understandable comfort that shed be protected.
Im satisfied these points cover all objections made by Metro and its put forward no further 
substantive arguments to support its position. As such it hasnt demonstrated that an 
exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied. This isnt to say theres nothing else Ms B 
might have done before proceeding with the sale. But that isnt the question to be answered. 
Its whether her basis of belief at the time was reasonable. And I find it was. 
Metro ought to have refunded Ms B when she raised the scam and so its fair and 
reasonable it compensates Ms B to that effect now.
Putting things right
Metro should now:
refund the £13,000 Ms B lost to the scam;
pay interest on that amount using the applicable account rate and calculated from the 
date the claim was declined to the date settlement is paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman