DRN-3862043
The complaint
Mr and Ms T complain that Citibank, N.A. did not refund a series of disputed transactions.
 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances surrounding the complaint, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. In summary, Mr and Ms T were scammed when attempting to sell 
furniture online. The scammer asked for their debit card details so they could pay for a 
courier to collect the furniture. When Ms T was told she would receive a code she says she 
got suspicious and blocked the scammer. Despite this, three lots of £1,000 left their current 
account with Citibank. 
As the payments that went through were authorised using One Time Passcodes (OTPs), 
Citibank determined that the payments were authorised. This is because the OTPs were 
required in order for the payments to succeed. As they had reason to believe Ms T either 
passed on or entered the OTPs herself, they felt the payments were therefore authorised 
and did not agree to refund them. They pointed to the terms and conditions that state they 
will not refund authorised transactions. 
Our Investigator agreed with Citibank and did not think that they needed to refund the 
£3,000. Mr and Ms T disagreed with this. They said that they received the texts for the OTPs 
after the funds had already debited the account so felt the complaint should be upheld. 
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Ive first considered if I think the payments were authorised or not. Generally, Citibank is able 
to hold Mr and Ms T liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not that they made or authorised them themselves. This position is confirmed in 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the account.
From what Ive seen, the payments were made using the genuine card details. While this is 
important, it isnt enough on its own to say Mr and Ms T are liable for the transactions. 
Citibank also has to show its more likely than not that Mr and Ms T made or otherwise 
authorised the transactions themselves.
It is not in dispute that Ms T passed her card details onto the scammer and this is how her 
genuine card details were used to initiate the payment. There is a dispute over whether or 
not Ms T also passed on the OTPs which were required to process the payment and this will 
be discussed in more detail later.
 For the purposes of this part of the complaint about authorisation, Ive considered whether I 
think Ms T authorised for the payments to be made regardless of whether or not she passed 
on the OTPs. 
Ultimately, regardless of whether or not Ms T passed on or entered the OTPs herself, I dont 
think this means, in this particular circumstance, that she therefore consented to the 
transactions. The PSRs state how consent is given  its not something thats open to 
interpretation. They say it must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, 
agreed between Mr and Ms T and carried out but Citibank. However, in Ms Ts case, there 
was no agreed form and procedure between herself and Citibank as she was unaware that 
the transactions were occurring. And she was not reasonably aware that she was consenting 
to a payment being authorised when passing on or entering the OTPs, particularly as she 
was expecting to receive money. So, on balance, regardless of whether or not the OTP was 
shared by Mr and Ms T, I dont think the payments were authorised. This means Citibank 
cannot automatically hold Mr and Ms T liable for the transactions.
There are some circumstances, however, in which Mr and Ms T can be held liable for 
unauthorised transactions made from their account. The PSRs say that Citibank can hold Mr 
and Ms T liable for disputed unauthorised transactions where theyve been grossly negligent 
in failing to comply with their obligations relating to their account. Among other things, those 
obligations are that they must take all reasonable steps to keep safe their personalised 
security credentials. Looking at the account terms and conditions, Citibank states they will 
not refund an unauthorised transaction if you have deliberately or very carelessly failed to 
keep the personalised security features of your Payment Instrument or your Account safe. 
And I think the personalised security features includes the OTPs.
Ive firstly considered whether I think its more likely Ms T shared the OTP with the scammer 
or entered it herself to validate the payment. Ms T has said she received the texts containing 
the OTPs after the funds had already debited her account, so could not have passed them 
on or used them. Citibank has said the timings for the OTP texts being sent correspond with 
the transactions being approved and any issues with the timing of the texts is likely due to an 
issue with the time and date setting on Ms Ts mobile phone. 
Ive considered the evidence available to me. Citibank has provided evidence showing that 
OTPs were used in order to validate the three transactions. And they have provided 
evidence that these were sent to Ms Ts mobile phone number. This alone is enough to 
make me think its more likely Ms T passed on the OTPs or used them herself to validate the 
payments, as it was not possible for the transactions to be completed without them. 
Ive gone on to consider the chat log that Ms T provided between herself and the scammer. 
In this I can see that at one point the scammer asks if Ms T had received a code, and then 
asks her to try typing it in again. This suggest Ms T may have received the OTPs at that 
point and was being asked to input them into the link she received.  
Ive listened to the phone call between Ms T and Citibanks fraud department after her 
account was blocked. In this, Ms T is asked if the transactions appear on her online banking 
and she confirms there are three payments of £1,000 pending. The call handler asks Ms T if 
she had received any OTPs and she confirms she had received a lot. This contradicts what 
Ms T has said to us, that she received the OTPs after this call and after the payments 
debited the account. I understand that memories can fade over time, but this makes it 
difficult for me to rely on Ms Ts version of events. Based on the phone call that Ive listened 
to, Ms T had received a number of OTPs and at that point the payments were pending, so  I 
think its likely that the OTPs were therefore used to process the transactions. 
Considering everything available to me so far, I currently think its more likely Ms T did pass 
on the OTPs or use them herself to process the three transactions of £1,000. So, Ive gone 
on to consider whether or not I think she did so very carelessly, or with gross negligence.
In the phone call between Ms T and the fraud department at Citibank, Ms T explained that 
she was trying to receive £50 using her Citibank card, but the message said she was trying to send £1,000. Its more likely Ms T was referencing the OTP text messages that read Citi 
will never ask you to share this code. Your One Time Password for your transaction to 
[merchant] for GBP 1,000 is.
Considering this, Im satisfied that Ms T read the text message and identified there was a 
potential risk, as she mentioned to the fraud team that the texts said she was trying to send 
£1,000 when she was expecting to receive £50 into the account. Its therefore clear Ms T 
noticed the discrepancy before passing on the OTPs.
Looking at the chat logs between Ms T and the scammer, there was no time pressure placed 
on the situation, meaning she was not being pushed to complete the sale within a specific 
time period. So, I dont think there was a specific urgency to the transaction.
Despite the identified risk, alongside the clear message within the texts warning her never to 
share the code, I think its more likely Ms T passed on or entered the OTPs herself. Based 
on what Ive seen so far, I dont consider the scam to be particularly sophisticated and with 
the lack of urgency as well as the risk that had been identified by Ms T, I think the passing 
on of the OTPs amounts to gross negligence. So, I dont currently think Citibank needs to 
refund the £3,000 to Mr and Ms T.
Ive considered if there is any other reason why it would not be fair to hold Mr and Ms T 
liable for the unauthorised transactions, and having carefully considered everything available 
to me, Ive not identified anything. So, for the reasons outlined above, I currently do not 
intend to uphold Mr and Ms Ts complaint.  
Citibank responded to the provisional decision and agreed with the findings. 
Mr and Ms T responded with the following additional points:
Ms T blocked the scammer prior to receiving any OTPs.
In the initial phone call with Citibank in which Ms T was asked if she had authorised 
any payments, she had not received any OTPs and told them that. She rang back 
once she had received the OTPs several hours later.
Ms T has asked how Citibank managed to stop several payments succeeding but did 
not manage to stop the three lots of £1,000. 
Ms T has provided evidence from her phone company stating that the time of arrival 
of messages is as per the phone records. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill respond to Mr and Ms Ts additional comments. 
Ive firstly focussed on the telephone call recording I listened to, which Ms T has indicated 
was the second phone call that day which she made after she received the OTPs. However, 
Im satisfied this was the initial phone call, as both the call handler and Ms T confirm she had 
missed the previous attempted call, meaning this was the first contact made about the 
transactions. 
In this call, Ms T is asked whether she authorised the transactions, which Ms T has indicated 
occurred in the initial phone call. As mentioned in my provisional decision, Ms T confirmed in 
that initial phone call that she had received several OTPs and the payments were pending 
on their online account. And I think its likely the OTPs were therefore used to authorise the payments. 
Mr and Ms T have asked how Citibank managed to stop several payments but were unable 
to stop the three lots of £1,000. This is because the OTPs were used to authorise the three 
transactions in question, but were not used for the other attempted transactions, which is 
why there were not authorised and therefore were unsuccessful. So, it isnt the case that 
Citibank stopped the other payments, instead the added layer of security in the form of the 
OTPs were not inputted to authorise the other transactions. 
We have sent Mr and Ms T the evidence from Citibank showing the transactions were 
authorised using the OTPs and that these were sent from 11:50am GMT. I appreciate there 
has been some confusion caused as the statements Mr and Ms T provided show the times 
as British Summer Time (BST), which is +1hour when compared to GMT. 
Ms T has questioned some of this information, including that the transactions had an alert 
level. The alert level is what prompts OTPs to be sent to the consumers mobile phone 
number as an added layer of security, which is what happened in this case. Ms T has also 
questioned what happened to the initial transaction of 73p, as this also had the OTP entered. 
As this did not form part of the £3,000 loss Mr and Ms T raised a complaint about, this hasnt 
been looked into further. And I dont think any possible issues with this payment affect my 
findings that the OTPs were entered as the evidence suggests.
While I appreciate that Mr and Ms T have sent correspondence from their phone provider 
that says the timestamp on a mobile phone shows the arrival time of a message, and they 
feel this shows they received the OTPs after the payments had been authorised, I have to 
look at all of the evidence as a whole. Having done so, as the payments were authorised by 
OTPs, and the only way this is possible is by the OTPs physically being used to authorise 
the payments, Im satisfied its more likely Mr and Ms T passed on or otherwise used the 
OTPs to authorise the payments. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I therefore feel the passing on of the OTPs 
amounts to gross negligence on Mr and Ms Ts part and why Citibank is able to hold them 
liable for the payments. So, for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think 
Citibank needs to refund the £3,000 to Mr and Ms T.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Ms Ts complaint against Citibank, N.A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman