DRN-4291112
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with several aspects of the service that shes received from Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
What happened
Miss C raised a complaint with Halifax because she was unhappy that some direct debits 
shed authorised werent being paid correctly. Miss C was also unhappy that a cash deposit 
shed made in branch didnt show in her account for several days and with the service shed 
received in branch regarding that. And she also felt that Halifax were addressing her account 
statements incorrectly and that they werent sending the full statements in the post.
Halifax responded to Miss C and apologised for the troubles shed experienced regarding 
the direct debits and confirmed that all direct debits on her account now appeared to be 
active and functioning as appropriate. Halifax also apologised if the service Miss C had 
received when in branch hadnt been to the standard she should reasonably expect. Finally, 
Halifax didnt agree with Miss Cs complaint about her account statements and noted that 
they all appeared to have been addressed correctly and that full statements had been sent. 
Miss C wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Halifax had provided a fair 
response to Miss Cs complaint but felt that in addition to an apology Halifax should pay 
£150 to Miss C as compensation for the trouble and upset shed incurred. Halifax accepted 
the view of our investigator, but Miss C didnt feel that £150 compensation amount went far 
enough. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel that Halifaxs response to Miss Cs complaint was fair. This included 
that Halifax apologised for the trouble Miss C had experienced with her direct debits, and for 
the poor service Miss C may have received while in branch which may have caused her 
deposit to credit her account late. But it also included that Halifax didnt feel theyd done 
anything wrong or unfair regarding the account statements they were sending to Miss C.
When a business acknowledges that it made mistakes, as Halifax have done here, it would 
be generally expected by this service that the business would take the corrective action 
necessary to correct those mistakes.
I think that Halifax have done that here. And I say this because at the time they issued their 
complaint response theyd reviewed the direct debits that Miss C was having problems with, 
and confirmed that they were set up appropriately and that the correct payments were being 
made. And Halifax also confirmed that they had reviewed Miss Cs account statements and 
were satisfied that they were being issued correctly.
Additional to any corrective action, it would also be generally expected by this service that a 
business which has made a mistake would consider whether any compensation should fairly 
be offered to a complainant in consideration of the trouble and upset that complainant may 
have incurred because of the business mistake.
Halifax didnt offer Miss C any compensation in their complaint response. But theyve said 
that this was because Miss C made it clear that she didnt want to accept an offer of 
compensation from them and wanted to bring her complaint to this service. And Halifax have 
accepted our investigators recommendation to pay £150 compensation to Miss C.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But given the circumstance for which 
compensation is being considered here  the difficulties Miss C experienced with her direct 
debits and the poor service she felt that she received in branch - £150 seems like a 
reasonable amount to me. And I confirm that its commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Halifax to pay had they not already agreed to do so.
In taking this position Ive considered the impact that the direct debit difficulties and poor 
service in branch may have had on Miss C, and Ive also considered the general framework 
this service uses when assessing compensation amounts  details of which are on this 
services website. And having done so, I feel that £150 is fair amount. And I dont feel that 
the substantially larger amount of compensation that Miss C would like me to instruct here 
would be fair or appropriate, given the points of consideration which Ive described.
Accordingly, while I will be upholding this complaint in Miss Cs favour, Ill only be doing so to 
instruct Halifax to pay the £150 to Miss C that theyve already agreed to pay. And I wont be 
instructing Halifax to take any further or alternative action beyond this. I realise this might not 
be the outcome Miss C was wanting. But I hope that shell understand, given what Ive 
explained, what Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Halifax must make a payment of £150 to Miss C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman