DRN-4252735
The complaint
Mr R complains about the settlement payment U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered him 
following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R says UKI undervalued his car after it was stolen. He was told it would take 10 days to 
settle the claim, but it took a further month for this to happen. Mr R says he was offered a 
hire car, which he rejected. He says he doesnt like hatchbacks and expected a like-for-like 
car to be provided. Because of this he was without a car for six weeks. Mr R says UKI 
should pay him at least £4,000 for his car.  
In its complaint response UKI acknowledged a delay in settling Mr Rs claim. It offered him 
£200 compensation and said it would consider any additional travel costs he could evidence. 
It says the market value of Mr Rs car was calculated fairly based on industry trade guide 
valuations. And the hire car it offered was in line with his policy terms. 
Mr R didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says UKIs approach to valuing Mr Rs car was 
fair and the hire car he was offered was in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. He 
thought £200 was fair to acknowledge the delay in settling the claim. Our investigator also 
confirmed with UKI that it will pay £149.50 to Mr R for the travel costs hed demonstrated. 
Mr R maintained his car was worth more than UKI offered, and he thought £400 
compensation was fairer. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Let me explain. 
I can understand that Mr R wants the best offer he can get following the theft of his car. Ive 
read his policy terms to understand whats expected. The terms say the policy provides the 
market value in the case of a total loss following the theft of an insured vehicle. 
The policy booklet defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss 
Our service doesnt provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we 
obtain valuations from the motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I note Mr R refers to vehicles advertised for sale that cost more than UKIs settlement offer. 
However, we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. Ive looked at the adverts Mr R provided. 
However, its not clear what the age or mileage of these vehicles is. The for sale prices 
advertised arent necessarily the price these vehicles sold for. This doesnt persuade me that 
the trade guide approach to valuing Mr Rs car is unfair.  
I looked at the valuations our investigator obtained to see how he established that UKIs 
settlement offer was fair. I can see he used the same make, model, mileage, age, and date 
of loss. The valuations he was able to obtain were £1,680 and £2,225. The values UKI 
obtained were £1,870 and £2,225. It offered the average of these valuations, which came to 
£2,048. This is higher than the average of the valuations our investigator obtained. 
Valuing second-hand cars isnt an exact science. Id expect there to be a range of values 
when using the trade guides. In these circumstances paying an average of the valuations 
seems fair. So, I dont think UKIs settlement offer was unreasonable.  
Ive thought about Mr Rs comments that he took good care of his car. Also, that hes spent 
extra on special tyres, mirrors, and a phone/satnav system. Mr R hasnt explained why he 
thinks the tyres would increase the market value of his car. But this isnt something that 
would be expected to impact on the valuation. Similarly, Im not persuaded from Mr Rs 
comments that mirrors and a phone/satnav system would have a significant impact on the 
cars value. I dont dispute that Mr R took good care of his car. But Im satisfied the valuation 
approach taken by UKI was fair. 
Ive thought about Mr Rs comment that he expected a hire vehicle similar to his car to be 
provided, and that he didnt want a hatchback. I can see from his policy schedule that Mr R 
had Guaranteed Hire Car Plus cover. His policy schedule says:
Amount of time you can have the car for: 
- if you use an approved repairer - Duration of Repair
- if you use a different repairer - 21 days  
- Travel costs £50 per day up to £500 per claim.
The policy booklet under the section on Guaranteed Hire Car Plus says:
Well give you a hire car of a similar physical size to yours, if your car is damaged in an 
incident, written off or stolen Similar physical size - A hire car up to a Class F for cars with 
5 seats, or up to a Mini MPV for cars with 7 or more seats. The hire car company will define 
the class of car.
Well always try to provide you with a hire car thats a similar physical size to your car, but 
sometimes one may not be available. We cannot guarantee that your hire car will be the 
same as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status.
The records state that Mr R was offered a hire car but he, didnt agree the documents. I 
havent seen further information regarding the car that was offered. However, Mr Rs 
complaint centres on this being a hatchback. Ive thought carefully about whether UKI treated Mr R fairly. I think it did. The terms are clear 
that a similar size hire car will be provided. It isnt guaranteed that the hire car will the same 
as the insured vehicle. Or that this wont be a hatchback. I acknowledge Mr R doesnt like 
this type of vehicle, but he hasnt explained why he wasnt able to use it. I dont think UKI 
behaved unfairly or contrary to the terms of his policy in offering the hire car it did. 
It took around six weeks for UKI to confirm a settlement offer for Mr Rs car. I think this 
shouldve been arranged quicker. UKI doesnt dispute this point and offered £200 for its 
delay. Ive thought about the impact this delay had on Mr R. He was without a vehicle for this 
period. However, it was his choice to refuse the hire car that was offered. Had he accepted 
the hire vehicle the impact of not having a car wouldve been avoided. Mr R has shown that 
he incurred costs for rail travel during this period. I think its fair that UKI reimbursed these 
costs. But I dont think UKI should pay Mr R further compensation. 
Im sorry Mr Rs car was stolen, and that he remains unhappy with the settlement payment 
UKI offered. But I dont think it acted unfairly when relying on its policy terms and offering the 
settlement payment it did. There was a delay in dealing with the claim, but I think UKIs 
compensation payment for £200 is reasonable. So, I cant fairly ask it to pay anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman