DRN-3482014
The complaint
Miss G complains that when Motability Operations Limited (Motability) were provided with a 
General Power of Attorney they were wrong to refuse to allow her to continue to act on her 
account.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Miss G has been represented in this complaint by her father but for ease, and as Miss G is 
listed on the finance agreement, I will refer only to her in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Miss G is upset that Motability were only prepared to discuss her account with the nominated 
attorney when a General Power of Attorney (GPOA) was lodged with them. Its her position 
that the nature of the GPOA meant she had mental capacity and should have been able to 
discuss her account with Motability in the same way as her attorney was. Miss G and her 
representative have provided their thorough interpretation of the law on this matter. 
On the other hand, Motability say its their policy in these situations only to discuss matters 
with the attorney.
I think that important issue is one that a court needs to answer. Its not for this service to 
make legal decisions but I can consider, as the investigator did, whether Motability have 
been fair in the way they handled Miss Gs complaint. I think they have.
It's for Motability to decide the processes they use, and theyve explained that when a GPOA 
is lodged with them they always only speak to the attorney. Theyve explained thats 
because they have to ensure any decision made on an agreement is made by an individual 
who does not lack capacity whatsoever so they can mitigate any risk to vulnerable 
consumers.
Theyve referred the issue to their legal team and have provided a detailed response on the 
matter; clearly setting out their position. So, whilst I understand the important matter may still 
need to be decided by a court, I dont think Motability have been unfair in the way theyve 
handled Miss Gs complaint. Theyve provided a detailed and considered response and Im 
not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman