DRN-2456585
The complaint
Mr B is seeking to recover £127,080 from Lloyds Bank PLC, which was stolen from his bank 
account as a result of a third-party scam.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B was cold called by an individual claiming to be representing an investment 
company. However unfortunately for Mr B he was in fact speaking to a fraudster. The 
fraudster persuaded him to invest with the possibility of an 8% return.    
In June 2018 Mr B made his first investment in branch of £6,000. In total he unfortunately 
invested almost £128,000 over a period of 9 months. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and thought that Lloyds should have identified 
the transaction and prevented the scam. And if they had done so, and asked appropriate 
probing questions of Mr B the scam would have been identified, and Mr B wouldnt have 
made the first payment or any thereafter. Our investigator recommended that Mr B was 
refunded the full amount of the disputed transactions plus 8% interest. 
Lloyds didnt accept our investigators conclusion and in response said:
Mr B is an experienced investor and had the relevant contacts to seek advice before 
investing.
The member of staff wasnt trained in investment experience.
Mr B didnt appear confused or under duress.
Mr B felt very strongly this was a very legitimate investment.
A High value checklist was completed each time.
However, Lloyds did accept they should have done more to prevent Mr B making the 
transactions after theyd been contacted by Mr Bs wealth manager on the 
11 December 2019. And they offered to refund the disputed transactions which occurred 
after this date a total of £43,947.50 plus 8% interest. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues looked into Mr Bs complaint and in general were in 
agreement with our investigator. In summary, the ombudsman thought that Lloyds should 
have identified that Mr B was being scammed, and should have done more. They shared 
their provisional thoughts with Lloyds and recommended that Lloyds refund the disputed 
transactions, interest at the account rate and £400 in compensation. 
Lloyds didnt agree with the ombudsmans proposal and in response said:
They dont believe the first disputed transaction to be out of character, based on 
previous large transactions, including one of almost £10,000.
The first disputed transaction wasnt particularly high.
The bank highlighted the Phillips v Barclay Bank ruling. The Courts determined that it 
was agreed there should be no extension of the Quincecare duty where the transfer 
is properly and lawfully authorised by the customer.
The Court decision neither imposes an obligation on the paying bank to question the 
customers own instructions or the genuineness of the intended recipient. When the 
Bank receives a payment instruction, its primary duty is to make that payment and 
the circumstances in which the bank can deviate from that instruction are limited. And 
there were no indicators present at the time of the first transaction that should have 
reasonably prompted the bank to take further action. 
The bank blocked the second payment, highlighted their concerns to Mr B however 
he returned to the branch an hour later and was confident the payment was genuine. 
The bank doesnt agree Mr B was vulnerable due to his age, he was a seasoned 
investor who at this point was managing his finances without support and whilst 
notes show the branch initially had concerns, this is why they asked Mr B to complete 
further research to check this wasnt a scam before agreeing to send the funds.
Mr B was a seasoned investor with a financial advisor, therefore it is reasonable that 
he would have completed due diligence himself before making the payments and had 
easy access to professional advice.
The police were called but Mr B still felt he the investments he was making were 
genuine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr B was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, although 
he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate. 
Im aware that Lloyds considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm; 
and it has referred to the recent Phillips v Barclays judgement and the Quincecare duty in 
support of its argument. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what 
we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account not 
just the law, but also regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time
Lloyds have accepted that it should have intervened in December 2018 after receiving 
contact from Mr Bs financial advisor to say he believed Mr B was being scammed. However 
I need to consider whether Lloyds should have intervened sooner.  Lloyds have argued that 
the first transfer of £6,000 made on the 29 May 2018 wasnt unusual based on the size of 
previous payments. But Im afraid I dont agree with them here. Lloyds are right that Mr B 
previously made three large transactions in the previous 12 months, one payment for almost 
£10,000 and too smaller transactions of around £4,000. However the first payment was 
made to an existing payee, in fact Mr Bs instant saving account and the other two were over 
the counter cash withdrawals. The first disputed transaction was made via bank transfer, and 
was an international payment made to a new payee both additional factors leading me to 
conclude that it was unusual and Id have expected Lloyds to identify this. 
Id therefore expect Lloyds to have asked questions of Mr B in branch, when making this first 
payment. Ive not seen any evidence that questions were asked of Mr B when carrying out 
the first transaction. Lloyds have argued that a high value checklist was completed prior to 
this transaction, along with a scam warning and Mr B wanted to proceed with the 
transaction. But Ive not seen any evidence to indicate any questions were asked of Mr B or 
an in depth conversation took place. 
In my judgment, they could and should have done more, particularly given the requirements 
of the Banking Protocol which encourages staff to ask probing questions and to get into the 
detail in order to test the purpose of the payment. 
If Lloyds had asked questions of Mr B Im satisfied that the bank should have identified the 
possibility that Mr B was being scammed. There were a number of factors which I think 
would have raised concerns for Lloyds if theyd asked appropriate questions. These include 
the fraudsters cold calling Mr B, it wasnt regulated in the UK, by June 2018 the FCA had 
published a warning about the business and Mr B had very limited paperwork about the 
opportunity. I also noted that Mr B expected to get an 8% annual return on the investment, 
which is an unusually high return. All these should have raised red flags with Lloyds. Ive 
also considered Mr Bs vulnerability  Mr B was 88 years old at the time of the scam. And 
therefore considered vulnerable. Being the experts in financial crime and scams Id have 
expected Lloyds at the very least to have concerns about the possibility of fraud here, and 
not allowed the payment to go through. 
Lloyds have evidenced and highlighted that they asked a number of questions when Mr B 
made the second payment, referred it to their fraud team and blocked it. But despite Mr B 
leaving the branch he returned an hour later and remained convinced he wanted the 
payment processed. The bank has also raised that Mr Bs financial advisor was unable to 
convince him he was being scammed. Im satisfied that Lloyds did make some attempts to 
persuade Mr B this might be a scam  however the bank are the experts in financial crime 
and the banking protocol allows them to go further if appropriate. Lloyds argue that they did 
contact the police at some point  however Ive not seen any evidence of this, and Mr Bs 
family argue instead they contacted the police once they became aware of the scam.  
Im not satisfied Lloyds did enough and I think had it done more, there is a potential that the 
whole scam would have unravelled from the beginning. Im also aware that as the scam 
progressed Mr B was being threatened by the scammer that unless he invested more he 
would lose all the previous investments. Ive thought about the impact this might have had  
and I think its likely this might explain Mr Bs reluctance to listen to his financial advisor part way through the scam.  If Lloyds had intervened at the start, as Id have expected, this would 
likely have reduced the pressure on Mr B and increased the likelihood hed have to listened 
to Lloyds expert advice. And I think on balance its likely the spell could have been broken. 
Lloyds themselves agree payments should have been blocked and the spell broken from 
December onwards, considering the bank has agreed to refund payments from this date. 
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. Ive not seen any 
evidence that Lloyds tried to recover the funds however due to the passing of time, and the 
period over which the scam occurred I find it unlikely any funds would remain. 
Ive considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Lloyds have argued that Mr B was an experienced investor, who had a financial 
advisor that he could have consulted and later didnt take the advice of. However its clear 
that up to and including the time of authorising the payments, he was still totally in the dark 
and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the consequences of his actions. Ive 
also taken into account Mr Bs age, 88, and his subsequent increased vulnerability. Ive 
already explained why I think Mr B didnt listen to the advice given by his financial advisor  
he was under pressure by this point and I dont think his actions from this point on were 
unreasonable. Im therefore satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, 
he was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Mr B was a vulnerable layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied Lloyds should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr B for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost.  The majority of Mr Bs money was located in a savings 
account and I think on balance its likely Mr B wouldnt have utilised the money if he wasnt 
contacted by the fraudsters. Therefore reimbursement at the rate of the account interest 
seems fair. 
I also think it is appropriate to make an award of £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr B has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that his loss was ultimately 
caused by the callous act of a fraudster and these were unauthorised transactions, but 
Lloyds could ultimately have prevented the payments. 
Putting things right:
Refund Mr B the disputed transactions a total of £127,080. Pay interest from the date 
of the payments to the date the money is refunded based on the account rates from 
where the money originated. 
Pay Mr B £400 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr B the 
redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Jeff BurchOmbudsman