DRN-3139220
Complaint
Mr T has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCR) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Background 
Mr T bought a battery storage system for his home in 2017. The purchase for the battery 
storage system was funded by a 5-year loan from OCR, and that business is therefore liable 
for the acts and omissions of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr T 
alleges that the system would work alongside his existing solar panel system and increase 
his financial returns to cover the monthly repayments on the OCR loan, meaning that the 
system would be self-funding. Mr T says this has not turned out to be the case.
Mr T (through his representative) made a claim under section 75 of the CCA to OCR. Mr T 
said that what the supplier had told him about the about the system being self-funding was a 
misrepresentation, and it was this misrepresentation that had induced him to enter into the 
contract with it.
OCR said that there was no evidence on any of the sales documentation to support Mr Ts 
claim that his monthly loan repayments would be covered by the increased financial returns. 
It added that the battery storage system had been assessed and was in proper working 
order  so it did not uphold his complaint. 
So, Mr T referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. He concluded, similarly to OCR, that the battery storage system hadnt been 
misrepresented to Mr T.
Mr T disagreed. He re-iterated (through his representatives) that he was led to believe his 
OCR loan repayments would be covered by a combination of greater electricity savings and 
income from the Feed in Tariff (FIT), not solely the electricity savings. He added that the 
fact that there werent specific financial estimates in the documentation doesnt mean there 
wasnt a misrepresentation and he also felt our investigator had not given any weight to his 
verbal testimony. Finally, Mr T said it didnt make sense that he would purchase the battery 
storage system when it would leave him out of pocket.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
As Mr T paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan, OCR agrees that the relevant 
provisions of the CCA, section 56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA, applies to the transaction. 
This means that Mr T could claim against OCR  the creditor  for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have claimed against the 
supplier. So, Ive taken this into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of 
this case.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact made by one party to a second party, 
which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. Having 
reviewed everything submitted by both parties, I must decide whether, on the balance of 
probabilities, the supplier misrepresented the benefits of the battery storage system to Mr T.
Mr T and OCR have submitted a number of documents given to Mr T during the sale 
including his credit agreement. I can see the cost of the system, including the costs 
associated with Mr Ts finance agreement was set out clearly. But having reviewed all the 
documentation provided by both parties, I can see there is no information about the potential 
benefits of the system or how it would work. The only information we have about the 
potential benefits is Mr Ts testimony.
Mr T said that the suppliers told him his monthly repayments to OCR of around £146 a 
month would be covered by what hed make in energy savings and increased FIT payments. 
But he has also said that the supplier didnt give him any written estimates, carry out any 
surveys of his property or of the existing solar panel system. He also mentioned that they 
didnt review any of his electricity bills or FIT statements, only that they looked at Mr Ts 
appliances and suggested the energy stored in the battery could power these. 
Given what Mr T has said, Im not sure how the supplier couldve made any specific 
representations about the increase in likely returns generated by his solar panels system 
due to the battery storage system, when it doesnt seem to have considered his current 
usage, consumption of existing returns. I think Mr T would have recognised that without 
knowing and considering his existing returns, it was not feasible for the supplier to provide 
any assurances about the increase in likely returns in any meaningful way. 
My understanding of how this battery storage system worked is that while it could increase 
the savings on his electricity bills, it wouldnt affect the total amount of energy produced by 
the solar panels. So, his FIT payments would not increase due to the battery storage system 
 it would only store more energy for him to use around the house which could lead to less 
energy being exported to the grid.
So, I now turn to what knowledge and awareness Mr T had about his existing solar panel 
system. Mr Ts solar panels had already been installed at his property for some time (since 
2015) and he was aware of what they were generating at that point - so he was aware of his 
actual returns prior to the battery storage system being installed. Based on the statements 
submitted by Mr T, I can see that by March 2017, he was receiving on average around £40 a 
month in FIT payments. As explained by our investigator, its difficult to get a full picture of 
Mr Ts electricity bills but, from what we can see, his electricity bills were around £55 a 
month so this is the most he could hope to save on his bills. 
I think Mr T would have recognised, that in order for the OCR loan payments of over £146 a 
month to be covered, his new battery storage system would have had to have increased the financial returns generated by the solar panel system by a substantial amount  and based 
on what Ive said about his existing financial returns, I dont think thats plausible
Mr T was making a significant purchase, using finance, so if the suppliers had assured him 
that his returns were likely to increase to such a level that it would cover his loan payments 
of around £146, I would have expected him to have questioned how this substantial increase 
would be achieved and Ive seen no evidence that he did. Mr T has said the supplier did not 
explain any likely increases with any specific figures (in terms of kwh) or discuss actual 
returns in any great depth. 
With all that in mind, while I accept that the sellers likely promoted this battery storage 
system to Mr T by saying it would make him more energy efficient, I dont think its likely that 
the sellers would have sold it on the basis that his loan payments would be covered by the 
increased financial returns made due to the battery storage system. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mr Ts testimony, given what Ive said above, Im 
afraid Im not persuaded that the battery storage system was misrepresented to him in the 
way Mr T now says it was. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely 
there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman