DRN-3736726
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers limited (Chase) gave 
her unsuitable advice to transfer her two Personal Pension Plans (PPPs) from one provider 
to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another. She says there was no benefit to 
the transfer.
Mrs G is represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC), but Ill 
only refer to her in my decision.
What happened
Mrs G had a long-term financial adviser through Chase. He had previously advised her while 
working for another business. He provided regular advice on her PPPs. 
Mrs G said that on 28 October 2019 her adviser recommended that she transfer her existing
PPPs to the Select Portfolio Management Service managed by Chase through a Deferred 
SIPP with a different provider. And that he had previously advised her to transfer from 
another provider to her PPP, for which hed also charged a commission. 
At the time of the advice, Mrs G was 54 years old, and planned to retire at age 65. The 
advice cost 3% of the amount transferred, which was around £2,600. Mrs G said she was 
told that this cost would be covered by the better growth shed get under the new 
arrangement. 
Mrs Gs adviser assessed her attitude to risk, and also produced a Suitability Report for the 
October 2019 advice. This recorded the following:
Mrs G was personally paying £120 each month into one of her existing PPPs. Her 
employer was contributing £805.40 each month into the other. 
She had a total of around £86,000 invested in the two PPPs.
She was married, had no debts and approximately £7,000 in savings
She was employed and was earning around £48,000 each year. 
She had no financial dependants and was a higher rate taxpayer.
Mrs G signed the instruction to proceed with the advice to transfer her PPPs on 5 December 
2019. 
Mrs G complained to Chase in January 2021 through a CMC, about the suitability of the 
2019 advice. They made the following points:
The adviser didnt explain the implications of transferring to a SIPP, including the 
difference in charges, structure and investment spread, to Mrs G.
£86,000 wasnt enough to justify the transfer to a SIPP.
The total fees were higher than those attached to the existing PPPs. 
The option of transferring funds within the existing PPPs wasnt discussed as an 
option. 
They felt that the recommended SIPP provided no additional benefits. 
Chase issued their final response to the complaint in February 2021. They didnt consider 
the advice was unsuitable. They felt that the Suitability Report had clearly shown that, after 
discussions with her adviser, Mrs G had felt that she would benefit from using a discretionary 
investment service. They said that her existing PPP provider didnt offer this service. And 
that Mrs G had agreed to move her PPPs in order to facilitate that option. Chase said that 
the new arrangement was a deferred SIPP, not a full SIPP, so the amount invested - 
£86,000  was appropriate. And that it had a similar charging structure to a PPP. They also 
felt that a full comparison of charges for the existing and the recommended arrangements 
had been clearly shown in the report. So they felt that Mrs G was fully aware of the 
difference when she signed to accept the advice. 
Mrs G made further points to Chase through her CMC. These were:
- The recommended deferred SIPP was the same as a PPP with the option of 
becoming a SIPP in future. So, in effect, Mrs G had transferred her existing PPPs to 
a PPP with a new provider at a cost of 3% of the transfer value. 
- The reason Chase had given for Mrs G agreeing to the transfer was to take 
advantage of a discretionary investment service. But she had no interest in being 
actively involved in the management of her pension or any intention of taking 
advantage the self-investment option in the deferred SIPP now or in the future.
- The existing PPPs offered all funds on a discretionary basis. So Mrs G had 
previously had the option of switching into Managed Funds to reflect her attitude to 
risk, free of charge. There was no advantage for Mrs G to transfer her funds at a cost 
of 3% commission.
- Mrs Gs adviser had selected the funds within the existing PPPs in line with her 
attitude to risk, which he considered to be Cautious to Balanced. If hed no longer 
been happy with the funds hed selected he couldve recommended that Mrs G 
switched funds free of charge within her existing PPPs. Overall, she felt that the 
advice had been commission-driven rather than in her own best interests. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service, through her CMC, in April 2021. She wanted 
compensation for financial losses and charges.
I understand that Mrs G moved her pension on 23 April 2021, on a non-advised basis, from 
the provider recommended in October 2019 to a different provider. 
Our investigator felt that the advice was unsuitable and that the complaint should be upheld. 
He felt that there were no documented reasons about why Mrs G had wanted to review her 
existing PPPs. He felt that the Suitability Report contained no discussion about what Mrs G 
had really been looking to achieve, what she was on track to achieve and how the 
recommended transfer would specifically benefit her. He also considered that the Suitability 
Report didnt include any evidence of an impartial discussion about the differences between 
the recommended deferred SIPP and Mrs Gs existing portfolio.Chase didnt agree with our investigator. They felt that the Suitability Report had shown that 
the annual charges on the new arrangement were the same as existing one, but that the 
new arrangement allowed Mrs G to benefit from a Discretionary Fund Manager. And that 
shed acknowledged that she would prefer such a service. They said such a service wasnt 
available with the existing PPPs. And that the costs, fees and charges were clearly 
documented, so Mrs G had made her decision to transfer on the basis of having the clear 
facts. Chase also provided evidence that the deferred SIPP had outperformed the original 
PPPs during the period it was in place. 
To put things right, our investigator wanted Chase to put Mrs G as close as possible back to 
the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. He also felt 
that they should pay her £300 compensation for the distress theyd caused. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 September 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the advice was 
unsuitable. But Ive made a slightly different recommendation about how to put things right. 
This is because I consider that Mrs G should also be compensated for the investment return 
she wouldve got on any additional pension funds she wouldve transferred to her current 
provider in 2021. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Suitability of advice to switch 
There were various options that Chase needed to consider in deciding what was most 
suitable for Mrs G. These included: 
-leaving her PPPs where they were, invested in the same or different funds; 
-moving to a stakeholder pension or other PPP that mayve offered lower charges;
-moving to a SIPP. 
Chases Suitability Report doesnt appear to give any consideration to Mrs G remaining 
where she was, despite stating on page 3 that her current arrangement continued to meet 
her stated needs and objectives. Neither does the report consider other potential 
investments in the existing arrangement. 
The Suitability Report doesnt consider the option of moving to a stakeholder pension. The 
only mention I can find of a stakeholder pension is on page 13, where recommended 
retirement vehicles were discussed. The adviser recommended the deferred SIPP. But then 
stated: 
I am recommending this in favour of a Stakeholder or standard Personal Pension, as it offers 
a greater fund choice than a Stakeholder and a comparable charging structure to both.
But theres no evidence in the report that research had been conducted on such alternatives. 
Instead, the report favours the deferred SIPP option on the basis that Mrs Gs pension would 
then be managed on a discretionary basis using Chases Select Managed Portfolio Service. 
As our investigator also noted, Ive seen no evidence in the report of an impartial discussion about what Mrs G understood Discretionary Management meant. Or the differences between 
the recommendation and her existing PPPs. Ive also seen no evidence that Mrs G had 
previously had to make any decisions with her existing portfolio that using a Discretionary 
Management service wouldve solved. 
There was certainly no comparison to help Mrs G understand how much more expensive the 
recommendation was than a stakeholder pension. Nor was there any explanation of what a 
stakeholder pension was. There was also no mention that stakeholder pensions charges are 
capped, which is a requirement.
The report noted that Mrs G had: felt that moving to discretionary service was more suited 
to [her] needs as [she] would prefer to pass over full control of investment decisions to 
[Chase] without having to inform and seek agreement when changes are required. 
The report further stated that such an approach would enable Chase to provide: an even 
more proactive investment service to [Mrs G] without having to increase [their] costs as 
Select incurs a flat fee. The report also noted that Chases Select Portfolio Management 
Service wasnt available with Mrs Gs existing provider. 
The report doesnt go into any detail about why Mrs G was suddenly interested in a 
discretionary service. Ive seen no evidence that she reasonably needed such a service. Im 
of the view that it wouldve been more appropriate for the adviser to have put Mrs G at ease 
that her current service was reasonable rather than facilitating such a costly switch. I say this 
because I cant reasonably say that there was potential for Mrs G to be better off.  
From what Ive seen, the main advantage Chase used to recommend the transfer was so 
Mrs G could pass on full control of investment decisions to them. But from what Ive seen, 
Mrs G was effectively doing that already. And therefore I dont consider that she wouldve 
benefited much, if at all, from such a service. As there was no obvious benefit to Mrs G of 
such a service, Im not persuaded that the transfer was worth the 3% initial charge. Im also 
not persuaded that the transfer shouldve been recommended on the basis that the Select 
service wasnt available within the existing arrangement. In order for the advice to be 
suitable, Chase needed to justify their recommendation against other possible options. 
The Suitability Report also said: the overall costs, when factoring in the additional charges I 
would have to make when making changes to your portfolio, are likely to be lower. Im not 
persuaded by this statement. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs G was an active investor who 
made many changes to her portfolio. And therefore I consider it extremely unlikely that 
charges overall would likely be lower under the new arrangement, especially when 
considering the 3% initial charge.
I also note that on page 10 of the Suitability Report, consolidation of Mrs Gs PPPs was 
listed as a benefit. The report noted that she was currently paying different charges for the 
two existing PPPs. The report went on to state that: The switch of your plans to [SIPP 
provider] will allow both contributions to be paid into one pension account with one set of 
charges. 
Ive seen no evidence that the adviser investigated or tried to explain why Mrs G was paying 
much higher charges for the smaller plan, into which her own contributions were being paid, 
than the bigger one, into which her employer was contributing. In my view, before he could 
reasonably list consolidation as a benefit of his recommendation, he shouldve questioned 
whether it was possible to consolidate the existing arrangements into a single, cheaper plan. 
The Suitability Report covered charges on page 16. It showed that the smaller of the two 
existing plans had annual charges totalling 2.8%, against the recommended plans charges of 2.298%. And the bigger of the two plans had charges totalling 1.9%. 
The report didnt show the weighted average of the charges by fund size. I consider that this 
was unhelpful. Based on the information in the Suitability Report, Ive assessed the weighted 
average annual charges in the existing PPPs to be 2.11%. This is lower than the 
recommended alternative.  
In the Charges section, the report stated:
I feel that the potential benefits achieved, namely ensuring your pension investments remain 
in line with your objectives and attitude to risk, justify this increase.
This suggests that staying in the existing arrangement wouldnt have ensured that Mrs Gs 
pension investments remained in line with her objectives and attitude to risk. But the adviser 
had already confirmed on page 3 of the report that Mrs Gs current arrangement continued to 
meet her stated needs and objectives. 
And on page 17, under the heading Future Performance, theres a table showing projected 
fund values at retirement in the existing arrangement and the recommended one. The 
projection showed that the existing arrangement would be slightly better than the 
recommendation if low growth was assumed. And that it would be no different if either 
medium or high growth were assumed. I acknowledge that this projection takes no account 
of the potential benefits of the Discretionary Management service. But as I noted earlier, Im 
not persuaded that there were any particular benefits for Mrs G of such a service. 
Page 18 of the report stated: 
The recommended new funds will have to outperform your existing funds in order to break 
even, due to the initial charges. There is no guarantee that the new funds will outperform 
your existing investments to any degree.
I agree with this statement. I consider that it provides evidence that the recommendation was 
unlikely to be in Mrs Gs best interests. The information within the report showed that the 
ongoing charges would be higher under the recommended arrangement. In addition, Mrs G 
would be charged a 3% initial fee. In order for the recommendation to break even, Mrs Gs 
funds would have to outperform her existing arrangement. But her attitude to risk was 
unchanged. 
Chase shouldve provided Mrs G with enough information for her to be able to understand 
and decide whether to accept their recommendation. But, from what Ive seen, they didnt 
provide her with a proper comparison or her existing arrangement and their 
recommendation. Despite that, they still recommended that the switch was suitable on the 
basis that she would have access to a Discretionary Management service, which Ive seen 
no evidence she needed. Overall, Im not persuaded that the recommendation to transfer to 
a SIPP was in Mrs Gs best interests.
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice to transfer Mrs Gs existing PPPs to Deferred SIPP was 
unsuitable. Therefore I intend to uphold the complaint. I also consider that the unsuitable 
advice, and the impact it has had on Mrs Gs retirement planning, has caused her distress. 
Therefore I consider that Chase should also pay Mrs G £300 compensation for the distress 
the unsuitable advice caused. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Mrs G accepted my provisional decision.Chase said that the benefit of the advice was the consolidation of plans and active 
management through a discretionary model. They felt that non-discretionary plans could 
have various funds within them with respective fund managers, but that the asset allocation 
would remain within the parameters of that fund manager. Whereas a discretionary fund 
manager would move between different funds (and fund managers) in the potential best 
interests of the clients invested within it.   
Chase didnt agree that Mrs G couldve received the same level of service/monitoring by 
staying in her existing arrangement, as it wasnt a discretionary model.  
Chase also said that it wouldnt be possible to get the same level of management as a 
discretionary service through financial reviews with an adviser in a non-discretionary model. 
And that there would also be a cost of such an option. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Chases points, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. I 
remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I first considered Chases point that the benefit of the advice was the consolidation of the 
plans and the active management through a discretionary model. As I stated in my 
provisional decision, Chase stated on page 3 of their report that Mrs Gs current 
arrangement continued to meet her stated needs and objectives. Therefore they would need 
to give strong reasons for recommending a costly change. From what Ive seen, such 
reasons werent evidenced in their report. I also note that the report didnt consider other 
potential investments in the existing arrangement.
I also already noted that although Chase stated consolidation as a benefit of the advice, they 
didnt investigate or try to explain why Mrs G was paying much higher charges on one of her 
existing plans. As I said, before Chase could reasonably list consolidation as a benefit, I 
consider they shouldve questioned whether it was possible to consolidate the existing 
arrangements into a single, cheaper plan. 
I next considered Chases point that Mrs G couldnt have received the same level of service 
by staying in her existing arrangement.
As I noted in my provisional decision, Ive seen no evidence that Mrs G had previously had 
to make any decisions with her existing portfolio that using discretionary management 
service wouldve solved. And Ive seen no evidence of an impartial discussion about what 
Mrs G understood discretionary management meant. Or the differences between the 
recommendation and her existing PPPs. Therefore, regardless of whether Chase considered 
the level of service was better in the new arrangement than the old one, Ive seen no 
evidence that the new service was suitable for Mrs G. 
Finally, I agree with Chase that it wouldnt be possible to get the same level of management 
as a discretionary service through financial reviews with an adviser in a non-discretionary 
model without charge. But I dont consider that this was a strong enough reason to 
recommend this option to Mrs G. As I stated above, Chase accepted that Mrs Gs current 
arrangement continued to meet her stated needs and objectives. And Im not persuaded that 
she needed the level of management a discretionary service might have provided. 
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs G should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs G wouldve remained with her previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. 
I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given Mrs G's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
I understand that Mrs G chose to pay the initial advice fees and ongoing charges through her 
investments. Therefore the redress Ive outlined below will automatically allow for the 
charges to be refunded if the calculation shows a loss.
What must Chase do?
To compensate Mrs G fairly, Chase must:
Compare the performance of Mrs G's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider up to the point Mrs G transferred out. If the 
actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the 
notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Chase should add interest as set out below:
I understand that Mrs G transferred out of the Deferred SIPP to another provider in 
2021. If there is a loss, the compensation calculated above should be adjusted to 
allow for the investment performance Mrs G actually achieved with her current 
provider between the date of transfer to Mrs Gs current provider and the date of 
any final decision.
Chase should pay into Mrs G's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Chase is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs G's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs G would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs G £300 for the distress the unsuitable advice caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Chase deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs G how much has been taken off. Chase should give Mrs G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs G asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Deferred SIPP No longer in 
forceNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investment 
(believed to be 
24/12/2019)Date ceased 
to be held
(believed to 
be 23/4/2021)8% simple per 
year from my 
final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs G's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Chase should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal paid to Mrs G from the SIPP 
should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of 
regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Chase totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Chase will need to determine 
a fair value for Mrs G's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs G wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. I 
consider this index is a reasonable comparison. If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, or if the current 
provider is unable to provide the investment performance Mrs G actually achieved 
between the date of transfer to her current provider and the date of any final 
decision, then I consider the measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mrs G's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Chase de Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers limited to pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman