DRN-3518127
The complaint
Mrs P complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited handled her home 
emergency claim poorly.
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs P made a claim on her DAS home emergency policy. She wanted DAS 
to deal with a rat infestation in her home. It accepted the claim and sent a contractor to begin 
prevention work. However, as Mrs P was unhappy with its service she instructed her own 
pest control contractor. 
In September 2021 DAS responded to a complaint from Mrs P. It accepted there was a 
delay to the initial visit to her home. DAS apologised for the delay. It offered Mrs P £30 
compensation to recognise any distress and inconvenience caused. She wasnt satisfied 
with the response. She asked DAS to reimburse her the £300 she paid her own contractor. It 
refused the request, saying it hadnt agreed to the work beforehand. 
In May 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She didnt recommend DAS 
reimburse Mrs P the £300. But she felt it should increase its offer of compensation to £100. 
DAS didnt object, but Mrs P did. She wants to be reimbursed what she spent on her 
contractor. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, I havent addressed here every point or piece of information 
provided for this complaint. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues and 
evidence. But I would like to reassure Mrs P and DAS that Ive considered everything they 
provided. 
Mrs Ps policy says DAS will arrange and pay for a contractor to take action to resolve an 
emergency caused by an insured event. Vermin infestation which prevents the use of the loft 
or one or more rooms is listed as an insured event. 
The policy also says DAS wont pay for any work it hasnt authorised in advance. Mrs P 
didnt receive authorisation to arrange her own contractor. However, if I thought DAS hadnt 
taken reasonable steps to try to resolve the infestation, I might decide it would be fair for it to 
reimburse Mrs P anyway. 
Mrs P felt DASs pest control service was inadequate. As she was concerned about the 
potential health impact she arranged her own contractor. Ive considered her points including 
how long DASs contractor spent at her home, the type of poison used and time between 
visits. She feels that had she not arranged her own pest control she would still have an 
infestation. 
However, having also considered DASs comments I cant say it was given a reasonable 
opportunity to deal with the infestation. Its explained its infestation programme and what 
happened at each visit. It says an infestation usually takes two to four weeks to deal with. I 
accept its possible DASs service may not have been successful - but unfortunately it wasnt 
given reasonable time to try to resolve the problem. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require it 
to reimburse Mrs Ps costs. 
Our investigator said DAS should pay Mrs P £100 compensation in total. Having considered 
everything that seems a reasonable amount to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused her by cancelling two appointments. The visits did take place at 
later dates. But the delays caused Mrs P additional distress and inconvenience at a time 
when she was already concerned about the health and safety of her family.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mrs P a total of £100 compensation (including the £30 already offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman