DRN-3208474
The complaint
Ms H and Mr Ms representative complains on their behalf about the repairs Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has undertaken following a claim on their buildings 
insurance policy.
References to Ms H, Mr M, or their representative, will include the others.
There are several parties and representatives of LV involved throughout the claim but for the 
purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LV.
What happened
Ms H and Mr M are the freeholders of a building which is made in to three flats - basement, 
ground floor and upper maisonette. They hold three separate home insurance buildings 
insurance policies with LV that cover each of the three flats. Ms H and Mr M own the upper 
maisonette. The basement and ground floor flats each have different leasehold owners. 
The basement flat is owned by Ms H and Mr Ms representative in this case. It is rented out 
to tenants. 
In December 2019 there was an escape of water in the ground floor flat that caused damage 
to the ceiling of the basement flat. Ms H and Mr M made a claim on their buildings insurance 
for the damage and this claim was accepted by LV.
Assessment of the damage was undertaken by LV and repairs to the basement flat ceiling 
were authorised and a new ceiling was installed at the start of 2020.
In June 2020 Ms H and Mr Ms representative made a complaint to LV that the new ceiling 
that had been installed was not performing in the same manner as the ceiling it had 
replaced. Their representative said the issues were that the new ceiling was allowing a lot of 
noise pollution from the ground floor flat down into the basement flat. He said there was not 
an issue with noise when the old ceiling was in place.
LV said it had replaced the ceiling in line with its policy terms and conditions. It said that the 
damaged ceiling was not sound-proofed and the purpose of their insurance was to put them 
back in the position they were in before the claim happened. 
Ms H and Mr Ms representative was not happy with LV, so he brought the complaint to our 
service. He said he has paid for the ceiling installed by LV to be removed and replaced with 
a soundproofed ceiling. He wants LV to reimburse the cost of this ceiling, plus interest. 
Additionally he would like an apology and compensation for stress and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and thought that LV 
had processed the claim as he would expect, and it had put the property structurally back 
into pre-incident condition.
As Ms H and Mr Ms representative is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has 
been brought to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basement flat bedroom ceiling was damaged by an escape of water from the flat directly 
above. A claim for this damage was made on the insurance policy relevant to the basement 
flat and it was accepted by LV.
I looked at the insurance policy documentation and it says;
If the loss or damage is covered by this insurance well agree with you whether to:
arrange for repair or replacement using one of our suppliers; or
pay the cost of repair; or
make a cash payment.
LV arranged for its contractors to complete the repairs as it has the right to determine how it 
settles a claim. I have not seen any evidence that at the time of the claim, Ms H, Mr M, or 
their representative disagreed with LV using its own contractors. 
I looked at the reports made by LV regarding the damage and the repairs quotation from the 
building company used by LV to undertake the repairs.
The damaged ceiling was many years old and made of lathe and plaster in places. It was 
predominantly covered with single plasterboard but where there were remnants of lathe and 
plaster it was covered with two plaster boards  double boarded. 
It was replaced by LVs contractors, with two layers of plasterboard. Insulation was also used 
in the void between the plasterboard ceiling and the floor of the ground floor flat. The 
contactors said there is no specific building regulation which applies to the replacement of a 
lathe and plaster ceiling, as this type of work is classed as repairs, maintenance, and 
replacement in existing buildings under the regulations and therefore exempt. It said 
materials and method used were in line with up to date industry standards. 
In June 2020 Ms H and Mr Ms representative complained to LV about issues with noise 
coming through to the basement flat from the ground floor flat. He said that this was because 
the new ceiling that had been installed allowed more sound through it than the damaged 
ceiling. 
Ms H and Mr Ms representative submitted details of a sound-proofing design and materials 
he believed should have been used in the ceiling repair. Their representative said that LV 
should pay the costs of installing a ceiling of this design. 
As LV did not uphold their complaint and refused further works to address noise, a 
soundproofed ceiling was installed at the cost of Ms H and Mr Ms representative as he is 
the basement flat owner. 
The claim accepted by LV was for repair to the ceiling, due to water damage. LV said that 
there is no specific building regulation which applies to replacement of a lathe and plaster 
ceiling, but the industry standard is the use of double layered plaster board and skim. LV confirmed that the ceiling its contractors installed was double plaster boarded and 
skimmed. It said it also added a layer of insulation as a gesture of goodwill. And so I 
consider that LV have acted within the terms and conditions of the policy and reinstated the 
damaged ceiling with a like for like replacement.
The damaged ceiling was not a soundproofed or a suspended ceiling and therefore 
replacing with a soundproofed design and materials as Ms H and Mr Ms representative 
wants LV to cover would not be a like for like replacement and therefore not covered by 
their insurance policy.  
I have seen that there is a difference of recollection of what was said during the initial visit to 
inspect the damage to the ceiling to the basement flat. LVs contractors said that noise 
transmission was mentioned by the tenants of the basement flat at the initial meeting and the 
tenants asked for advice on what could be done to resolve it. But the representative said that 
there was no issue at this point. 
After thinking about this I do not believe that the difference in recollection changes anything 
in this case. The damaged ceiling was replaced due to damage caused by a leak from the 
flat above and it was carried out with like for like materials and as per industry standards.
I understand that Ms H and Mr Ms representative will be disappointed with my decision as  I 
can see that he has paid for the ceiling installed by LV to be removed and replaced by a  
soundproofed ceiling of a different design. However I do not think that the insurance policy 
held with LV should cover this cost as it had already reinstated the damaged ceiling with a 
like for like replacement and put them back into pre-incident condition.
Therefore, I dont uphold Ms H and Mr Ms complaint and I do not require LV to take any 
further action on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman