DRN-3265563
The complaint
Mr O and Mr Y complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc have declined a claim for a lost watch.
What happened
Mr O and Mr Y held a contents policy with AXA from 6th February 2018 to 2nd August 2018.
In March 2020 the policyholders discovered that they had lost an Omega Speedmaster 
watch and a further watch, which was later found. The last time they had seen the watch 
was some time in 2018. 
They initially made a claim under their current policy but were told that they should approach 
AXA as AXA were the insurers when the loss was believed to have taken place. However, 
the claim was declined as AXA said that it couldnt be proven that the watch was lost during 
the period of cover.
Mr O and Mr Y made a complaint against AXA, through a claims company, as they felt that 
AXA had treated them unfairly. They believed that accusations of fraud had been made, a 
GDPR breach had occurred and that Mr Y had been caused stress by the whole claim 
process. AXA didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint brought by Mr O and Mr Y and felt that AXA hadnt 
acted unfairly. Mr O and Mr Y disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
They want AXA to settle the claim in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive split the complaint into two main areas  whether AXA was entitled to decline the claim, 
and the service received by Mr O and Mr Y.
AXAs decision to decline the claim
There is no question that Mr Y owned the watch which has now been lost. He first noticed 
that the watch was missing in 2020 and said that the last time he remembers seeing the 
watch was in 2018. So, he believes it likely that the watch was lost some time in 2018. 
In an interview conducted by loss adjusters on behalf of AXA on 14th January 2021, Mr Y 
said that he doesnt know when, or how, the watch was lost. He remembers wearing the 
watch while he and Mr O were living in a rental property for six months between February 
and August 2018. It was during this period that the policy with AXA was held. 
He states that he returned from a trip abroad on 25th March 2020 and looked for his watch, 
finding it to be missing. He felt sure that the watch would be found so didnt immediately 
make a claim, only doing so through his broker in late 2020. 
AXA would only cover the loss of the watch if it happened between February and August 
2018 and as long as the loss met the criteria set out in the policy documents. 
For example, in the section General Conditions the policy states that loss or damage to 
items not in the care, custody or control of the policyholders, their family or an unauthorised 
person would not be covered. 
There are also a number of other exclusions which may apply to the loss if Mr Y knew how 
the loss occurred. As Mr Y doesnt know exactly when the watch was lost, or how it came to 
be lost, Im satisfied AXA havent acted unreasonably by declining the claim. 
Service received by Mr O and Mr Y from AXA
Mr O and Mr Y have complained about several issues around the service they received once 
theyd made the claim. The most serious is that they feel that they have been accused of 
fraud. 
As I have stated above, AXA have declined the claim because Mr Y was unable to evidence 
when or how the watch was lost. They havent declined it because they believe the claim to 
be fraudulent. 
Mr Y and his representatives were concerned by a letter from AXAs appointed loss adjuster, 
dated 24th February 2021, which asked Mr Y to clarify some points related to the interview 
which took place on 14th January 2021. At the end of the letter it stated:
If you are unwilling or unable to offer any reasonable explanation, your Insurer may 
consider that you have deliberately tried to mislead them in the presentation of your 
claim and this would be a breach of the policy condition relating to fraud.
I dont believe that the inclusion of this sentence is alleging fraud  it is merely stating a fact. 
At no point have AXA or Crawford and Company accused Mr O and Mr Y of fraud. 
It is important to point out that the watch is an expensive item and so AXA are entitled to 
carry out any investigation that they feel is necessary before deciding whether to pay the 
claim. This is especially true when they dont have all the facts surrounding a loss such as 
when or how it occurred. 
I can understand that Mr Y found the process stressful, but I dont think AXA acted unfairly. 
They were trying to establish the facts around the claim and to do this they needed to 
conduct an interview and ask for clarification of certain points. I havent seen any evidence of 
unnecessary questioning or unprofessional conduct.
Mr O and Mr Ys representative also accused AXA of a GDPR breach. This was in relation to 
AXA approaching Mr O and Mr Ys current insurer to ask why they had declined the claim 
initially made to them. 
There is no evidence of AXA providing any sensitive data to the current insurer  they were 
asking for information. The only detail that they may have shared is that Mr O and Mr Y were 
making a claim, however the current insurer would be aware of this as they informed Mr O 
and Mr Y that this was the correct process. Therefore, again I dont believe AXA have acted 
incorrectly.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr O and Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman