DRN-3862853
The complaint
Mr R complains Leeds Building Society (Leeds) didnt allow him to withdraw money from his 
ISA. He is also unhappy the bank called the police to his house which was embarrassing for 
him. 
What happened
Mr R contacted Leeds in order to transfer some of his money into his current account with a 
different provider. During the course of the conversation Mr R mentioned he intended to use 
some of the money to pay a tax on a property he owns abroad. 
Mr R says once Leeds were aware of what he was using the money for it refused to release 
the funds. And was told the police would have to visit his home and he was unable to stop 
that from happening. Mr R says the police visiting his house was embarrassing for him.
Leeds say Mr R contacted it to close his ISA and transfer the funds to his bank account. He 
said £2000 of this was to be sent abroad to pay for taxes on his property. Mr R was unable 
to provide evidence of this and so Leeds wasnt able to complete Mr Rs request. It says it 
has a duty of care to protect its customers and that is what it was doing. Leeds apologised 
for the inconvenience and paid Mr R £50 to reflect this. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the response received from Leeds and so referred his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for him and said he thought Leeds should 
pay Mr R a further £50 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by the matter. Our investigator 
said he didnt think the visit from the police was a proportionate response to the concerns 
Leeds had with the transaction. And that the visit from the police caused further delays for 
Mr R. 
Leeds didnt agree with the outcome. It said it had legitimate concerns about the overseas 
payment and followed protocol to check it was genuine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 18 November 2022 where I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In that decision I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the 
overall view that I dont require Leeds to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I appreciate how strongly Mr R feels about whats taken place. 
Leeds has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet. Those obligations are 
ongoing. It is common industry practice for banks to monitor accounts for activity which may 
fall outside its risk appetite. And transactions are often restricted to prevent potential losses. 
I am sure Mr R can appreciate that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies, 
and Leeds is under a duty to protect its customers money from fraud or scams. I appreciate 
that on occasions, as in this case, legitimate transactions and genuine customers find 
themselves subject to security and fraud measures. I have no doubt such genuine 
customers are caused inconvenience and can spend some time in trying to sort matters out, 
and in making sure such measures are lifted. But I dont think that means Leeds made a 
mistake or acted unfairly in applying such security and fraud measures here for the reasons I 
will explain. 
I make clear to Mr R that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so its 
not our role to tell a business what its security and fraud measures should be or how it 
operates them. I think such matters are largely for Leeds to decide on when exercising its 
commercial judgment, and not something I can fairly interfere in. So that means I cant fairly 
say that Leeds made a mistake or acted unreasonably by taking the steps it did following Mr 
Rs request to withdraw the funds from his ISA. 
I have listened to the calls between the parties and Im satisfied Mr R was told he was able 
to attend in branch to provide the documents required to verify the transaction. But that 
wasnt suitable for Mr R. So the agent explained he would be able to ask the Police to attend 
within 72 hours and they would be able to make the necessary enquiries. 
I have no doubt Mr R spent a considerable amount of time trying to resolve this matter. And 
that he was embarrassed when the Police visited his home. But I dont think that means 
Leeds made a mistake and I accept in these sorts of cases there is likely to be a 
considerable amount of waiting and calls.
I appreciate the situation was upsetting for Mr R who needed the money to pay an obligation 
abroad. But if Mr R had been the victim of fraud and Leeds hadnt taken steps to prevent 
money being removed from his account, the consequences could have been far worse for 
Mr R. 
I am satisfied Leeds has shown the steps it took were based on a genuine and legitimate 
concerns for it to take the action it did. So although Mr R will have been frustrated by what 
happened here, Im satisfied Leeds treated him fairly. Im not persuaded it made any errors 
in trying to verify the transaction and has already paid him reasonable compensation for any 
upset caused. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses 
Leeds didnt send any further comments or information. 
Mr R says he felt the fact that the money was for his family wasnt taken into consideration. 
And he also said the money from the ISA was being transferred into an account with a 
different provider and so Leeds had met all the regulatory requirements when the money left 
the ISA and transferred to the other account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr R says the fact that the money was for family should have been considered. But I 
think Leeds has shown the steps it took were based on a genuine and legitimate concerns. 
I havent seen anything that persuades me to part from the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision. Putting things right 
It is unfortunate the police visited Mr Rs home which he found intrusive. Leeds accepted the 
upset caused and paid him £50 to reflect this. I think it is fair and I wont be asking Leeds to 
do anything more. I accept Mr R is unlikely to accept my decision and I do empathise with 
the position he found himself in.  
My final decision
Leeds Building Society has already paid £50 to settle the complaint. So I wont be asking it 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman