DRN-4158197
The complaint
Ms P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund the full loss of her funds after being
the victim of a scam.
What happened
What Ms P says
Ms P is represented in this complaint and explained that a close family member received a
call from a company about shares they held in a major utility supplier based in the UK. After
discussing the call with her relative, Ms P called the company back on an international
number and spoke with a representative of a company Ill refer to as J.
J explained they were working for a client who was involved in a hostile takeover of the utility
company and were trying to purchase a controlling percentage of the shares to support their
takeover.
Ms P described how J were very convincing about the deal they were working on and spent
time explaining the process of acquiring her relatives shares. Her relative was required to
sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) if she wanted to proceed. Ms P carried out research
into J by checking their host countries regulators and didnt find anything negative about
them.
The NDA was sent to Ms P who arranged for her relative to sign it and sent it back to J with
an authority for Ms P to represent her relative. Ms P also carried out further research into the
possible takeover of the utility company and found some articles on the web that indicated
there had been various discussions it some years earlier.
The next step, as explained to Ms P, was to sign a contract and pay for an insurance bond
which was needed to protect Ms P and her relative from issues with the acquisition falling
through because she was told it could take 1-2 years to complete. Ms P was told that she
would have to pay about £5,000 for the bond.
Shortly after sending the NDA back, another representative of J arranged to call her and in
that conversation told Ms P that her relative held over 4,000 shares. Ms P was told that the
buyer was going to pay between £10-£13 per share. Ms P has said she questioned the
amount because it was so high and was told that the buyer was very wealthy and the
purchase would offset other tax payments they had to make, so could afford to set such a
high price.
Ms P was sent a contract and after examining it to check it was authentic, arranged for it to
be signed by her relative. She also sent two forms of ID that had also been requested by J.
She later received an email confirming receipt of the documents.
Ms P was told that the indemnity bond would be provided by another company Ill refer to as
C. Ms P carried out research into them, saying   not see anything which would indicate
they were not legitimate. Ms P then arranged to make the payment to C using her mobile
banking facility.
This payment was to an international account in a different part of the world and several
days after attempting it, Lloyds contacted Ms P, asking her to call. It turned out that some of
the details were completed incorrectly. Ms P described a discussion with Lloyds about the
payment and her representatives described it as:
Your bank asked what the payment related to as she had never made an international
payment before. Your customer honestly answered and informed you that she was selling
shares and the payment was for an indemnity bond. Your customer did not give your bank
any further information as she had signed the non-disclosure agreement. Your bank asked
your customer whether she had carried out any checks on the company and she advised
that she had done her due diligence. Your bank asked no further probing questions and
released her large international payment capability and alarmingly confirmed she was able to
make future international payments.
The payment was released, and Ms P received a call from J who told her that she would be
dealing with a different company who were handling the acquisition, Ill refer to them as Y.
Ms P said she carried out extensive research into Y and couldnt find anything negative
about them. She later received a call from a representative of Y who Ill refer to as G.
Over the following months, G spoke at length with Ms P on numerous occasions, building
trust and giving personal details about her private life. Ms P said G was knowledgeable and
helpful throughout the process, giving comprehensive explanations for what was happening.
G informed Ms P that the utility company had been informed of the hostile takeover and
there were now 3 million shares available for purchase. Ms P said she carefully considered
this and later said she would purchase 10,000 of them.
Her representatives explained that Ms P used some of her own funds and also borrowed
funds from her family to make these purchases. About two weeks after making the bond
payment, Ms P paid £39,999.75 to an international account after querying why it was being
sent to this other country. She was told it was to an escrow account and had certain tax
benefits. Ms P was satisfied with the answer she was given and made a further payment on
the same day of £9,992.50 for additional shares.
Ms P then described how she had second thoughts about these payments and wanted to
recall them so she could send them to a charity she wanted to support. Ms P contacted
Lloyds about them who discussed the process to recall the payments. Ms P also informed G
about her wish to recall the payments. G told Ms P that this would cause her personal
difficulties if the deal fell through and eventually Ms P agreed not to cancel the payments.
Ms P informed Lloyds that she was happy to continue with them and the payments were fully
processed. G wanted Ms P to purchase more shares, and Ms P described how this would
allow her to meet her goal of helping others less fortunate than herself and her family, so
made two further purchases of shares for £35,000 and a few days later £21,994. Ms P was
told by G that she wouldnt be liable for tax on these purchases, but a few days after making
the last payment she was called by another representative from their legal department who
told Ms P that she owed £212,000 in tax.
Ms P was told that an existing tax treaty between the UK and their country meant that she
would have to pay the funds and referred her to an official tax form. After looking into the
situation, Ms P was convinced this was a legitimate tax liability.Over several discussions the legal representative offered to reduce the tax bill, highlighting
that because Ms P was investing for charity, they would try and help. Ms P was eventually
told that they (Y) would loan her 75% of the tax bill if she paid the remainder. Ms P described
how she was worried that without paying these funds, she wouldnt be able to realise the
purchase of the shares. So, not having the funds herself, Ms P made an electronic loan
application through Lloyds for £25,000 and together with contributions from the other family
members, made the tax payment of £53,218.68. This took place about three weeks after
the last investment.
Ms P was later told by J that she had to pay a further penalty because her tax payment was
late. J subsequently told her that as they were responsible for the late payment, Ms P wasnt
required to make any further payments. Then, about a month after the last payment, Ms P
received a document purporting to be from the Treasury department of the country where
the shares were being administered. This said she was to receive about £700,000 from the
shares shed purchased and was required to make a further payment of £5,000 for bank
charges before the release of the funds, which she paid.
Ms P was told to be at home on a date about two weeks after this payment was made to
receive the share transfer documents, but no delivery was made. Ms P approached the
delivery company who couldnt find any record of the package. Ms P then realised shed
been scammed. Ms P described how she tried, without success, to contact Lloyds for
several days before she was eventually able to speak with their fraud team. Ms P said she
was given misleading information by Lloyds who treated the issue as a dispute, rather than
a fraud. Ms P said she wasnt assisted by Lloyds and complained. Lloyds offered to refund
Ms P 50% of her losses plus interest amounting to £85,095.95 and £100 compensation for
the poor service she received.
Table of relevant payments:
Date Payment Amount (£)
19/05/21 Bond from Ms P £5,842.88
03/06/21 From family member £40,000
04/06/21 Share payment £39,999.75
04/06/21 From family member £10,000
04/06/21 Share payment £9,992.50
15/06/21 From family member £35,000
15/06/21 Share payment £35,000
16/06/21 Transfer into account £9,966.80
17/06/21 From family member £2,500
17/06/21 (laptop) £2,000
17/06/21 From family member £21,994.00
01/07/21 Share payment £5,500
01/07/21 From family member £7,500
02/07/21 From family member £5,047
05/07/21 Branch deposit £25,000
06/07/21 Loan £4,992
08/07/21 Branch deposit £53,218.68
10/08/21 Tax payment £5,000
Note  dates taken from statement
Various foreign transfer fees not included.What Lloyds said
Once Ms P had brought the scam to their attention and made a complaint, they assessed
the situation based on the relative actions of each party. They considered that there were
several factors which should have given Ms P pause about the offer she was being given,
that:
Ms P didnt check with the utility company in the UK about the take-over or query 
how J knew her relatives details.
J werent listed at the address they said they worked from.
The circumstances of a firm contacting a UK customer from abroad is unusual and to 
then offer 3 million shares as part of a hostile takeover seems unlikely. Lloyds dont 
believe Ms P queried this or sought financial advice.
The various firms Ms P was dealing with arent registered on the regulators site.
J werent registered with the UK regulator.
It was a red flag when G used her personal circumstances to convince Ms P to stop 
the recall of the payments and to continue investment.
The offer to loan Ms P 75% of the tax payment should have been a red flag.
Ms P said in one of her emails that "part of me had a feeling this was too good to be 
true but please prove me wrong". This shows Ms P had a gut instinct that something 
was amiss  but made the final £5,000 regardless.
One of the share documents was factually wrong but was never queried.
Ms P was adamant that the offer was legitimate when she spoke with Lloyds and her 
years of experience in law meant she knew how to spot a scam. Ms P gave no 
cause for concern to the Lloyds fraud employee that would have stopped them from 
making this payment.
Lloyds dont believe the health conditions and stresses mentioned by Ms P were a 
reason for Ms P to be unaware of what she was doing. Lloyds described Ms P as 
confident when theyve spoken with her.
Lloyds accepted they could have done more but they also thought that Ms P contributed to
her own losses. Lloyds didnt apply the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) principles
because the payments were to international accounts and outside the scope of the CRM.
Lloyds had attempted to retrieve the funds but were unsuccessful.
In their final response to Ms P, Lloyds advised her that they were paying £100 compensation
for the service shed received and £85,095.95 including interest which was 50% of her
losses. They believed that Ms P should be responsible for the remaining 50%.
Ms P was left unhappy with Lloydss solution, so brought her complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
The investigation so far
An investigator was assigned to look into Ms Ps complaint and asked both parties for
information about the situation. Ms Ps representatives provided detailed commentary about
what had happened and some of the paperwork that was involved in the scam.Ms Ps representatives believed that Lloyds had missed several opportunities to intervene
due to the unusual nature of the payments being made from her account. They also believed
Lloyds shouldnt have given Ms P the £25,000 loan and theyd failed her, mentioning various
rules/regulations and obligations they had to their customer.
They also believed that a previous head injury suffered by Ms P some years earlier
contributed to her decision to make the payments.
The representatives said that Ms P had borrowed funds from her family members for this
investment, but also that shed told one of them about this opportunity who invested money
through Ms P. That payment was for £2,500 and is marked on the statement as laptop.
Ms P was caring for her parents at the time and it was felt that the additional stress caused
by their conditions, the Covid outbreak and her long-term aspiration to help those less
fortunate than herself contributed to her being swept up in the scam.
Her representatives advised that Ms P hadnt sought legal advice because of her own
experience in that field and believed that the sophisticated language employed in their
documentation and the NDA were evidence that they were legitimate.
Her representatives argued that Lloyds had treated the initial issue as a dispute and had
directed Ms P to the beneficiary banks to sort the problem out herself, causing further
distress. It was argued that Ms P had a sufficient belief that the investment opportunity was
genuine because:
The scammers knew personal information about her relative and that she held 
shares with the utility company.
There was no negative information about the various entities she was dealing with.
The NDA and the contract seemed authentic.
Forms of ID were asked for adding to the authenticity of the arrangement.
The scammers introduced each new person she was to deal with, which she was told 
was to help prevent her from being scammed.
Ms P researched the phone numbers and they appeared to be from the relevant area 
of the foreign city she was expecting.
The address given by the scammers was prestigious, giving confidence to Ms P that 
they were legitimate.
The scammers worked on a personal level to build trust with Ms P, contacting on a 
daily basis over the four-month period of the scam.
Ms P had researched the hostile takeover of the utility company.
The scammers were able to answer all Ms Ps questions confidently, including why 
an escrow account was being held in a different part of the word.
Ms P was sent official looking documentation which helped to convince her the 
requests for further funds was legitimate.
Overall, it was argued that Lloyds had failed Ms P and they could have intervened on several
other occasions due to the unusual nature of the payments moving through her account,
including the recall of some of the payments. Also, that her personal circumstances and
previous medical issues contributed to the payments she made.
After considering the evidence, the investigator thought that Lloyds had failed to prevent thelosses and recommended they refund the remaining payments made by Ms P.
Lloyds disagreed with the outcome and reiterated that they thought Ms P had contributed to
her own losses and should bear some of the responsibility. The investigator considered the
points made by Lloyds (which was a repeat of their earlier position) and didnt think that Ms
Ps approach to the investment scam was unreasonable. In summary he said that:
The personal knowledge the scammers had about Ms Ps relative would have given 
her confidence they were legitimate.
The lack of negative information related to the research carried out by Ms P was 
another factor that persuaded her that the offer was legitimate, including finding 
articles about such a takeover.
It was unreasonable for Ms P to be expected to carry out an address search of the 
companies involved.
She did carry out some telephone checks which showed the correct area code.
Ms P received official looking documentation from the authorities, further persuading 
her that the situation was genuine.
Lloyds asked for a further review of the complaint which has now been passed to me for a
decision.
I sought clarification from Ms P concerning the funding of the payments she made. Her
representatives advised that Ms P was suffering further medical issues and the length of
time since the scam meant her memory may be blurred. Specifically, I wanted to
understand the arrangement between Ms P and the rest of her family concerning the funds
she received from them.
Ms P, through her representatives, said that the funds she received from her family were
borrowed to assist Ms P, rather than to purchase shares on their behalf. Ms P thought that
the bulk of the funds were to pay for the tax she owed. Ms P confirmed the loan of the funds
was an informal one between family members.
I also wanted to understand why, during a hostile takeover (based on acquiring 51% of the
shares), that 3 million shares were offered to Ms P (at £1.75 per share), to then be
purchased by them at £11.78 per share prior to the completion of the takeover?
Ms P wasnt sure but thought that it was possible the 3 million shares may have been for a
different company.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Ms Ps complaint on 26 April 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended not to uphold her complaint and offered both 
sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of that 
decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice (including those referred to by Ms Ps representatives in their submissions
to this service); and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.There is a voluntary code that applies to APP scams like this one (The Lending Standards
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  the CRM Code). But the CRM Code
doesnt apply to payments made to international accounts as they were here, so I cant apply
it.
I was sorry to hear of Ms Ps loss and the impact this scam has had on her and her family.
The first matter I need to address is the authorisation of the payments. Its common ground
that Ms P sent the payments from her account to various entities under the guise of a share
purchase. So, even though she didnt intend to pay a fraudster, the payments were
authorised under the Payment Services Regulations.
Lloyds is expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the
customers account. But, Lloyds also has an obligation to be on the lookout for, and to
protect its customers from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes
monitoring accounts and identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of
character. In situations when potential fraud is identified, I would expect Lloyds to
intervene and attempt to prevent the loss.
Lloyds themselves conceded that theyd failed to intervene during later payments made by
Ms P. Examining the account movements, I dont think its in doubt that they were unusual,
and I would have expected Lloyds to have spoken with Ms P about them when she made
later payments, specifically the payment for £39,999.75 (recorded in the statements as
04/06/21) after receiving £40,000 from a family member the day or so before.
Whilst I recognise that Lloyds should have intervened, I also have to take into account the
likely outcome of that conversation and whether Ms P contributed to her own losses.
Lloyds spoke to Ms P when her first attempt to send funds failed. The following is a summary
of that call.
Ms P was asked whether shed made payments before to the company. She advised
that she hadnt and went on to explain the reasons for the payment. Also that she
had a long background in the legal profession and that shed had the documents
checked and carried out her due diligence. She went on to confirm that shes well
versed in looking out for scams and that she knew she wouldnt get her funds back (if
there was a problem).
Ms P was advised that scams are often initiated because contracts are sent out of
the blue for an investment opportunity. Ms P was asked if shed initiated the contact
with the company and confirmed she had.
Ms P told Lloyds that in her own work area she had to protect her clients funds, so
was educated about scams and that it was second nature to her.
Having listened to the call, I think its fair to conclude that Ms P was very confident in her
ability to spot a scam because she mentions her own experience several times and that
shed carried out her own due diligence.
Ms P also confirmed that shed initiated contact with the company which wasnt the case
because it started when her relative was cold called.
I understand why Lloyds wouldnt have gone much deeper into the arrangements for this
call. Particularly when considering the stance that Ms P took and the relatively low amount of
the payment. I think the presence of the NDA also contributed to the lack of detail.
That doesnt mean that Lloydss obligations were met regarding the other payments.Generally, if the payments continued and increased, as they did here, I would expect Lloyds
to have intervened and dug deeper. Its difficult to say what the outcome of those
conversations would have been, but they would have presented Lloyds with an opportunity
to question the arrangement.
Lloyds have already refunded 50% of the losses, so I have to consider if they should refund
the remaining 50%, or whether Ms P should shoulder some of them herself?
Did Ms P contribute to the losses herself?
Essentially this complaint revolves around the issue of contributory negligence. Assessed as
A lack of care on the consumers part that goes beyond what we would expect from a
reasonable person.
Theres little doubt that Ms P was caught up in a sophisticated scam that operated over
several months. I do think there were some red flags that should have alerted her to the
possibility she was being scammed:
The opportunity originated from a cold call.
The various companies contacting Ms P werent authorised by their respective
countrys regulator (despite claiming to represent a client in a hostile takeover of a
legitimate business worth significant sums).
The articles about the hostile takeover were relatively old.
The genuine company had a warning on their website concerning similar scams.
The basic premise of the offer was too good to be true.
The flow of funds were unusual  the offer was to buy shares, but all that happened
was the sending of funds by Ms P.
The handling of the tax request was unusual.
From reading the various submissions about this complaint, its apparent that the scammers
were prepared to answer questions posed by Ms P. But, I think there were some basic
elements that Ive found difficult to comprehend, particularly given that this wasnt a scam
designed to elicit an immediate action by Ms P. This scam took place over several months,
giving an opportunity for Ms P to look into the arrangements.
Even without Ms Ps experience, I think the fact that it originated from a cold call should have
given her pause that the whole offer was suspicious. A basic check with the utility companys
website would have shown that scams such as these were being perpetrated against
shareholders. Ms P said she found online references to a hostile takeover, but as far as Im
aware these were several years old.
I also think the premise that shares, which I understand at the time were less than £1 each,
could be bought for over £11 because it was a tax write off, seems implausible and too good
to be true. Ms P was later informed that the utility company were aware of the hostile
takeover and there were further shares on offer. Ms P cant remember who offered them and
thought it may have been linked to another company, although the evidence already
provided doesnt point to that as the likely answer.
I appreciate Ms P has a blurred memory of this time, but the documents sent in by her
representatives show the additional shares were being offered through the same company
she was dealing with. Theres no indication that anyone else was now offering shares for
sale.
What I found suspicious here was that these additional shares were being offered to Ms Pfor £1.75 per share, but she would immediately be paid £11.78 per share by the scammers.
This made the prospective profit seem huge, and Ive no doubt had an impact on how it was
viewed by Ms P. The document totalling up the various payments/share sale showed Ms P
was to receive over £700,000.
Ms P said she carried out extensive due diligence and couldnt find anything negative about
the various companies she was dealing with. But here the premise was that a wealthy client
was attempting the hostile takeover of a large utility company ( whose net worth was in the £
billions at the time of the scam), so I would expect that any other business involved in it
would be properly regulated. Its inconceivable that any legitimate business working in this
highly regulated field on behalf of such a client wouldnt be regulated, but as far as Im
aware, no registration was ever seen. Thats because these companies were fictitious and
appear to be set up as part of the scam.
The original offer was to buy shares  which, with the most basic assessment meant that
one party has the shares and the other wants to purchase them. That would mean the
purchaser sending money to the shareholder in exchange for the shares. That wasnt the
case here as funds flowed only from Ms P to the scammers.
Ms P was told that no tax was payable, but this later changed to a tax bill of about £200,000.
The change in position was startling, but this seemed to have been explained away by the
scammers to Ms Ps satisfaction. The later offer to loan 75% of the tax bill was I think
unusual and theres no agreement between Ms P and the scammers that details this. It
seems odd for a legitimate business to make such a demand when this hadnt already been
discussed/agreed in the earlier talk about the arrangement to sell the shares.
I think, by this time, Ms P was focussed on receiving the payment for the shares, so was
probably more susceptible to these requests for more funds whether they be for tax or
charges for sending the share certificates. I do think the pressure put on her was substantial,
given the explanation of the conversations she had with one of the scammers. I thought the
reasons given for some of the payments  particularly the personal reasons given by one of
them to persuade Ms P to stop the recall of two of the payments was suspicious. Thats not
something I would expect a professional advisor to discuss with their client. I would have
thought if Ms P was concerned about the payments, she would have taken more time to
understand the situation she was in.
Ms P also complained that Lloyds gave her a loan for £25,000 which was applied for using
their online system. As theyve already refunded more than that, I dont propose to further
consider it at this point.
Overall, I think there were enough red flags to give Ms P pause about the whole offer. I do
think she contributed to her own losses and should be responsible for 50% of them. I accept
she was the victim and has suffered because of it. I understand her health has suffered and
she was dealing with an old accident at the time. But, I dont think these are factors that
would reduce the 50% contribution I think is both fair and reasonable for her to be
responsible for.
As Lloyds have already accepted their part in the losses and repaid 50% plus interest and
£100 compensation for their handling, Im currently of the opinion that I wont be asking them
to do anything further.
My provisional decision
Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint.I invited Ms P and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Lloyds didnt have anything further to add. Ms P, 
through her representatives said:
The threshold for the red flags goes beyond what would be required from a 
reasonable person.
Ms P didnt have the requisite knowledge to be able to identify that the hostile 
takeover was a concern or that the average person would immediately see this as a 
concern.
The articles referred to are historic but provided Ms P with a reasonable basis for 
believing the scam.
The scammers mimicked expected corporate practice and provided sophisticated 
contracts and non-disclosure agreements.
Ms P carried out the utmost check regarding the scammers and no negative 
information could be found about them.
Ms P didnt consider the price differential of the shares because she was a lay 
person who had been provided with extensive information. 
Ms P carried out her due diligence when faced with a tax request.
The bank are the experts, not Ms P, so should be held liable for failing to protect the 
remaining losses.
Lloyds failed to respond in time and this allowed them to delay the complaint. The 
representatives referred to a section of the regulations relating to an Ombudsmans 
considerations into the timeliness of a respondents (Lloyds) response to requests for 
information. The representatives believe it was unfair to allow the bank this time 
when they believe Ms P would have been penalised for a similar delay.
Ms P should receive a full refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further that would change my opinion, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set 
out in my provisional decision.
I will address those points raised by Ms Ps representatives where I feel it would be helpful to 
further explain my thoughts and answer any new points raised:
Threshold
Ive considered the additional arguments made by Ms Ps representatives and Im afraid my 
assessment is different to theirs. I dont think the threshold expected here has been set too 
high. There were several factors here which a reasonable person should in my opinion, have 
raised suspicion about the whole offer. Ive already listed them in my provisional decision 
and dont intend to repeat the list here. 
Hostile takeover
Ms Ps representatives argued specifically that the hostile takeover articles were of 
relevance, even though they were several years old. But here, as Ive already mentioned, 
the legitimate company who were subject to these historic articles also had a warning about 
them on their website which I think a reasonable person would have checked as one of the first acts of due diligence. I dont think old articles were particularly persuasive in the context 
of what Ms P was being told. It was a relatively straight forwards process to determine that 
scams of this kind were prevalent and linked to the hostile takeover.
Documentation
I dont doubt that the documents provided to Ms P were authentic looking. But, the basic 
premise of the offer was suspect. As Ive already mentioned, the flow of funds was unusual 
based on the offer to buy shares, but no money was ever received. Money only flowed 
towards the scammers who seemed to be able to offer additional shares when theyd 
already told Ms P their client was trying to obtain enough to takeover the legitimate 
company.   
Checks
Its been reiterated that Ms P carried out extensive checks on the businesses overseas and 
their addresses etc. Its been said that Ms P couldnt find anything negative about them. I 
accept that, but the overriding issue regarding the companies was that there were no 
legitimate registrations with any of that countrys regulators. Thats because they appeared 
to have been created specifically for the scam and were fictitious. Ill reiterate here that I 
think it highly suspect that a legitimate takeover would involve companies that werent 
regulated.
Share Price
Whilst Ms P received various explanations and documentation concerning the share price 
offer, the very fact that Ms P was offered the opportunity to sell shares at such an inflated 
price and then to be able to buy more shares at a much-reduced price to be immediately re-
purchased at the hugely inflated price was, in my opinion, too good to be true. Ms P was 
being offered a price that was roughly 1000% above the current value of them.
Tax
I do accept that Ms P looked into the tax demand, but here the situation had changed from 
being advised that no tax was payable to then being told she owed in the region of 
£200,000. The change in position was startling and for the company to then offer to loan 
75% of the tax bill to Ms P was in itself suspicious. Ms P didnt, as far as Im aware, see any 
documentation about such a loan. I just dont think its plausible to believe a legitimate 
company would operate in such a way. It was clearly an attempt to take more money from 
Ms P and Im sure at that point she was focussed on obtaining the full value of the shares.
Timeliness 
Ms Ps representatives have argued that it was unfair to allow Lloyds additional time to 
provide documentation when the same courtesy wouldnt have been afforded to Ms P. As far 
as Im aware, both parties have had opportunity to provide information in consideration of the 
complaint. Lloyds did take a little longer responding to the investigators outcome and asked 
for an extension, which then required further communication. As far as I can see, there were 
no overly long delays caused by Lloyds due to their inactivity. Regarding her representatives 
comments about what they think would have happened if the situation was reversed  as 
this didnt happen, I dont think a theoretical situation is relevant here.
Overall, Ms P was ultimately the victim of a cruel scam that was perpetrated against her 
using information about a close family relatives share holdings. She received a 50% refund 
from Lloyds when they accepted they could have done more to prevent further losses. But, I do think there were sufficient red flags present throughout the complaint that Ms P should 
have questioned the arrangement she was being offered. I think its both fair and reasonable 
for Ms P to be responsible for 50% of her losses and I wont be asking Lloyds to make any 
further payment towards the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman