DRN-3228483
The complaint
Miss S complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc s handling of a third partys claim under 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss S said that she was involved in an accident where she bumped a third partys parked 
car but only hit the cars door handle and didnt cause any damage. But she said the other 
car had pre-existing damage, and the third party fraudulently claimed against her for that 
damage. So she was unhappy when AXA accepted and paid for the third partys claim. She 
felt that they AXA didnt do enough to investigate her concerns, and she was unhappy that it 
made her premiums go up. 
AXA said that they did take Miss Ss concerns about the claimed third party damage into 
account, but in the end, it was up to them how they dealt with the claim. So they settled the 
third partys claim for her car repairs and car hire. They did so on a without prejudice basis 
which means they didnt accept Miss Ss liability.  AXA did agree that they hadnt 
communicated with Miss S very well and apologised and offered her compensation of £50 
for that, with another £25 for their delay in dealing with her complaint.  
The investigator thought that AXA hadnt acted unreasonably and that their compensation for 
their poor communication was fair. Miss S didnt agree and so her case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained , we dont decide who is at fault for causing an accident, as this 
is a matter for the courts. Instead, we investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with their policy terms and conditions, when they decide who was 
responsible. 
As the investigator also explained, in Miss Ss case, and as in most car insurance policies, 
theres a term which allows an insurer to defend or settle any claim on her behalf, as they 
see fit. That means they might decide something that Miss S disagrees with, but the policy 
allows them to do that. But wed still expect them to do so based on all the facts and 
evidence.
 
Miss S said that she only scuffed the handle of the third partys car door, but the car had pre-
existing damage to its bumper, and the third party had made a fraudulent claim against her 
for that damage. She said the third party and her family then harassed her and her family 
about the matter and the police were involved.  
I see from AXAs file notes that AXA did take account of Miss Ss concerns about fraud. 
Their in-house engineers and claims validation unit looked at all the evidence shed sent 
them. This included her photos of her car with no damage, and of the third-party car s with 
damage which she said was already there and which she hadnt caused. However although 
the photo of the other car did show bumper damage, it didnt show that the damage was 
there before the accident. Miss S had admitted that shed made contact with AXAs car. AXA 
thought that lack of damage to Miss Ss car wasnt enough to show that she hadnt caused 
the third party car damage, particularly because Miss Ss car was larger and heavier than 
the third partys car and there wouldnt necessarily be an impact mark on it. 
Miss S said the police were involved and she also gave AXA details of a witness who could 
say that the third party was driving the car after the accident. But this doesnt show that Miss 
S didnt cause the damage. Theres no suggestion that the witness or the police were 
present at the time of the accident and could confirm that the third partys car damage was 
already there before Miss Ss car hit the third partys car. So those would not have been any 
help in in deciding liability.
The third partys insurer had also sent evidence of the third partys claim that Miss S had 
caused the damage, and an independent engineers report detailing the damage and repair 
estimate, and details of the car hire costs. The third partys solicitors quickly threatened to 
sue if AXA didnt settle and, in the meantime, the hire car costs were running. Considering all 
the evidence, AXA didnt feel confident that they could defend the claim in court, so they 
settled the claim to prevent further costs. Thats a commercial decision and we wont 
intervene with that unless we think its unreasonable. Going to court is costly and time 
consuming and the result uncertain, so I dont think that AXA acted unreasonably. They do 
have the right to settle as they think fit . And though I think it would have been better if they 
had told Miss S before they did this, they dont have to.
Miss S thought that AXAs failure to agree with her meant that they didnt believe her and 
werent properly defending her interest. But when liability is in dispute an insurer has an 
obligation to deal with a third partys claim, investigate both parties accounts and look at the 
evidence overall before deciding. I think that AXA did that , and they didnt take 
unreasonably long to do it. So theyd done what we would expect of them within a 
reasonable timeframe. Often an insurer will take a fault claim into account in assessing a 
renewal premium and so its not unreasonable for that to affect her future premiums.
After the investigator gave her view, Miss S told us that AXA had admitted they hadnt 
handled the issue properly and shouldn't have settled the claim. But the investigator has 
sought clarification about this from AXA. Although at first AXA gave us contradictory 
information, they have reaffirmed that they had settled the claim and they had not changed 
their mind about this. 
Miss S also complained that she had received bailiffs letters from the third party, and this 
has caused her ongoing stress. AXA said that they were still dealing with the third party 
solicitors about the car hire costs , and the letter might have related to that, but they would 
deal with it if Miss S contacted them, and I think thats reasonable. 
AXA accepted that they hadnt communicated with her very well and offered her 
compensation of £50 in recognition of that. I think that was fair.
I do see that Miss S felt very strongly that the third party was making a fraudulent claim and 
has found it very frustrating that AXA settled it. However as Ive explained above, AXA do 
have a right under her policy to do that, and they did act reasonably and did what they were 
required to do under her policy. This means that I dont ask them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
