DRN-3852987
The complaint
Ms Ds complaint is about the repossession in 2016 of a property she and her ex-husband 
(Mr J) had mortgaged with Elderbridge. She has concerns about what happened before the 
repossession and the disposal of her contents following that happening, which were subject 
to a previous complaint. The issues covered by this complaint are that Mrs D is concerned 
about the sale of the property by Elderbridge and what happened to the surplus proceeds 
after the mortgage was paid off. 
The mortgage in question was taken out with a different lender, but Elderbridge is now 
responsible for it. As such, I will refer to Elderbridge throughout, even where actions were 
taken by the original lender.
What happened
In 2007 Ms D and Mr J re-mortgaged their existing residential property with Elderbridge onto 
a buy-to-let basis. I will refer to this as mortgage R. They then took out another mortgage 
with Elderbridge to buy their new residential home  mortgage F. By 2015 Ms D and Mr Js 
relationship had broken down and mortgage F was in arrears. It also appears that mortgage 
R was for more than the property it was secured on was worth. 
Due to the arrears on mortgage F, Elderbridge took legal action to repossess the property. It 
was given a warrant of eviction and took possession of the property on 19 July 2016. 
Elderbridge wrote to Ms D to confirm this had happened and what would happen going 
forward.
Ms D contacted Elderbridge following the repossession and told it she had a mortgage offer 
in place to be able to repay mortgage F in full. Elderbridge put its actions on hold for a week 
and explained to Ms D that for it to consider handing back the property, her solicitors would 
need to confirm in writing that the mortgage funds were in place and the date they could be 
made available. No such contact was made nor arrangements confirmed. 
After the hold had expired, Elderbridge arranged for the property to be valued. An estate 
agent and a surveyor both confirmed that the property should be marketed at £130,000. The 
surveyor thought the sale value would be £125,000 and the estate agent expected it to sell 
for £120,000. Quotes for clearing the property were also obtained.
Ms D telephoned Elderbridge on 24 August 2016 as she hadnt heard anything about the 
property being marketed. She was told how much the property was being marketed for. She 
was also provided with the estate agents details.
An offer of £133,000 was accepted by Elderbridge in September 2016. 
Elderbridges property agents confirmed to Ms D in a telephone call on 4 October 2016 that 
the sale of the property had been agreed. Elderbridge also wrote to Ms D, at the address 
she had provided this service with, two days later confirming that a sale had been agreed 
and for how much. It told her when exchange and completion were expected to happen. It 
also reminded her that she had belongings in the property and told her how to arrange to 
collect them. 
The sale completed on 4 November 2016 and Elderbridge wrote to Ms D shortly thereafter at 
the address it had on file for her at that time. It said that, further to its telephone conversation 
with her on 10 November 2016, there had been surplus funds from the sale of property F 
and that the funds had been used to reduce the balance of mortgage R. This then meant 
that agreement for a shortfall sale was no longer required and it had closed its file on that 
issue. Ms D and Mr Js solicitors dealing with the sale of property R were given the same 
information.
Ms D raised complaints with the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2016 and 2020. The 
information available indicates that the complaint made in 2016 was made outside of the 
referral period and so we couldnt consider it. We did, however, consider the additional 
points Ms D had raised in 2020 and the complaint was resolved in October 2020.
During the course of the investigation into the 2020 complaint Ms D raised new complaint 
points about not having been kept informed about what was happening with the sale of the 
property, the amount the property was sold for and that she hadnt received the surplus 
proceeds from the sale. These complaint points were referred to Elderbridge.
Elderbridge issued a final response letter on the new complaint points on 14 October 2021. It 
said that it had told her what was happening after the repossession, how much the property 
had been sold for, and what had happened to the proceeds of the sale. As such, it didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Two of our investigators considered the complaint. Ultimately, it was upheld in part. The 
investigator conclude that Elderbridge had followed the appropriate process and had kept 
Ms D up to date during the sale of the property. However, it was concluded that Elderbridge 
didnt have the right to pay the surplus from the sale of property F to mortgage R in 2016. 
Redress was recommended.
Elderbridge didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It explained that at the time 
mortgage F was repaid, the property linked to mortgage R was in negative equity. In other 
words Ms D and Mr J owed more on the mortgage than the property was worth. As such, a 
shortfall sale had been agreed. This was only agreed on the basis that Ms D and Mr J didnt 
have the funds to pay the shortfall. As there were surplus funds after mortgage F was paid 
off, a shortfall sale was no longer needed, as there were funds available to pay the 
difference between the mortgage debt and the sale value of the property. Once mortgage R 
was paid off, the surplus funds from that sale would have been paid to Ms D and Mr J, so 
they received the right amount of the surplus funds from the sale of property F as they 
should have. As such, they didnt suffer a financial loss. As our investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change his conclusions, Elderbridge asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
Ms D accepted the investigators conclusions.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that I will not be revisiting 
any of the issues that were included in Ms Ds 2016 and 2020 complaints. As such, I will only 
be commenting on the process of selling the property after the repossession (excluding the 
disposal of Ms Ds possessions), the amount the property was sold for and what happened 
to the surplus funds.Once the property was repossessed Elderbridges duty was to sell the property for the best 
price achievable within a reasonable period of time. It may be a rather subjective test but the 
approach we take, in essence, is that a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a 
quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus potentially adding further to the borrowers interest 
costs) to achieve an unrealistically high price. 
Its about finding a balance between the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders should 
obtain a minimum of two independent valuations, and then market the property with a view 
to achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations. In the case of Mr J and Ms Ds 
property, Elderbridge obtained two valuations. So I am satisfied it did what it needed to do in 
this respect. 
The valuations concluded the property was worth between £120,000 and £125,000. It sold 
for £133,000, which is clearly above the range expected from the valuations. As such, I cant 
find that Elderbridge did anything wrong in this respect.
I would also explain that selling a property after it is repossessed isnt a process that 
involves the borrower; its something for a lender to conduct in its own right, generally by 
engaging third parties (solicitors, estate agents, and property managers for example) to act 
as its agents. All I would expect a lender to do would be to notify the borrower once a sale 
has completed, and account for the transaction. Elderbridge did more than that. While I note 
that Ms D has said that she didnt receive correspondence from Elderbridge, I am satisfied 
that it was sent to correct addresses, the solicitors dealing with the sale of property R was 
aware of the situation, and Ms D was also provided with information in various telephone 
conversations. 
In relation to Ms Ds concern that Elderbridge acted inappropriately in relation to the 
mortgage offer she had. I cant agree, as when she told Elderbridge about the offer, it put the 
sale of property F on hold for a period and told Ms D what information it needed to move 
forward on the basis that she was going to be paying off the full amount of mortgage F. Ms D 
commented about re-mortgaging the property on more than one occasion after that, but her 
solicitors didnt contact Elderbridge and provide the necessary information. As such, I cant 
find that Elderbridge did anything wrong in this respect. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint on the basis that the information about the 
mortgage F provided by Elderbridge didnt include a consolidation or right to set off clause. 
While Elderbridge has sent us numerous documents, they dont include the mortgage terms 
and conditions, so I cant say for certain whether Elderbridge had the right to do what it did. 
However, in the event that it didnt, I have to consider what would most likely have happened 
if Elderbridge hadnt used the surplus from the sale of property F to reduce mortgage R and 
whether Ms D suffered a financial loss because of the error. 
I would at this stage comment that it appears that Ms D may well have known about 
Elderbridges intention for the surplus funds before they were paid off mortgage R. She was 
certainly informed at the time that it happened, as was the solicitor dealing with the sale of 
property R. There doesnt appear to have been any concerns raised by any of the parties 
involved at that time. 
That said, I would comment that it is clear from the information contained in Elderbridges file 
that the financial settlement between Mr J and Ms D was set by the court. We dont have 
details of what that settlement was, and I dont consider that it is necessary for me to have 
sight of the agreement in all the circumstances. In light of the fact that property F was jointly 
owned Elderbridge could never have simply paid all the surplus funds to Ms D when it was 
sold. Given the comments of the solicitor involved in the sale of property R about the 
financial settlement that was in place, I am satisfied that if the surplus funds had not been used to reduce mortgage R, it would have been held by solicitors acting for Mr J and Ms D 
pending the sale of property R. When that sale completed, the remainder of the surplus 
funds would have been paid to Mr J and Ms D in line with the financial settlement set by the 
court. 
What actually happened was the money, rather than being held by the solicitors, was held 
within mortgage R. That meant that when the sale completed, there was equity from the sale 
proceeds, which the solicitors would have distributed in line with the financial settlement set 
by the court. Had the money been held by the solicitor during the short period before the 
sale of property R went through, Ms D wouldnt have received interest on the money. 
However, it having been paid off mortgage R, meant that less interest was charged on that 
mortgage. As such, I am satisfied that Ms D and Mr J likely received the funds they were 
meant to under the court determined financial settlement, and they were actually in a better 
financial position because of the interest savings due to the action Elderbridge took.
Elderbridge confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and had nothing to add.
Ms D didnt accept my provisional decision. She commented again on what had happened in 
relation to the repossession and her possessions, but made no comment on the matters 
covered by this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further comment nor provided additional evidence relating to the 
issues being considered under this complaint, I see no reason to alter my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 
10 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman