DRN-3515531
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank misled her to 
change her direct debit due date and they did not explain the consequences of this.
What happened
Mrs D pays her Tesco credit card in full by monthly direct debit, which she says is taken after 
the 28th of the month. Mrs D says that in February 2022 the direct debit was taken on 27 
February. As this was before Mrs D received her salary, she was worried the direct debit 
would be returned as she did not have sufficient funds in her account to pay the direct debit.
Mrs D rang Tescos to query this. She said she was advised to cancel the direct debit, so the 
funds werent taken twice and if the payment was taken then everything would be fine. Mrs D 
says she was told that if the direct debit was returned then she would need to make a 
payment before the end of March and Tesco would cancel the interest charges as it had 
been their error. On the call, Mrs D says she asked if she could change her payment due 
date to later in the month so this wouldnt happen again.
Mrs D said that on 8 March she received her statement for around £1,600 to be paid in April. 
She then received a further statement on 25 March for almost £3,000 with a late payment 
charge. She said she was unaware she had missed any payment as the statement had only 
been issued that day. 
Mrs D contacted Tesco. She said that Tesco told her that this was because her payment 
date had moved and the call handler who arranged this should have made her aware that 
the entire balance would need to be cleared before this could be actioned.
Mrs D made a complaint to Tesco. She said that she would never have agreed to it on this 
basis, as she would not have the financial means to pay a double statement within the same 
month and she would not have requested the date change if this had been explained to her. 
She said the direct debit was actually successfully taken, so no payment was overdue and 
no manual payment was needed.
Tesco did not uphold the complaint. They said that when Mrs D called on 26 February, she 
was made aware a statement would be produced on 8 March as normal, but she would need 
to make a manual payment by 25 March. Tesco said that Mrs D was informed that a further 
statement would be produced on 25 March with a due date of 19 April and they would collect 
this around 14 April, providing the direct debit was set up for the full statement balance, 
before the statement was produced on 25 March.
Tesco said that they couldnt agree that Mrs D wasnt made aware when payments were 
required. But as a gesture of goodwill, they refunded the interest charged on 25 March of 
£20.90. They also applied a waiver on Mrs Ds account to prevent interest on her recent 
statement and her next statement also. Mrs D brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. She said after listening to the call Mrs D 
had in February, our investigator was satisfied Mrs D was made aware that after paying her 
statement in February 2022, and changing the due date, it meant she was cancelling the 
direct debit. She said a statement was still going to be generated on 8 March 2022 as usual 
and Mrs D would need to make a manual payment for that statement amount. Once she 
made the manual payment she could then set up the direct debit. 
Our investigator said the next statement would then be generated on 25 March 2022 and a 
payment would be claimed on 14 April 2022. She was satisfied the agent provided Mrs D full 
and thorough information regarding changing her payment date and the implications of what 
that meant for her next payment due date and when she was required to make the next 
couple of payments. Our investigator said that at no point during the call did the agent advise 
Mrs D not to make a payment for any of the statements she received. Our investigator 
provided Mrs D with a copy of Februarys call.
Mrs D asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, Mrs D said that her complaint relates to the fact she had to pay two statement 
balances within the same month. She says it appeared that the error lies with the payment 
statement due dates being different to that which was originally advised by the adviser and 
that the advisor told her the next two payment dates would fall in sperate months, but the 
payments due did not fall in line within separate months. They fell in within the same month 
which put her into an impossible situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive listened to the phone call that Mrs D had with Tesco in February 2022, to listen to what 
exactly was discussed here. Mrs D asks if the direct debit has been requested now or has it 
actually come out of the other end. The call handler tells her that its likely its been 
requested by your bank but we wont actually take it until the Monday. He goes on to say 
we take it on the 28th. 
In this call, Mrs D and the call handler discuss her wages crediting her account and the 
money leaving the account. The call handler explains that they would request the money, 
which is requested earlier than the direct debit takes the money from her account. I can 
understand why Mrs D would be concerned about this as she asks the call handler if the 
account could default if there wasnt enough money to pay for the direct debit. But Im not 
persuaded that the payment would have left her bank account early and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mrs Ds credit card statement for the month in question. The statement shows 
that Tescos will collect your full balance direct debit of £2,757.53 on 28/02/2022 or soon 
after. So Im not persuaded that they would have collected the money before this date, and 
as Mrs D has confirmed, there were sufficient funds in her bank account to pay the direct 
debit. I can see from her credit card statement that this credited her account on 28 February. 
So Im not persuaded there was any error on this point.
Ive then considered how it was explained about moving the due dates. The call handler 
suggests they could look at the date the direct debit comes out of her account moving 
forward. Mrs D explains that there are occasions that the due date is before she gets paid, 
but her husband gets paid earlier (so shes been able to meet the payment). But she does 
suggest they look to move the direct debit to the second of the month. The call handler explains that they have set, select dates that they can give Mrs D based 
on their cycles. He says that they can give her the 5th or 19th of the month. Mrs D says thats 
fine, any of those are fine. The call handler tells Mrs D that the 5th wouldnt change 
anything but the 19th would take out on the 14th of every month, Mrs D replies yeah, that 
would be perfect. 
The call handler says youre gonna need to do like a manual payment in the middle of here, 
because what it does, it throws your direct debit out as well you see. The call handler later 
says around the ten minute mark of the call, Ill set you on that day and Ill run through a 
new set of bullet points what were gonna do, so this doesnt go astray here. He says 
youre going to get your statements on the 25th moving forward and theyll be due by the 
19th, we take on the 14th give or take, Mrs D agrees by saying yeah. 
The call handler says youre gonna get your next statement on the eighth, if you note that, 
Mrs D says yeah. He then says pay that manually, but youll have to pay it before the 25th 
and youll have to pay that before the next statement comes out earlier, does that make 
sense? Mrs D replies yeah, yeah. The call handler says so youre going to get that 
statement on the 8th, pay before the 25th and then youre gonna get a statement on the 25th. 
The call handler continues to say the day that you pay that statement, set ya direct debit 
back up on that same date. Mrs D says yeah. The call handler continues to say eighth, 
pay that statement, direct debit the same day ya make the payment, set that back up again 
online with us, that will then kick in from the 25th (of the month) statement and take out on 
the 14th of the following month. Mrs D says ok, thats fine
So here Im persuaded that the call handler has told Mrs D that her next statement will be on 
8 March given the date she spoke to the call handler in February. He told her that she would 
need to pay that manually before the 25th. While the call handler does not specifically say 
the word March, Im persuaded that it could only be March as he was explaining her next 
statement (which would have been March). But Mrs Ds credit card statements show she did 
not follow this instruction by making a payment before 25 March. 
Ive considered that Mrs Ds March statement dated 8 March does say that Your minimum 
payment should reach your account by 2 Apr 2022.. But as the call handler told Mrs D that 
she should make a manual payment by 25 March and explained that she would get a new 
statement earlier, on the 25 March., Im not persuaded that the call handler made any errors. 
I say this as he was correct that the next statement from the phone call Mrs D had with him 
was on 8 March, he stated on at least two occasions she would need to make the payment 
by 25th of the month (March) and she would get a new statement on 25 March, The call 
handler then said her payment would be on the 14th of the following month (April).
This was correct. The statement issued on 25 March clearly shows the payment due date is 
19 April, as the call handler said it would be (where Mrs D had the choice of 5th or 19th of the 
month) and the statement shows her direct debit would be collected on 14 April or soon after 
as the call handler told her it would be.
So Im satisfied that what the call handler proposed  and what Mrs D agreed to was clearly 
set out on the phone call. Mrs D did not object to what the call handler said and she agreed 
each time the call handler explained what would happen and when. She did not ask the call 
handler any questions when he asked her if she had any. So it would have appeared to the 
call handler that Mrs D agreed with him and she understood what was happening. So I cant 
agree that Tesco misled her with the payment dates and what would be happening and 
when. So it follows I do not require Tesco to do anything else. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman