DRN-3864765
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Pi Financial Ltd to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal 
pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In August 2017, scheme members were told that terms had been agreed for a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) (under pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring 
mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its liabilities in 
respect of a DB pension scheme) and that when it took affect they would have a choice - 
either move into the new scheme - BSPS2 - or remain in the existing scheme and move with 
it to the PPF.
Mr M was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension so he sought advice. Mr M met with Pi Financial in August 2017 and it 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things, this recorded that Mr M was 51 years old; he was married; hed 
recently sold his home but was still living in the property (rent free) with the consent of the 
new owner; he was looking to buy a new property the following year; he had around 
£100,000 in savings from the net proceeds of the house sale as well as around £50,000 in 
shares; and he wanted to be able to retire at 55 with an annual income of £25,500. Pi 
Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk which it deemed to be 
low.
On 12 September 2017 Pi Financial advised Mr M to transfer the benefits from his BSPS into 
a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a portfolio of funds, which it 
deemed matched Mr Ms attitude to risk. The suitability report said the reasons for the 
recommendation were based on Mr Ms current circumstances and the result of the TVAS 
report.
Mr M duly accepted the recommendation and sometime later around £506,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr M complained to Pi Financial in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr M 
said that a transfer should not have been recommended in his circumstances and the 
benefits available to him through the BSPS2 are unlikely to be matched through the 
recommended personal pension arrangement.
Pi Financial didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said the advice to transfer was 
suitable. It said Mr M would not have been able to meet his objective of wanting to retire 
early at 55 if he remained in the DB scheme  going into the PPF wouldve resulted in a 10% 
reduction in benefits and Mr M wouldnt have been able to retire until 65, while the BSPS2s 
benefit increases were at a reduced rate, which meant Mr M ran the risk of inflation reducing 
the purchasing power of his money. It said while it didnt know what the revaluation and 
escalation rates were for the BSPS2 at the time, based on the existing scheme income Mr M 
couldnt afford to retire at 55  even taking into account his wifes income he wouldve been 
left with an income shortfall of around £141 based on his expenditure need of £25,500 a 
year. And this assumed Mr M didnt have a mortgage in place. It said the schemes lump 
sum offering of around £71,000 may not have met Mr Ms objective of clearing any mortgage 
he needed to buy a property. It said Mr M had health conditions and he was concerned 
about the potential for a shortened life expectancy and wanted to provide for his family upon 
his death  the spouses pension provided by the scheme was not suitable as it wouldnt 
support her in retirement. It said it was highly unlikely that Mr M wouldve obtained affordable 
life cover to provide additional death benefits for his family. 
Dissatisfied with its response Mr M asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider his 
complaint. One of our investigators upheld the complaint and required Pi Financial to pay 
compensation. In summary they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They said 
given the critical yield required to match Mr Ms scheme benefits, his attitude to risk and the 
term to retirement, he was likely to be worse of in retirement as a result of transferring and 
investing in line with his low attitude to risk. And they said there were no other particular 
reasons to justify the transfer to outweigh this  the potential for different death benefits 
wasnt a valid reason to transfer and his concerns about the scheme shouldve been 
addressed subjectively by Pi Financial including waiting for details of the BSPS2. They said 
while Mr M likely had a fair understanding of his retirement plans given his age, his 
circumstances were in a state of change  he was looking to buy a property and it wasnt 
clear how much he needed for this, how much if any mortgage might be required and so how 
this might impact him financially including his income needs. They said with these 
uncertainties, it wasnt in Mr Ms best interests to transfer out of the scheme. They said if 
suitable advice had been given, Mr M wouldve likely chosen to opt-into the BSPS2.
Mr Ms representative accepted the investigators findings. They clarified that Mr M was still 
employed and does not expect to retire until 65.They also said that the notional reduction for 
income tax should only be applied to the redress once the part of the redress intended to 
compensate Mr M for the product and adviser charges has been disregarded, as otherwise 
Mr M would be undercompensated by 15% in respect of those adviser and product charges 
he is now incurring.
Pi Financial disagreed. In summary it said the investigator had missed very important details 
about Mr Ms health conditions all of which played a major part on Mr Ms life expectancy. It 
said these were contributory factors it took into account in its advice. It repeated the points it 
made in its final response letter that it was not realistic for Mr M to retire at 55 if he remained 
in the DB scheme, neither the PPF nor the BSPS2 provided flexibility of income and the 
schemes death benefits could not offer the income Mr Ms wife required to ensure she had a 
comfortable lifestyle. 
It said Mr M needed £25,000 a year to retire at 55 and he required the maximum tax-free 
cash to put with the proceeds from his house sale to be able to buy another property the 
following year. It said its advice was based on the information available at the time and 
analysis of Mr Ms overall position  his main aim was to retire at 55 on the income he 
needed to do so, which the transfer provided.The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They said they had noted Mr Ms 
health concerns; they werent persuaded there was any real attempt to consider the 
alternative of life assurance to provide additional death benefits; the potential for a personal 
pension to provide a considerable legacy for Mr Ms family was based on him drawing the 
same level of income as his DB scheme would provide and assumed investment growth of 
5% a year; and they repeated that because of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, it was 
difficult to assess what his exact income needs were. 
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pi Financials actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pi Financial 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
Pi Financial carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his 
existing scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice Mr M didnt have the option to remain 
in the existing scheme.
In light of the agreed terms for the RAA, Pi Financial ought to have known that Mr M would 
soon have a choice - either move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or remain in the existing 
scheme and move with it to the PPF. This means that at the time of the advice, basing the 
analysis on the existing scheme was somewhat redundant and so wasnt helpful to Mr M. I 
think its reasonable to say that, in light of the recent announcement Pi Financial shouldve 
waited for the details of the new scheme and based its analysis and advice on the benefits 
available to Mr M through the BSPS2 instead. That way Mr M wouldve had all the relevant 
information to make a properly informed decision.
I accept that BSPS2 was far from being a certainty at the time of the advice. But the RAA 
had been formally approved by the time of the written advice and in my view the available 
information from the scheme trustees indicated that the new scheme would likely go ahead. 
So I still think Pi Financial shouldve waited and taken the benefits available to Mr M through 
the new BSPS2 into account in formulating its advice.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
Mr M was 51 at the time of the advice and its recorded that he wanted to retire at 55.The 
critical yields required to match Mr Ms benefits under the existing BSPS at age 55 (the 
retirement age the advice was predicated on) were set out in the TVAS report of 8 
September 2017 and were 17.89% a year based on Mr M taking a full pension and 10.71% a 
year assuming he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. For some reason, Pi 
Financial only produced critical yield figures to match the benefits available to Mr M through 
the PPF at age 65 and not 55. These were 3.7% and 3.25% a year respectively.
But as Ive said above, Mr M remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, Pi Financial 
shouldve waited and provided the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits instead. 
The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits at 55 (had Pi Financial produced them.)
This compares with the discount rate of 2.8% per year for three years to retirement in this 
case (age 55). For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
low attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little point in 
Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the lowest critical yield figure produced was 10.71% assuming Mr M took a lump 
sum and a reduced pension through the existing BSPS. If Mr M were to opt into the BSPS2 
and take the same benefits at 55, I think the critical yield wouldve still been close to the 
existing scheme of 10.71%. Given this rate was significantly above the discount rate and 
more than 2% higher than the regulators upper projection rate, I think it was clear that Mr M was most likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than those provided 
by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with a 
low attitude to risk. 
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr M wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. As I
said above, no critical yield was produced based on the benefits available to Mr M through 
the PPF at age 55. But at 65, the lowest critical yield was 3.25%. So at age 55 I think it was 
likely to be higher, and more likely than not closer to, if not above, the regulators middle 
projection rate given the shorter term to retirement. This means I dont think the position was 
any different in this scenario - I think Mr M was most likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value than those provided by the PPF if he transferred to a personal pension, as a 
result of investing in line with a low attitude to risk.
Ive considered the drawdown analysis in the TVAS report which showed that Mr Ms 
pension fund would last well beyond his expected retirement age and beyond age 100. But 
firstly this assumes Mr M took the same level of income as he was entitled to through the 
existing BSPS. And as I said above, in my view there would be little point in Mr M taking on 
investment risk only to achieve the same level of benefits he would receive through his 
guaranteed DB scheme. And Pi Financial has argued that the scheme income wasnt 
sufficient for Mr Ms needs. Secondly it assumes a medium rate of return, which given 
Mr Ms low attitude to risk, Im not persuaded was likely sustainable. Furthermore it assumes 
it was suitable for Mr M to enter into a drawdown arrangement. But given Mr Ms low risk 
attitude towards investing, coupled with the fact that this pension accounted for almost all of 
his private retirement provision and so his capacity for loss was in my view low, Im not 
persuaded a drawdown arrangement was appropriate.  
I can also see in the suitability report, Pi Financial set out how Mr M could take the required 
level of income to meet his needs over time and that his fund would last. But this doesnt 
appear to have been based on a proper analysis or modelling of how Mr M could meet his 
objectives by transferring and accessing his benefits via drawdown. It appears it was a 
simple calculation deducting from the transfer value what income Mr M needed at various 
points  for example initially when his wife was still working and then once his state pension 
was payable. But this does not appear to have been based on Mr M accessing a lump sum. 
And importantly, there was no stress testing to show how Mr Ms pension fund might be 
impacted and so its sustainability by a sudden fall in value for example. Without this, Im not 
persuaded Pi Financial has demonstrated a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests and was 
financially viable despite the high critical yield.
So based on financial viability alone, I dont think a transfer out of the BSPS was in Mr Ms 
best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice as Pi Financial has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this 
below.
Flexibility and income need
One of the reasons for the transfer was to meet Mr Ms objective of wanting the financial 
flexibility to retire at age 55. But in light of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, I dont think he 
knew with any degree of certainty whether he required flexibility or that it was certain hed be 
in a position to retire at 55.
Mr M was 51 at the time of the advice and I accept that given his age and his concerns 
about his health, hed given some thought to his retirement and that he probably liked the 
idea of retiring early at 55. But I think Mr Ms circumstances were such that he wasnt in a 
position to formulate a plan at this time (I think this is likely the reason why the advice paperwork isnt particularly clear about this) or that it was in his best interests to transfer his 
DB scheme benefits now to help him achieve things.
Mr M had recently sold his property, which had netted him an amount of around £100,000. 
Mr M was in the fortunate position of being able to continue to reside in the property in the 
short-term  but it was his intention to purchase another property to live in the following year. 
But crucially how much Mr M wanted or needed to spend was unknown. Reference in the 
advice paperwork was made to Mr M needing to raise a short-term mortgage for the 
balance. It also said he planned to use some or all of his share portfolio to support the 
purchase. It then went on to say that Mr M wanted access to his pension at 55 to support the 
purchase and that he needed a greater tax-free cash lump sum than his BSPS would 
provide to do so; albeit somewhat contradictory, I note the suitability report recorded that 
accessing a cash lump sum wasnt a priority for Mr M. But without an understanding of how 
much Mr M intended to spend on a property, it wasnt possible to know what his needs for a 
mortgage and/or a cash lump sum were. So Mr Ms financial position was uncertain and his 
needs could not be quantified at this time. For this reason I dont think Pi Financial was in a 
position to demonstrate that a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
I think this uncertainty about Mr Ms financial position going forward also played into Mr Ms 
income need. Pi Financial recorded that Mr M needed an annual income of £25,500 from 
age 55. But firstly this was based on Mr M not having a mortgage at this time. The suitability 
report said that if Mr M maintained his repayment plans then post 55 his expected mortgage 
would be repaid. But theres no reference to what that repayment plan was  Pi Financial 
didnt know how much Mr M might need to borrow by way of a mortgage (or what other 
assets / means Mr M might need to use to support the purchase) because as I said earlier 
on, it didnt know how much Mr M intended to spend on a property. I think it was entirely 
possible that Mr M might still have a mortgage and so not only would his income/ 
expenditure needs be different, but it could also mean his entire retirement plans would need 
to change and he might need to continue working to service the mortgage.
Notwithstanding this, Im mindful that Mr Ms recorded income need of £25,500 a year in 
retirement was more than his combined necessary and discretionary spending while he was 
working, based on the income and expenditure analysis Pi Financial carried out. And this 
was predicated on him having no liabilities to service. I think Pi Financial shouldve done 
more to interrogate this and understand why Mr Ms spending would, or needed to increase 
in retirement. In my view it is typically the case that a consumers expected expenditure is 
lower in retirement than when they were working.
Pi Financials analysis showed that the pension income Mr M would receive from the existing 
scheme at 55 was £15,120 based on a full pension and £10,695 on a reduced pension, so 
slightly lower under the BSPS2 because of the reduction factors. Mr M was also contributing 
to his workplace defined contribution pension scheme (12% of his salary was being invested 
here), so he wouldve had flexible access to benefits here, albeit not likely significant. 
Nevertheless I accept this might not have been enough to meet Mr Ms income need at 55 
depending on his financial position at the time. And I can see Pi Financial said that it 
appeared Mr M would need to continue working to realise his objectives. Mr M might not 
have wanted to do that, but I dont think that demonstrates it was in Mr Ms best interests to 
transfer to a personal pension. As Ive set out earlier on, Mr M was likely to obtain benefits of 
a lower overall value at 55 if he transferred his funds to a personal pension. 
And because his financial position and needs werent yet certain, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for him to transfer his pension for flexibility that Im not persuaded 
it was clear he really needed. Im mindful that Mr Ms health was recorded as being reasonable and that he had some concerns about his longevity. But I dont think 
this justified a transfer out Mr Ms DB scheme at this time.
I think suitable advice was for Mr M to retain his DB benefits - even if that meant he might 
have to continue working for a while longer to achieve things. I still think Mr M had a better 
chance of meeting his objectives whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF - the benefits 
under which were guaranteed and escalated - rather than relying on investment growth in a 
personal pension. But, if once Mr Ms financial circumstances and needs were clearer and it 
transpired he did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, 
I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age. By choosing to opt 
into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out, if his needs later 
demanded it. I think Pi Financial couldve explained this more clearly to Mr M.
Death benefits
Pi Financial also recommended the transfer to provide the ability for Mr M to pass on what 
remained of his pension fund to his family in the event of his death. It was recorded that 
Mr M was concerned about the possibility of a reduced life expectancy and that the spouses 
pension wouldnt support his wifes needs. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. And I dont think Pi 
Financial clearly explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think Pi Financial made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  under the BSPS2 the 
spouses pension would also be calculated as if no cash lump sum had been taken, which 
might have addressed Mr Ms concerns about the spouses pension being insufficient. 
Furthermore, it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. So, if investment returns were lower than expected or 
Mr M lived a long life, there might not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on 
when he died. In any event, Pi Financial should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
But if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Pi 
Financial shouldve instead explored life insurance. I can see that Mr M had some health 
conditions and Pi Financial says it was highly unlikely Mr M would find life cover at an 
affordable cost. But I cant see that it explored this any further and considered this as an 
alternative. It neednt have been the case that the sum assured had to be for the full transfer 
value. Ultimately Mr M wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family. So 
the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr M  how much he would ideally like to leave to 
his family, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis.
I acknowledge that Mr M had health conditions and so appears to have had concerns about 
his life expectancy. But Mr M not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility and it 
was also possible that he would exceed this, in which case Mr M would need his pension to last longer. If Mr M transferred out of the DB scheme he would be relying on investment 
returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death 
benefits, whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control and concerns about BSPS
I have no doubt that Mr M was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So
its quite possible that Mr M was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the
concerns he had and what might happen. But it was Pi Financials obligation to give Mr M an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive already explained, I think Pi Financial shouldve waited for the details of the BSPS2 
so it could properly take the benefits available to Mr M through the BSPS2 into account. And 
I think this wouldve alleviated some of Mr Ms concerns about the scheme moving to the 
PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, and the scheme
moved to the PPF, I think that Pi Financial shouldve reassured Mr M that this wasnt as 
concerning as he thought or had been led to believe. Despite what Pi Financial said in its 
suitability report, Mr M did still have the option of taking early retirement through the PPF. 
Importantly Mr M was also unlikely to be able to exceed the income provided through the 
PPF by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr M might not 
have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the reasons I set out earlier, there 
was no real apparent need for him to do so. 
So I dont think that Mr Ms concerns shouldve led to Pi Financial recommending he transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr M was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns
about the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr M. But Pi Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might 
have thought he wanted or what sounded attractive. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the
PPF at a time when I dont think it was clear enough what his retirement and income needs 
were. By transferring to a personal arrangement Mr M was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits at his target retirement age. And in my view, there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think Pi Financial shouldve advised Mr M that he should not transfer the benefits of
his BSPS to a personal pension arrangement.  And if things had happened as they should 
have and Pi Financial had waited until the details of the BSPS2 were known before formulating its advice, which was in the offing at the time of its written advice, I think it 
shouldve recommended that Mr M opt into the BSPS2. Because of the uncertainty around 
Mr Ms financial position and whether his desire to retire at 55 was realistic and achievable, I 
don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme later on - if his needs later demanded it.  
Also, because Mr M was married, his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at 
the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr M chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Pi 
Financial's advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS, against Pi Financials advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said Mr M was likely motivated to transfer when he approached Pi Financial, I still 
think Mr M wouldve listened to and followed Pi Financials advice if things had happened as 
they should have and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. While Mr M had 
experience of investing in shares, the evidence does not indicate he someone who 
possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they were 
given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Ms pension accounted for the majority of 
his private retirement provision and both his attitude to risk and capacity for loss were low. 
So, if Pi Financial had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about the scheme were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Pi 
Financial had explained that Mr M should wait until his plans were clearer and that he could 
still likely meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring 
out of the BSPS against Pi Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think Pi Financial should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for
comparison purposes.
I've thought about Mr M's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr M would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr M 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr M for the impact of the unsuitable advice 
he received.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish Pi Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on Mr M. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr Ms retirement provision is 
of great importance to him given its significance in his overall retirement income provision, I 
think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £150 is fair 
in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if suitable advice had been given. 
Pi Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Pi Financial should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Pi Financial based 
the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, my understanding is that Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do 
so at present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pi Financial should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Pi Financials offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Pi Financial may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay 
Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd pays Mr M the balance.
Pi Financial Ltd should also pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience the 
unsuitable advice has caused.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman