DRN-3751804
The complaint
Miss C has complained about the information that Capquest Investments Limited are 
reporting on her credit file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account that was sold to Capquest in 2012. Miss C 
was in a long-term payment arrangement. She says she should have been defaulted back 
then, meaning the account would have fallen off her credit file by now.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. From what they 
found, it looked like by December 2012 Miss C was in substantial arrears and had broken 
the payment arrangement. So they recommended that Capquest apply a backdated default.
Capquest didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant guidelines, I would expect a default to have been applied once Miss C 
was in 3 to 6 months worth of arrears, and where shed missed a repayment under her 
payment arrangement.
Capquest and the original creditor havent been able to provide the original terms showing 
what the minimum payment was. But given the usual terms for this sort of account, its most 
likely that Miss Cs arranged repayments were far less than the minimum, meaning she was 
going further and further into arrears each month.
Arrangements to pay should be temporary, but Miss C was in a long-term debt management 
plan, so it wouldve been relatively clear that this wasnt a temporary situation.
As our investigator found, by December 2012 its likely that Miss C was in at least 3 months 
worth of arrears. And she then missed a payment, breaking the arrangement. Capquest 
pointed out that Miss C did make this up the next month. But the fact remains that Miss C 
was still paying less than the minimum for the long term, with significant arrears building up, 
and with an arrangement that had been broken. So under the relevant guidelines, a default 
would have been reasonable in December 2012.
Further, Miss C broke the arrangement a second time in July 2014. By that point, she would 
definitely have had enough arrears that a default would be needed, she had missed another 
payment under her arrangement, and it would have become undeniable that this was no 
longer a short-term situation. So a default should have been registered by then at the latest.
As such, I direct Capquest to apply a default, backdated to July 2014. This will mean that the 
account will no longer be on Miss Cs credit file now, as its been more than 6 years since 
July 2014.
Like our investigator, I havent awarded compensation here, as Miss C has had the benefit of 
not having to deal with a default or its effect on her credit file in the meantime. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Cs complaint, and direct Capquest 
Investments Limited to apply a backdated default to this account, dated July 2014.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman