DRN-2346736
The complaint
Miss H complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited, trading as Black Horse Finance (Black Horse).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss H. The car 
here was brand new so, I think a reasonable person would not expect it to have any faults 
when it was supplied.
was the car of satisfactory quality when supplied?
The relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs within the first six months after supply then 
the onus is on the business to demonstrate the fault was not present at the point of supply. 
Ive not seen evidence that the flywheel problem wasnt present or developing at the point of 
supply. But I dont think Black Horse need to take any action about that issue. I say that 
because I note the car had completed about 13,000 miles at that point which is much higher 
than average mileage. I think its unlikely Miss H would have been able to cover that 
significant, mileage had there been a fault with the flywheel developing when she took 
delivery of the car. And, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation gives the 
business an opportunity to repair a problem that is present when the car is supplied, and the 
car was repaired at no cost to Miss H.
The exhaust gas recirculation valve work was completed after the car had completed about 
52,000 miles and the engine needed replacing after the car had completed about 103,000 
miles. I think its highly unlikely that the car would have been developing those faults when 
supplied as I dont think its likely Miss H would have been able to cover the extensive 
mileage she did before any fault became apparent.
was the car suitably durable?
The relevant legislation also says we should take into account whether a car has proven to 
be durable when considering if it was of satisfactory quality. I think a consumer would expect 
a cars engine to last a considerable time, but I think its fair to say its important the 
manufacturers guidance is followed to ensure the engines life is optimised.
Ive not been provided with any evidence to substantiate Miss Hs claims that the vehicle 
was serviced between April 2018, when the car had covered almost 73,000 miles, and May 
2019 when the car had completed more than 30,000 additional miles. 
Im not persuaded that the local authoritys Vehicle Standards and Safety Inspection pass 
certificate demonstrates the necessary services were completed. I say that because the 
local authority have explained thats not part of the assessment. 
The car required servicing every 10,000 miles and in the absence of these service records I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest the cars engine had not proven suitably durable. Thats 
because I cant see evidence it has been maintained in line with the manufacturers 
guidance.
the warranty
The warranty wasnt something that was financed through Miss Hs agreement with Black 
Horse so complaints about any mis-selling should be directed to the dealership. It would not 
be reasonable for me to consider them against Black Horse. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair to ask Black Horse to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman