DRN-4381915
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited failed to take her loan repayments then 
recorded missed payment markers on her credit file.
What happened
Miss B says her direct debit payment to Shawbrook was taken in August 2022 but not for the 
next three months. She says she didnt receive any of Shawbrooks letters about the 
payments due to a postal strike until a default notice in around December 2022. Miss B says 
she paid the arrears, but Shawbrook has reported three missed payment markers on her 
credit file. She says that is unfair and has caused distress as she is considering re-
mortgaging. Miss B says Shawbrook later told her it would remove the markers but then 
recorded a missed payment for January 2023 despite that payment being made.
Shawbrook says Miss B changed her bank details on 28 July 2022 and says the direct debit 
was later cancelled. It says it tried to call Miss B without success and hasnt made a mistake.
Miss B brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought the direct debit had been changed but a different account had been 
cancelled which Shawbrook incorrectly recorded. The investigator thought Shawbrook 
should remove the September 2022 missed payment marker but thought it had tried to 
contact Miss B. He also recommended it pay £100 compensation.
Miss B doesnt accept that view and says she was told in a February 2023 call that all the 
markers would be removed.
Shawbrook hasnt replied to the investigators view or provided the information that was 
requested.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that the fairest approach to this 
complaint would be for Shawbrook to remove all late or missed payment markers from Miss 
Bs credit file. I said that as its clear that both sides to this complaint could have dealt with 
matters differently, but I thought on balance the initial problems were caused by Shawbrook.
I agreed with the investigator about what is more likely to have taken place with the direct 
debit problem. I could see the original direct debit was cancelled and a new one set up which 
must have been successful as the August 2022 payment was taken. I also thought it likely 
that the wrong direct debit was then cancelled and thought on balance that must have been 
due to Shawbrook. I couldnt see how else the issue arose and thought it clear from looking 
at Miss Bs bank account statements that she had sufficient money in the account to meet 
the direct debit payments. I also thought it was always Miss Bs intention that the payments 
be made.
I didnt think Shawbrook had either commented on the investigators view or provided 
evidence of an alternative explanation for what took place. I couldnt see that it had 
explained why the amended direct debit was taken but then cancelled and didnt think it had 
commented on the different account details. So, I thought on balance the mistake in 
cancelling the correctly set up direct debit, originated in Shawbrook.
I appreciated Shawbrook did try and contact Miss B and I didnt think it clear why she didnt 
either reply to those calls or notice the direct debits had failed. I appreciated Miss B said a 
postal strike may have prevented her receiving letters, but I couldnt see why that would 
have been the case. I thought if there were such disruptions then it more likely there would 
be a delay in receiving letters. But I could see that Miss B, when she says was aware of the 
problem, did pay the three months arears.
I said the key question was the removal of the missed payment markers. I accepted that 
lenders must report accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies and Miss B did 
miss three payments. But I didnt think that explained the true position. I was satisfied on 
balance the problem was caused by a mistake, not made by Miss B, which was rectified 
when realised. I also saw that Shawbrook then appeared to have made a mistake by 
recording a missed payment for January 2023 which must have been a mistake and may 
have given Miss B the impression in a telephone call in February 2023 that it would remove 
all of the markers. I said may have as Shawbrook had not provided that call or any of the 
other information requested by the investigator.
So, on balance I thought the fairest approach would be for Shawbrook to remove all missed 
or late payment markers from Miss Bs credit file. I thought that approach fairly reflected that 
a genuine mistake may have been the cause of the problem here rather than a borrower that 
either couldnt make a required payment or chose not to make one.
I also agreed with the investigator that as on balance the problem is more likely to have been 
caused by Shawbrook, that it should pay £100 compensation which I thought was fair and 
reasonable. I appreciated compensation was not the main part of this complaint.
Miss B agrees with my provisional view but again Shawbrook has not replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional view 
and for the exact same reasons.
Putting things right
Shawbrook should pay Miss B £100 compensation and remove all late or missed payment 
markers from her credit file. It should remove any adverse information it has recorded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
remove all missed payment markers and or adverse information from Miss Bs credit file as 
well as pay her £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 David Singh
Ombudsman