DRN-2389117
The complaint
R complains about the service provided by Aldermore Bank Plc when it applied for a 
mortgage to allow it to buy a property. R complains about the time it took, the lack of 
communication about charges and the solicitors fees. R wants reimbursement of the 
additional cots and compensation for the trouble and upset.
What happened
R bought a property at auction on 2 December 2019 and applied to Aldermore for a 
mortgage on a property and to use that money to buy the property. R applied for a mortgage 
and got a Decision in Principle on 5 December 2019. R says that it was promised the offer 
would issue by 20 December. A mortgage offer issued on 6 January 2020 which, besides a 
charge over the property, required a personal guarantee. In addition to its own legal fees, R 
had to pay those of Aldermores solicitor. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe that Aldermore had done anything wrong. R 
disagreed referring to a phone call on 6 January when it was told that the mortgage offer 
was issuing but not about the involvement of a solicitor for Aldermore.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of this complaint relates to time and part to cost. R bought a property at auction and 
completion was to be within 28 days. I see that because of the Christmas break, completion 
was re-scheduled by the solicitors for 10 January. Aldermore didnt issue an offer until 6 
January. Completion took place on 15 January.  So, the mortgage offer wasnt available 
within the time that R hoped. But there is no evidence that Aldermore agreed to issue a 
mortgage offer within a specified time period. R says that when the funds were released on 
15 January that this was 4 weeks later than verbally agreed but Ive no evidence of that 
verbal agreement and I cant see that any reasonable lender would be working on the tight 
time scales that R says they agreed to work. But also, a period between application and offer 
of between 4-5 weeks with Christmas intervening doesnt seems unreasonable, nor does the 
six-week period from application to release of money. 
R raises a particular issue that the mortgage offer issued on issued on the 6/7 January or 
thereabouts and that completion didnt take place until 15 January. Again, that period doesnt 
seem excessive. R complains that Aldermore didnt instruct solicitors until late on in the 
process or inform him that it would do so. On acceptance of the mortgage offer, Aldermore 
instructed solicitors. I wouldnt have expected Aldermore to instruct solicitors before the 
mortgage offer issued and until R indicated its acceptance of the terms. To do so earlier if R 
hadnt accepted the terms would be pointless. And its common practice for lenders in non-
residential mortgages involving limited companies to appoint their own solicitors to act on 
their behalf to ensure that their security is perfected, and I see nothing unusual in that. 
Indeed, the Decision in Principle dated 5 December 2019 refers to the fact that R will be 
paying Aldermores legal costs.
If I read it correctly Rs main complaint relates to a lack of getting the full information during a 
phone call with Aldermore. But the mortgage offer issued shortly thereafter and that 
contained the full information and I wouldnt expect a phone call, to be as detailed as the 
mortgage offer. At that stage of course the conduct of the process from Aldermores hands 
into those of its solicitors, I can see from the emails that R was pressing Aldermore and that 
Aldermore was pressing its solicitors to expedite completion. But at that stage from the issue 
of the mortgage offer until completion, the conduct of the transaction was in the hands of the 
respective legal teams.
There is a related issue that it was only in the mortgage offer that Aldermore asked for a 
personal guarantee. When Aldermore issued its offer, it asked for a personal guarantee. 
Whether or not this was mentioned in the phone call of 6 January, Aldermore is entitled to 
ask for additional security and so it asked in the mortgage offer for this guarantee. I note 
again in the Decision in Principle that besides the legal charge, Aldermore says that other 
securities might be required which was indeed the case. Personal guarantees arent unusual 
in the case of borrowing by a limited company. Perhaps less so in a buy to let situation but 
the request for a personal guarantee isnt unreasonable. I appreciate this wasnt raised 
before the mortgage offer issued but again thats not unusual as a mortgage offer will set out 
the terms on which a lender is willing to lend and after that R could consider if it wanted to 
borrow on those terms, A lender is entitled to review and amend the terms on which it will 
lend before issuing its mortgage offer.  
The second issue seems to be one of cost. Aldermore instructed solicitors to act on its 
behalf in relation to the security. Aldermore told R that it would be paying for that in the 
mortgage offer and indeed supplied a list of tariffs so that R was aware of what that cost 
would be. Aldermores solicitor charged in line with the list of tariffs. I dont consider those 
costs to be unreasonable or unwarranted.
I know from reading the file that the owner of R was very upset by all this and found it very 
stressful. But there is nothing unusual about the time that this took - and it was over the 
Christmas break - or in the fees that R had to pay, or the personal guarantee, or how 
Aldermore instructed its solicitors. I cant help feeling that Rs expectations could have been 
better managed given that the Christmas period was right in the middle of this. But as this 
wasnt a residential mortgage and Aldermore werent providing advice, I cant fairly hold 
Aldermore at fault for that. So, for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman