DRN-2531629
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 3 December 2019, Mr and Mrs H took out an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker, which was insured by Great Lakes. The policy year began on 1 January 
2020 and was due to end on 31 December 2020. The policy covered trips of up to 35 days 
duration taken in Europe. Mr and Mrs H had taken the insurance to cover a holiday they 
planned to take to the Netherlands in April 2020.
Mr and Mrs H paid £496.31 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, 
which also covered the medical conditions Mr H had told Great Lakes about. The price they 
paid for the policy included a discount of £51.04.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advising 
against all but essential travel, Mr and Mrs H had to cancel their trip. They got in touch with 
their broker on 1 May 2020 to cancel their policy. They wanted a refund of the premiums 
theyd paid.
Great Lakes didnt agree to pay Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata cash refund of their policy premium. 
Ultimately, it offered Mr and Mrs H three options:
The chance to get a pro-rata credit towards buying a 15-month travel insurance 
policy, for the price of 12 months;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred 12-month annual policy;
A UK-only annual policy, with the opportunity to upgrade the destination at a later 
date.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. He didnt think the regulators rules 
required it to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs H had paid. And he didnt think Great Lakes 
terms and conditions entitled Mr and Mrs H to any refund either. He considered that Great 
Lakes had carried the risk of Mr and Mrs H making a claim between 1 January and 1 May 
2020. But he thought it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay them a pro-rata 
refund of premium from the date the policy was cancelled. And in the circumstances, he felt 
it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a credit voucher for the pro-rata amount.
 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said theyd taken the annual policy because it was about the 
same cost as a single trip policy. It became obvious that due to Covid-19, they wouldnt be 
able to use the insurance. They feel theyve never been offered a satisfactory refund or a 
sensible credit. They consider their policy had become useless because of Covid-19 and this 
remained the case. Theyve referred to a recent high court judgment relating to Covid-19 
claims and they feel their complaint falls within the scope of that judgment.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. Ill explain why.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts such as Mr and Mrs Hs policy have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if they had done so within 14 days, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full 
refund of the price theyd paid. 
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy with Great Lakes set out their 
cancellation rights under the insurance contract. This section says:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than the industry rules require. In this case, Mr and Mrs Hs policy was bought on 3 
December 2019 and cancelled on 1 May 2020. This was clearly significantly more than 14 
days after they bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement, or a policyholders medical conditions 
changing. In my view, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to use its 
discretion and consider the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. Thats 
because I dont think this type of situation, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
And so I dont think Mr and Mrs H are entitled to any refund of their premium under the terms 
and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand why any future trips Mr and Mrs H might have had planned during the 
remainder of the policy year  and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance 
policy  changed because of circumstances outside of their control. So Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs contract with it because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Hs contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 1 January 2020. This means that from that 
date, Mr and Mrs H were insured for travelling on any number of trips of up to 35 days long, 
which they may have taken up until the policy was cancelled on 1 May 2020. Because of the 
way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many 
such trips Mr and Mrs H took (unless theyd made a claim under the policy). There may have 
been many trips or there may have been none, but Great Lakes was covering the risk of a 
claim while the policy was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs H for cancellation of any holidays which 
theyd booked and were due to take from 1 January 2020 until 1 May 2020. This means they 
would have been covered if theyd had to cancel any number of holidays because of any 
listed events insured under the policy, including the medical conditions Mr H had declared.
On this basis, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr and Mrs H making a successful 
cancellation claim for any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any 
number of holidays, from 1 January 2020 until 1 May 2020. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Hs 
cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to keep any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered.However, after 1 May 2020, due to Covid-19, Great Lakes no longer bore any risk under Mr 
and Mrs Hs insurance policy for the upcoming holiday. The holiday had already been 
cancelled due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great 
Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of that holiday being cancelled for any other 
insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no 
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr and Mrs H were travelling abroad. 
After the policy was cancelled, Great Lakes was not providing cancellation cover for any 
other holidays which Mr and Mrs H may have had booked, or for any travelling that they may 
have done either abroad or within the UK. 
So based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs H 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance 
policy from 1 May 2020.
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Hs 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Hs reasons for cancelling the policy, it was their decision to 
do so. They entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great 
Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by 
way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs H. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs H a credit voucher for the pro-rata amount of £315.36. 
The voucher can be used by Mr and Mrs H, or they can use it to set up travel insurance for 
another person. The voucher can be put towards a 15-month annual policy for the price of 
12 months; a 12-month annual policy with a deferred start date or a UK only annual policy. 
All three options are currently valid indefinitely (although they may subsequently be 
withdrawn). Great Lakes has also said it will consider the voucher being used as a credit 
towards a single trip policy.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs H may not wish to use a voucher, especially given the 
uncertainty around future travel plans. But as Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to find that Great Lakes should pay a cash refund. And while Mr and Mrs 
H have referred to a court judgment, the subject matter of the recent court case did not 
relate to the calculation of travel insurance premium refunds. Having considered everything, 
I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are overly restrictive. This means I think the 
voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. And Im 
satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly or any differently to other 
customers in similar circumstances. 
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Hs unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. 
The premium Mr and Mrs H paid for this policy was to cover the period between 1 January 
2020 to 31 December 2020. Great Lakes calculated this to be 366 days.
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs H equates to the 
premiums equivalent to 245 unused days of cover from 1 May 2020 until the original end 
date of the insurance policy on 31 December 2020. 
This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from 
the date the policy was cancelled.  I think this fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, 
so I wont be telling Great Lakes to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman