DRN-4480588
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr M through their representative, complain that Mortgage Express has treated 
them unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage, during a period when they were no 
longer offering new mortgages. Mrs B and Mr M say because of their circumstances and the 
tighter lending rules around affordability checks, introduced as part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys review (FCA) in 2014, they have been unable to re-mortgage elsewhere and as 
such considered mortgage prisoners.
What happened
On the 16 June 2006, Mrs B and Mr M were offered a residential mortgage with GMAC-RFC 
Limited (GMAC). The mortgage was taken out on an interest only term over 15 years. Mrs 
B and Mr M agreed the mortgage on a fixed interest rate for two years at 5.75% until 30 
June 2008. After which the mortgage would revert to GMACs Standard Variable Rate 
(SVR) for the remainder of the term of the mortgage  which at the time was 6.49%.
Soon after the mortgage was taken, towards the end of 2007, Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage 
was transferred to Mortgage Express  a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bradford and Bingley 
(B&B). Following the global financial crisis in 2008/2009, B&B was nationalised in late 2008 
and along with its subsidiaries, they stopped offering new mortgage products. So, from this 
point Mrs B and Mr M were unable to apply for a new fixed rate product with Mortgage 
Express as they had no alternative interest rate products to offer them. Mrs B and Mr M say 
that due to their circumstances and tighter lending conditions, they have been unable to re-
mortgage with a different lender. As such, Mrs B and Mr M remained on Mortgage Express 
SVR.
Over the years between the mortgage starting in 2006 and the complaint being raised with 
Mortgage Express on 7 September 2021, there have been a number of changes to both the 
Bank of England base rate (base rate) and the SVR. The key things to note regarding the 
history of the changes is as follows:
From the mortgage start date in 2006 until 1 January 2009, all the variations 
Mortgage Express made to the SVR were soon after the changes to the base rate 
and largely by the same amount.
By March 2009 the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 
2.00% to 4.34%.
From 2009 onwards, the only changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR were 
made soon after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount.
In September 2021, Mrs B and Mr Ms representative raised this complaint with Mortgage 
Express on their behalf. The complaint letter set out in summary:
Mortgage Express withdrew from the mortgage market in 2009 and stopped offering 
new interest rate products. Because of the tighter rules around affordability checks 
introduced as part of the FCAs review in 2014, Mrs B and Mr M became mortgage 
prisoners as they were unable to move their mortgage to another lender, with no 
choice but to remain on Mortgage Express SVR.
The SVR charged by Mortgage Express since Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage reverted 
was unfairly high, especially in these circumstances where they have been unable to 
re-mortgage with another lender.
The way Mortgage Express margin between the SVR and the base rate increased 
over the years is unfair. When the mortgage was taken out this was 1.99% but by 
March 2009, it was 4.34%.
Mortgage Express discretion to set and vary the SVR was subject to an implied term 
that it could not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, 
arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do. 
Mortgage Express actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCAs Handbook 
whereby a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. And a breach of MCOB 11.8.1 which provides that in situations where a 
customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated mortgage contract with their 
existing lender or new mortgage lender, a lender should not take advantage of the 
customers situation or treat them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics. 
Mrs B and Mr M have suffered additional financial problems due to the monthly costs 
which led to bankruptcy in 2014 whereby their home was only saved due to family 
intervention.
Mrs B and Mr M seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they 
paid on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to 
what they deem to be a reasonable rate. 
Mortgage Express responded to the complaint on 1 November 2021. In summary they said 
they did not uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Part of the complaint about events that occurred more than six years before the 
complaint was made, had been brought too late.
The SVR is not a base rate tracker mortgage. The mortgage offer states the SVR is 
variable (in given circumstances) under the mortgage terms.
The transfer from GMAC to Mortgage Express did not affect any of the terms and 
conditions of Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage. The terms and conditions set out when the 
SVR may be varied. When Mortgage Express exercised their right to vary the SVR, 
they did so in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
The alleged implied term said to derive from relevant case law does not apply here. 
As the mortgage conditions relevant to Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage statement 
expressly sets out the basis on which Mortgage Express can vary its SVR, it is 
therefore not necessary to imply any further terms into the mortgage agreement. 
There were no express guarantees in the mortgage offer that Mrs B and Mr M would 
be provided with a new mortgage in the future. Neither as there any obligation on 
GMAC or subsequently Mortgage Express to provide a new mortgage. 
If Mrs B and Mr M were unhappy with the interest rate being charged on their 
mortgage by Mortgage Express, they were free to re-mortgage elsewhere, without 
incurring an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) from 1 July 2008. Mortgage Express 
provides details of a comparison tool on its website to make it easy for customers to 
compare deals and switch to another lender if they wish to do so. 
At all relevant times, Mortgage Express has acted as a reasonable lender and 
complied with all of its regulatory obligations, whether under the principles set out in 
the FCA Handbook, the MCOB or otherwise. 
Mrs B and Mr Ms representative referred this complaint to our service on 24 March 2022. Our investigator issued his opinion on the limitations to our jurisdiction and what this meant 
for Mrs B and Mr M. In summary he said:
The complaint was raised on 7 September 2021, so he concluded that the complaint 
about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years prior to this, 
had been raised in time. Which would be from 7 September 2015 onward. So, he 
was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 7 September 
onward were fair and reasonable. 
That under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than 
six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought within 
three years from the date the consumer became aware, that they had cause for 
complaint. The investigator explained why he thought Mrs B and Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been aware of their cause for complaint more than three years 
before making their complaint. So, he didnt think this part of the rule gave them any 
more time to complain.
Our investigator then went on to provide his opinion, not upholding the merits of Mrs B and 
Mr Ms complaint. He said:
Mrs B and Mr M mortgage contract did not commit to track the base rate. They were 
made sufficiently aware of the relevant terms set out by GMAC and Mortgage 
Express has sought to charge interest in accordance with those terms. 
The investigator set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mrs B and Mr M 
experienced because of the mortgage payments based on changes to the interest 
rate. And the need to consider whether Mortgage Express had exercised the terms 
fairly. He was not persuaded Mortgage Express varied the rate unfairly. 
The difference between the SVR and the base rate largely occurred between 2007 
and 2009. The investigator set out that this was a time of significant change in the 
wider market as a result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of 
the businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates. 
The investigator said that Mortgage Express was an inactive lender, so they didnt 
offer new lending or mortgage products to Mrs B and Mr M. He said that Mrs B and 
Mr M were not being treated any differently from any other Mortgage Express 
customers with similar characteristics when offering new interest rates  but 
Mortgage Express doesnt offer products to anyone because they cant. He also said 
that Mortgage Express didnt place any barriers to stop Mrs B or Mr M approaching 
another lender. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that Mortgage 
Express has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mrs B and Mr Ms representative said they disagreed with the investigators opinion. In 
summary, they said the following:
Despite Mrs B and Mr M receiving interest rate statements, they did not have the 
knowledge or understanding to know they were mortgage prisoners and did not do so 
until 2019. Mrs B and Mr Ms primary complaint is the breach of an implied term. The 
investigator only considers the express terms of the mortgage and does not, in any 
event, deal with the compliance/non-compliance of these terms in sufficient detail for 
their clients to understand the reasoning behind the decision.
Mrs B and Mr M have communicated with Mortgage Express on many occasions to 
be asked to be moved to a different interest rate. They do not agree that its a 
relevant consideration that Mortgage Express didnt offer products to anyone 
because they were unable to. The trapped status of a mortgage customer is relevant 
and amounts to a breach of the implied term. Our investigator addressed these points further, but Mrs B and Mr M didnt agree with the 
outcome and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
I have already issued a decision letting Mrs B and Mr M know which parts of their complaint I 
can consider. In summary, I said that our service can only consider whether Mortgage 
Express has treated Mrs B and Mr M unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage, 
during a period when it was no longer offering new mortgages  from September 2015 
onwards. Mrs B and Mr Ms complaint about events that occurred before this date had been 
brought too late. Ill now issue my decision on this part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook to take into account the relevant law, 
regulations, and good industry practice when reaching my decision.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont 
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service.
Having done that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mrs B and Mr M.  But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help 
them understand why I have come to this conclusion. 
Mrs B and Mr Ms representative have raised multiple complaint points. However I will 
consider the overall complaint and will break it down into two key points:
Mrs B and Mr Ms inability to access a new interest rate with Mortgage Express, 
which they say, by definition, made them mortgage prisoners. 
Mrs B and Mr M have paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what they 
should have paid. They say the way in which Mortgage Express has exercised their 
discretion to set and vary the SVR is in breach of an implied term.
I will deal with each point in turn.
Access to interest rates
As already explained, our service can only consider Mrs B and Mr Ms complaint about their 
access to interest rates from 7 September 2015 onwards, In the event I recommended any 
redress, I would only be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint. That 
said, when considering this part of the complaint, I think its necessary for me to set out the 
background to Mortgage Express lending structure. 
Mortgage Express is whats known as a closed book lender. Their parent company B&B 
collapsed and was nationalised in 2008. Because B&B is government owned, they cant offer 
new lower interest rates that would compete with other lenders. The same applies for 
Mortgage Express as a wholly owned subsidiary of B&B. After this date and after customers 
fixed rate products ended, all B&B and Mortgage Express customers were charged the 
same SVR rate. Its part of the terms of the nationalisation that B&B (and Mortgage Express 
as their subsidiary) only offered a standard variable rate  which is comparable to the SVRs 
of other lenders. 
I have considered the representatives point that Mortgage Express has breached Principle 6 
of the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.8.1  by not offering Mrs B and Mr M a new interest 
rate. Having done so, Im not persuaded by this. All of Mortgage Express customers are in 
the same position, and Mrs B and Mr M are not being treated differently to them.It is generally expected that new interest rates are available when an old one expires  but 
theres no regulatory or contractual right to a new rate. So in light of all the above, I dont 
think Mortgage Express has done anything wrong in not offering a new rate to Mrs B and Mr 
M. 
As a closed book lender, Mortgage Express should not stand in the way of customers 
moving to another lender. From what I can see, they havent placed any barriers to Mrs B 
and Mr M approaching another lender. 
In October 2019, the FCA relaxed their affordability requirement when assessing a mortgage 
application, in the hope of allowing borrowers with an inactive lender, to move to an active 
lender. This didnt directly affect inactive lenders  who had no products for borrowers to 
apply for  but the FCA did require them to contact borrowers to inform them of this change. 
This was so that borrowers could take steps in finding a new mortgage, hopefully on more 
favourable terms, with another lender. 
Mortgage Express had until January 2021 to contact all eligible borrowers and would have 
sent Mrs B and Mr M a letter. This letter directed Mrs B and Mr M to where they could check 
the likelihood of being offered a lower rate with another lender. Its not entirely clear if Mrs B 
or Mr M took advantage of this, or if they did, what the outcome was as they still have their 
mortgage with Mortgage Express. But in any event, it wouldnt have any bearing on the 
ability of Mortgage Express being able to offer a new mortgage product. 
So based on the above and for the reasons given, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
The fairness of the interest charged on Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage
I must consider whether from 7 September 2015 onwards Mrs B and Mr M have paid an 
unfairly high rate of interest. To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, its helpful to 
first set out the relevant terms themselves.
The relevant section of the mortgage offer issued to Mrs B and Mr M in June 2006 set out 
that their fixed interest rate would operate as follows:
- Interest only mortgage for a 15-year term
-A fixed rate of 5.75 % until 30 June 2008
-From 1 July 2008, the rate that will apply is GMAC-RFC Ltd standard variable rate, 
6.49% for the remaining term of the mortgage
The mortgage terms and conditions set out what powers Mortgage Express has to vary the 
SVR. They state the following:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the 
following reasons:
(a) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the Bank of England base rate of interest rates generally;
(b) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c) to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, 
in the interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d) to reflect a change in the law or decision by a court; or
(e) to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar 
body.
Mrs B and Mr M believe that following the mortgage being transferred to Mortgage Express, 
the SVR would from then on, act like the variable rates offered by Mortgage Express. But 
Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage was taken out with GMAC, on the terms agreed with GMAC.These terms, make no mention of the SVR needing to maintain a fixed margin above the 
Bank of England Base Rate (BoEBR) or any other benchmark. It is common when 
mortgages are transferred between lenders that the terms are agreed between the borrower 
and the original lender are maintained and Ive not seen anything to suggest that this wasnt 
the case here. 
While Mortgage Express now had the power to vary the SVR that applied to Mrs B and Mr 
Ms mortgage, those powers stemmed from the terms and conditions agreed initially with 
GMAC. These didnt require GMAC to maintain a fixed margin above BoEBR, then neither 
would they required Mortgage Express to. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that GMAC or subsequently Mortgage 
Express, were obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have Mrs B and Mr Ms SVR track the 
base rate. Theres also nothing in the terms and conditions that entitled Mrs B and Mr M to a 
new interest rate. So to that extent, the mortgage operated as it should.
Ive considered whether the terms of Mrs B and Mr Ms agreement go further than 
reasonably necessary to protect GMAC (and later Mortgage Express) legitimate interests 
and whether the variation clauses are sufficiently transparent.
Mortgage Express funding was secured at B&B Group level. This consisted solely of an 
inter-company loan from B&B. Decisions as to the setting of the Mortgage Express SVR 
were made exclusively at B&B Group level. B&B has said that the primary factor in relation 
to the movement of the Mortgage Express SVR during the period in question has been the 
cost of funding their mortgages. Therefore, largely relying on the terms of 3(b) when it made 
variations to their SVR.
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that the terms necessarily meet the wider 
transparency requirements. While grammatically they are easy to follow, the terms allowing 
for the SVR to be varied are broad, and in the circumstances in which changes might be 
made to give Mortgage Express significant discretion about when they can make changes to 
the SVR and by how much.
That said, this alone is not a determination for the case. The central issue I need to decide is 
whether there has been any unfairness to Mrs B and Mr M from September 2015 onwards. 
The fairness of the underlying variation clauses will not itself properly answer that question. 
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent to which, the terms 
have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mrs B and Mr M. I think that is the 
ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case. 
When considering everything, Im satisfied Mortgage Express has operated fairly and within 
the relevant terms and conditions. Ill explain why.
Has Mortgage Express exercised the terms fairly?
As previously explained, changes made to Mortgage Express SVR were decided at B&B 
Group level. Throughout my decision, when referring to variations to the SVR, for ease I will 
refer to Mortgage Express as setting the SVR.
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the 
fairness of interest charged to Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage since 7 September 2015, why its 
necessary for me to consider historic changes to Mortgage Express SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all the changes Mortgage Express has made 
to the SVR since Mrs B and Mr M took their mortgage. Having done so, Im not persuaded 
that anything Mortgage Express has done in varying the rate has led to Mrs B and Mr M 
being treated unfairly for the period I can consider. I have set out why below. 
For reasons of commercially confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence the B&B 
Group has been able to provide in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to Mrs B and Mr M. Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it 
is disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate 
to accept the information and evidence B&B Group has provided in confidence, subject to 
the summary of it I have set out in this decision. 
Mrs B and Mr Ms fixed rate ended in June 2008 and its at this point, the mortgage moved to 
the SVR. Ive already set out that Mrs B and Mr Ms mortgage was not a lifetime mortgage, 
so Mortgage Express were not contractually obligated to set their SVR at a level that tracked 
the base rate for the duration of the mortgage term. Nor is it the case that Mrs B and Mr Ms 
mortgage had a cap preventing Mortgage Express SVR from increasing beyond a certain 
margin above base rate. So, there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited 
Mortgage Express from setting the SVR at a level whereby the margin between the SVR and 
the base rate would change. But that doesnt mean they could set the SVR at whatever level 
it chose. 
The term enabling Mortgage Express to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent 
businesses taking advantage of customers), and Mortgage Express had to ensure that in 
varying the SVR they only did so for one of the reasons set out in the contract. 
I consider the main variations to the SVR to have taken place in 2009. At this time, in 2009, 
the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a result of the 
global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including B&B and was 
reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at the 
time. 
This was clear at the time and has been subject of analysis by both the Bank of England and 
the FCA since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the cost to 
lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their prudential requirements. These 
were made up of several factors that are not directly linked to base rate. There was a 
substantial risk to all lenders during this period and they all had to find ways to mitigate that 
risk while balancing the need to treat customers fairly. 
The B&B Group has told us that, like many lenders at the time, B&B was predominantly 
funded by wholesale funding. The cost of which was in the most part, contractually defined 
by reference to LIBOR and LIBOR generally followed base rate prior to the financial crisis. 
As a result, changes in base rate tended to result in changes to cost of funding. Before the 
financial crisis, changes in costs of their retail funding also tended to correspond to changes 
in base rate. 
However, during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between LIBOR and 
base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate reductions 
to LIBOR or to B&Bs cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale funding 
became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default  B&B 
in particular has shown how their credit rating was impacted and the implications this had on 
their ability to raise funds and the cost of their funding  including how this impacted the cost 
of the inter-company loan they sourced to Mortgage Express. 
To avoid collapse, State Aid in the form of Working Capital Facility loan was extended to 
B&B from September 2008. With the aid came several conditions on how B&B could operate 
their obligations on how and when they should look to repay the loan. Understandably, this 
significantly impacted their commercial strategy and with it, the cost of funding mortgages 
like that of Mrs B and Mr M. To add to this, B&B was nationalised in September 2008 and 
their entire share capital was transferred to HM Treasury (such that B&B became a wholly 
owned subsidiary), and Mortgage Express an indirect subsidiary of HM Treasury. 
So, whilst the State Aid extended to B&B also benefited Mortgage Express, it came with 
certain obligations on B&B which also filtered through to the operation of Mortgage Express 
and as such are relevant factors when considering the impact this had on the setting of 
Mortgage Express SVR. Mortgage Express reduced the SVR on several occasions during this period, just not by the 
same proportion as the base rate. Given the documented increase to cost of funding across 
the industry, including the B&B Group specifically, and the obligations surrounding 
government requirements and the Working Capital Facility loan, Im satisfied the Group 
balanced their own financial position and obligations at the time with the impact such 
changes would have on customers like Mrs B and Mr M.
While I note and have considered the evidence relied on by Mrs B and Mr Ms 
representative, I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided 
by the Group on the impact of the financial crisis on their own cost of funding. In addition, as 
I have said above, I have then considered other sources such as the Bank of England that 
leads me to a different conclusion from that of Mrs B and Mr Ms representative. 
I have not seen any evidence to suggest the changes to Mortgage Express to the SVR were 
arbitrary, excessive or unfair. Rather, the evidence Ive seen satisfies me that Mortgage 
Express acted to protect their legitimate interests while balancing their obligation to treat Mrs 
B and Mr M fairly. And as explained, Im further satisfied that the evidence Mortgage 
Express has provided is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time. 
So to conclude, I am not persuaded that Mortgage Express operated the terms in an unfair 
manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mrs B and Mr Ms 
mortgage. I dont think there is any basis to say that they somehow contributed to Mrs B and 
Mr M being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage during the period I can 
consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say the interest they were charging during that period 
was unfair for any other reason. 
From 2009 onwards, the only changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR were made soon 
after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount. 
Finally I note that Mrs B and Mr Ms representative argues that Mortgage Express has 
breached what they say was an implied term, not to exercise their discretion to vary the SVR 
arbitrary, capriciously, perversely or irrationally. For the reasons set out above, if there was 
such a duty in the present case, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express did not breach it since 
they approached the question of varying the SVR fairly and in line with the terms of the 
contract. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman