DRN-4257551
The complaint
Miss C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd added a marker about her to CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed her account.
What happened
Miss C says that the marker is affecting her ability to get an account elsewhere and save 
money.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake and that it had followed its internal processes and 
complied with its obligations.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss C had received a 
payment of £320 into her account on 6 June 2022 that had been reported as fraudulently 
obtained. She had transferred £270 of this to a third party that day. Miss C said she had 
never been told about the issue with this payment. On her complaint form she said that this 
Monzo Bank account was the one she used for savings or if people were sending her 
money. She then explained that she let her boyfriend use her card as he didnt have a bank 
account. Miss C said that this money had been sent by a friend of his and she couldnt 
remember the reason. This often related to bets and money he was owed. She provided a 
screenshot she said showed she had been asked to send the £270 to another friend of his. 
Miss C said that she didnt personally know the people involved but he had known them for a 
while. Our adjudicator considered that Monzo Bank had grounds to apply the marker and 
close her account.
Miss C didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Miss C was deliberately complicit in what 
happened include whether she knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt 
legitimate, whether she may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether 
she has provided generic or inconsistent explanations.
I note that Monzo Bank has provided evidence that it sent Miss C a message on 7 June 
2022 with a number of questions about her account including the source of and her 
entitlement to this credit of £320. And the reason for the payment out of £270. It doesnt 
appear she read this or contacted Monzo Bank after her bank account was closed.
Our adjudicator has set out the entries on 6 June 2022. And I can see that on 7 June 2022 
£32 was also sent from the account and the reference of the payee for that was Miss C.
Miss C didnt explain at first that she allowed someone else to use her account. And she 
has only provided her testimony about this. It isnt possible to verify the screenshot, but it 
doesnt provide any background to support what she says about the reason for receiving 
and sending the money. 
Im afraid I consider Miss C was reasonably responsible for what happened on the account. 
And for ensuring she knew about the credits being received and the payments made. On 
her version of events, she had no real idea where the money was coming from and what it 
was being used for. And she was in control of the payment out of £270 and it appears 
retained at least part of the related credit. She had the opportunity at the time to provide 
evidence to Monzo Bank. Unfortunately, the credit had been reported as fraudulent and I 
think on the evidence she was most likely complicit in what happened for the reasons Ive 
given.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss C received fraudulent 
funds into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Monzo Bank was fair to apply the marker, 
based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Cs account of events and the evidence she has provided, Im 
satisfied that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss C received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Monzo 
Bank at the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Miss C had used fraudulently obtained 
funds based on the evidence it had.
In the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for it to decide to close her account 
taking into account its terms and conditions. I can appreciate how disappointed Miss C will 
be by my assessment given what she says about the impact of the marker for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman