DRN-3497554
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank failed 
to introduce Confirmation of Payee(CoP) checks, which they say caused issues on their 
business account when their customers were sending them money.
What happened
C is a limited company which holds a business account with Yorkshire Bank. Their business 
has a number of subscribers, who pay for their subscriptions through various channels, with 
payments ultimately being deposited into Cs Yorkshire Bank account. 
In August 2019 the Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) introduced Confirmation of Payee 
(CoP) checks, which help verify a recipients bank details before a transfer is made. C says 
that since this was introduced, theyve seen increased communications from customers 
querying payment details, and theyve said that some customers havent been able to 
transfer monies at all on occasions and instead sent cheques, causing further inconvenience 
due to a lengthy journey to pay them in. 
They say Yorkshire Banks failure to introduce these checks has caused significant 
disruption to their business, and they want an explanation as to why they havent introduced 
CoP checks by now, and want to be compensated for the impact caused. 
Yorkshire Bank responded. They apologised for any inconvenience the matter had caused, 
and confirmed that they were looking to implement CoP checks soon but were unable to 
provide a completion date for implementation at this time. But C remained unhappy, so they 
brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the matter but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
said there was no obligation for Yorkshire Bank to introduce CoP checks, so they couldnt 
say theyd done anything wrong. But C remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2019 the Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) issued a direction to six of the 
largest UK Banking Groups to fully implement CoP checks by 31 March 2020. This was later 
extended to 30 June 2020, due to issues caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
When a consumer makes a payment, their bank or building society sends the information 
they have entered  payee name, account type (personal or business), sort code and 
account number  to the receiving bank or building society. The receiving bank or building 
society is then responsible for comparing this information to their account holders details, 
and the consumer will receive a response to inform them whether or not the details match. 
When the guidance was brought about, six of the leading banks were given a deadline by 
which to implement these checks. But for the remaining banks, this remained optional, with 
banks being able to sign up if they so wished  but there was no obligation for them to do so. 
As such, there was equally no deadline for them to do so. 
Yorkshire Bank hadnt implemented CoP checks at the time of Cs complaint, and there was 
no requirement for them to do so, so they had no control over what message their 
subscribers may have received from their own banks when trying to make payments to C. As 
there was no requirement for CoP to have been implemented, I cant fairly say Yorkshire 
Bank have done anything wrong in this regard. 
C has said that, as well as subscribers receiving messages telling them they couldnt verify 
Cs payee details, there were also occasions where they couldnt make the payment at all. 
But generally speaking, in these situations, customers can still choose to push those 
payments through. And if they were unable to, then this would be for them to approach their 
sending bank about directly.
I appreciate that Yorkshire Banks decision not to have implemented CoP checks at the time 
of Cs complaint has caused C some additional administration and inconvenience as a 
business. But as there was no requirement for C to implement these checks, and this new 
initiative remained entirely optional, I cant say that they have done anything wrong. I 
therefore make no award against them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman