DRN-2837120
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy about Financial Claims Made Simple Ltd trading as Reclaim PPI 
(Reclaim) asking her to pay their success fee for payment protection insurance (PPI) 
claims.
What happened
Miss S said she hadnt instructed Reclaim to pursue PPI claims on her behalf. She said she 
was prepared to pay, if they could show evidence of what work theyd actually done. She 
said it wasnt possible to discuss her claims with Reclaim as they didnt have a telephone 
number. Miss S said shed offered a settlement amount, but this had been rejected by 
Reclaim without any negotiation. And that she hadnt received all the redress she was being 
asked to pay their fee for. She complained to Reclaim.
In August 2019, Reclaim said Miss S had instructed them to check whether shed been mis-
sold PPI. They said they were an on-line business, and Miss S had signed their electronic 
letters of authority (LoA). They sent her confirmation that shed chosen to use their services 
to the email address shed provided. But this was returned as the email address wasnt 
correct. They wrote to Miss S and asked her to update her email address so they could keep 
her updated about her claims. Reclaim said their business model used email as their 
communication channel.
Reclaim said theyd submitted Miss S signed LoAs to her lenders. And she had three 
successful claims. Miss S hadnt cancelled her agreement with them, so they said their fees 
were justified as Miss S claims were successful. They also said one of Miss S lenders had 
cancelled her redress cheque as Miss S hadnt cashed it. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Reclaims response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance Miss S had authorised Reclaim to act on her behalf. And 
as her claims were successful it was fair and reasonable for Reclaim to ask Miss S to pay 
their fees.
Miss S said that Reclaim still hadnt shown her what work theyd done. She asked for an 
ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Reclaim feel strongly that Miss S agreed to use their services and that it was because of 
their submission of her LoAs that her mis-sold PPI claims were successful. I can understand 
Miss S frustration as she wants Reclaim to justify the fee, theyve charged her by showing 
her what work theyd done for her. In reaching my decision I need to determine whether I 
think its more likely than not Miss S authorised Reclaim to act on her behalf, and whether 
Reclaim has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
In August 2019, Reclaim said Miss S completed an on-line application for their services to 
check whether shed been mis-sold PPI. In completing the application, they said Miss S 
provided personal details, including full name, current and previous addresses, date of birth 
and contact details, mobile phone number and email address. Also details about lenders she 
wanted Reclaim to check shed any PPI policies with. On completion of the application they 
said Miss S had agreed to their terms and conditions. And LoAs for Miss S lenders were 
generated populated with the specific information about Miss S that had been provided, a 
digital signature was also added.
On receipt of the application, I can see Reclaim sent a confirmatory email to the email 
address given, that ended co.uk. But this wasnt correct I can see from the email address 
Miss S has given to us, her email address ends .com.  So, Miss S didnt receive the email 
confirmation about her claim. But Reclaims records also show they sent the confirmation to 
Miss S in the post, to the address she has given us. And a letter asking her to provide her 
correct email address so that they could provide her with updates about her claims. 
The confirmation letter was dated 8 August 2019 and says:
Thank you for choosing ReclaimPPI.co.uk to investigate your PPI. Please note: to enable 
us to make a claim on your behalf we will need all required documentation back no later than 
12th August 2019 so we can process your claim in time and meet the FCA deadline.
And the letter about the email address, also dated 8 August 2019 says:
We have tried sending an email to you regarding your PPI claim to **************** co.uk 
which has bounced. The subject of the email was Here is a copy of your signed documents.
So, I think Reclaim notified Miss S that shed asked them to investigate her claims for mis-
sold PPI. And that shed already signed documents with them. 
I can see from Reclaims records they also included a summary document and a guide 
explaining what they would do for Miss S, and a timeframe for getting the work done. A copy 
of their terms and conditions and a cancellation form was included in the document pack. 
Reclaims terms and conditions say:
You can cancel this agreement within 14 days from signing it. 
I havent seen any evidence that Miss S responded to either letter sent by Reclaim. Or that 
she asked them to stop working for her or any contact from her questioning why Reclaim 
were investigating PPI on her behalf.  And I dont think its enough to simply disengage from 
the process to consider this as cancellation of the agreement.
In January, February and March 2020, Miss S was notified by her lenders of her successful 
claims. I can see the notifications clearly referenced Reclaim as being her representative. 
For two of Miss S successful claims the lender said:
I have made my decision after reviewing the information provided by you, the
information provided by Financial Claims Made Simple and our internal system
evidence.All of the notifications were also sent to Reclaim. I think this shows Miss S lenders 
recognised Reclaim as acting on her behalf for her mis-sold PPI claims and that Reclaim 
had submitted Miss S claims to them. Taking all the above into account Im satisfied Miss S 
instructed Reclaim to act on her behalf.
The agreement Miss S had with Reclaim was on a No win No fee basis. This means
Reclaim charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, Reclaims fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
I can see that for one of Miss S lenders Ill call H, PPI was found but as Miss S hadnt paid 
any payments towards the PPI policy, no compensation was offered. This would be 
considered an unsuccessful claim and Reclaim havent charged Miss S for the work they did 
for this claim. But Miss S did have three successful claims. I understand Miss S has yet to 
receive the redress for one of these claims as the cheque sent by her lender wasnt cashed. 
Miss S would need to contact her lender to arrange the reissue of the payment. 
Reclaims terms and conditions explain that their fee is payable upon the success of the 
claim. And go on to give monetary examples of how their fee is calculated, as outlined above 
this would be a percentage of the redress Miss S received. And not calculated by the 
amount of work that was done.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management
Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July
2018. From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a success fee
of more than 20% plus VAT. I can see Reclaims percentage fee is 10% plus VAT, and so 
within the fee cap for PPI claims.
I know Miss S will be disappointed with my decision. But I think it more likely than not that  
shed authorised Reclaim to act on her behalf. And she hadnt cancelled that agreement 
before her claims were successful. So, I dont think Reclaim has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in asking her to pay their success fees.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman