DRN-3276162
The complaint
Mrs C complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) irresponsibly 
granted her a loan she couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs C took receipt of a car that she financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. Mrs C was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £250.14, 
with a final optional payment of £7852.21 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the 
agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £19,858.93.
Mrs C says that BMWFS didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. BMWFS didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BMWFS didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs C didnt agree. She explained that the business hadnt reviewed her bank statements at 
the time of application, and she provided a breakdown of her costs from those statements 
which she said demonstrated the agreement wasnt affordable for her.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive not seen evidence that BMWFS asked Mrs C about her regular expenditure during the 
application or that they verified her income. I think it would have been proportionate and 
reasonable for BMWFS to have clarified this information as without it they couldnt know if 
the agreement was affordable. 
I cant be certain what Mrs C would have told BMWFS had it asked about her regular 
expenditure or income. I dont think BMWFS needed to request bank statements, but in the 
absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in 
Mrs Cs statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements prior to the application and had a look at Mrs Cs analysis of 
those statements. I think some of the expenditure Mrs C has highlighted could not fairly be 
considered to be regular committed expenditure. I think the regular committed expenditure 
around the time of application was about £1,150. In calculating this figure, Ive included rent, 
mobile phone, DVLA, gym and monthly household costs and petrol. 
Mrs Cs has explained her income was about £2,700 per month before tax and national 
insurance deductions. Shes suggested those deductions would be about 25% which would 
leave a net income of about £2,025.
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to 
Mrs C. For this reason, Im not persuaded that BMWFS acted unfairly in approving the 
finance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman