DRN-3261114
The complaint
Mr T complained about unsatisfactory repairs that were carried out to his vehicle by esure 
Insurance Limited (esure) after a claim on his motor policy.
What happened
Mr T had his car repaired in January 2019 by esures approved repairers. Over the course of 
2019 Mr T raised three separate issues with the work carried out. Each time the car was 
taken into the approved repairers and the issues rectified, along with esure compensating Mr 
T for his distress and inconvenience.
In April 2021, Mr T raised further issues with esure related to his original claim  he said the 
bumper had scratches on it and was misaligned. esure appointed an independent engineer 
to review the work that had been carried out by the approved repairer. Based on the 
engineers assessment, esure concluded the repairs had been carried out satisfactorily and 
it thought other information provided by Mr T from his garage was inconclusive.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought esure had been fair in 
appointing an independent expert to review the repairs considering the history of the claim. 
She thought esure was fair in concluding the repairs had been satisfactory. Mr T disagreed, 
so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see by the pictures of Mr Ts car that hes looked after his car well and I can 
understand he wants to keep his car in the best condition he can. Unfortunately, Im going to 
disappoint him. I have reviewed all the evidence available to me and Im not going to uphold 
his complaint and Ill explain why.
esure said the information provided by Mr Ts own garage was inconclusive, so I considered 
whether I think it was fair to say this. I have reviewed this information, but the garage 
couldnt and didnt provide reasoning to how the issues raised by Mr T couldve been 
caused. In relation to the alignment issues, the garage suggested these were minor and 
ordinary. The garage suggested new cars could have minor alignment issues, which 
similarly wouldnt need repairing. I think esure has been fair in reviewing this information. I 
dont think it provides evidence of any shortfall in the repairs that were carried out by esures 
appointed repairer.
esure appointed an independent expert to review Mr Ts car after his latest complaint. I think 
this was a reasonable approach, considering the previous issues.
The conclusion of the report stated I can confirm that all rectification work was completed to 
a good standard and to the satisfaction of your insured. However, during a subsequent 
telephone conversation, your insured alleges to have identified other faults with the vehicle 
that he claims to be shortfalls in the standard of repairs.
I have considered the history of this claim. Each time Mr T has raised an issue in the past, 
esure resolved the complaint and paid compensation. Given it has acted fairly towards Mr T 
historically, I have no reason to think it hasnt acted fairly on this occasion or seen evidence 
it has acted unfairly. esure has reviewed the evidence and in my opinion, made a fair 
decision. The latest issues raised by Mr T were over two years after the original repair. I 
think its likely that if these issues were caused by esure, they wouldve been noticed earlier. 
I have reviewed the report and the conclusion. I think esure has been fair to rely on the 
opinion of an independent expert to come to its conclusion, especially as there isnt any 
contradicting evidence from experts. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require esure Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman