The complaint
Mrs C complains Nationwide Building Society didnt follow her instruction to close an account 
over ten years ago. She has recently found out the account was still open and had a debit 
balance which she complains has adversely affected her credit history
What happened
Mrs C opened this account  ending 910  in 2006. In 2009 Mrs C took out an insurance 
policy but changed her mind within the 14-day cooling off period. Mrs C says she contacted 
Nationwide to cancel the direct debit for the insurance company, and to close the account. 
Account statements show a direct debit for an insurance company was returned as unpaid in 
October 2009. As a result a £30 returned payment fee was charged to the account. 
By December 2010 a not trace and no cash withdrawal marker had been placed on the 
account. And it appears as a result of this, no statements were sent to Mrs C. The account 
had also been defaulted. 
In 2019, Mrs C lost her card for another account. It was during discussions about this that 
Mrs C discovered this account was still open. She complained that she opened the account 
solely for paying the insurance and when she cancelled the policy, she also cancelled the 
direct debit and asked for the account to be closed and was unhappy to find that hadnt 
happened; she also hadnt received any statements showing the account was still open. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, it explained that it wouldnt have been able to close 
the account as it had an outstanding balance. And so it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. But as a gesture of goodwill it agreed to write-off the balance and close the account. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs concerns. He didnt uphold her complaint as he wasnt 
persuaded there was insufficient evidence to show Nationwide had done anything wrong  
there was limited information available given the passage of time. He conjectured that 
Nationwide might not have sent statements to Mrs C due to an existing medical condition. 
He also concluded that Mrs C couldnt have been adversely affected in relation to her credit 
history as this would have come to light  but it didnt. 
Mrs C was very unhappy with the outcome and asked for the matter to be reviewed. She 
considers the investigator has been biased in his investigation, as Nationwides side has 
been accepted. She also said statements couldnt have been suppressed as a result her 
medical condition, as she had only been suffering with it for about a year and hadnt notified 
Nationwide. Further she said she didnt have a need to review her credit file until she knew 
the account was still open, however, her score has been lower. In all she considers she 
should be compensated £200 for Nationwides errors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-2137946reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here isnt to comment on the service Mrs C has received from us, or how the 
investigator reached their outcome. My role is to decide the fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. I am impartial and dont act for either party in this making this decision. 
I understand and acknowledge that Mrs C feels very strongly about her complaint. But I can 
only uphold it and make an award if I find that Nationwide did something wrong. 
Mrs C tells us that she opened the account solely to facilitate payment for an insurance 
policy which she cancelled within the cooling off period. But that isnt supported by the 
information Nationwide has been able to provide. System information shows the account 
was opened in 2006, and that Mrs C later added her late husband to the account. It wasnt 
until 2009 that Mrs C took out the insurance policy  and a returned direct debit is shown for 
the insurer in October 2009. So Mrs Cs recollections arent accurate about how events 
unfolded, which is entirely understandable given the passage of time. But it does mean I 
need to treat her testimony with some caution. 
Mrs C says she asked for the direct debit to be cancelled. Because of when this took place, 
over 11 years ago, there is no longer any information available about a request to cancel the 
direct debit. Direct debits take a number of days to operate and the process for taking a 
direct debit from an account usually starts about five days in advance of the payment being 
due. Its not possible to know now whether Mrs C made her request in time. If it wasnt, 
payment collection would have been attempted even if the cancellation request had been 
made and actioned.  
It seems to me there are a number of equally possible reasons as to why the direct debit 
attempted a collection; Mrs C made her cancellation request to Nationwide and it wasnt 
actioned; she has mis-remembered and it was made to the insurer and not actioned; she 
made the request to Nationwide (or her insurer) and was actioned but the request wasnt 
made in time; the request wasnt made at all.  As there are a number of possible reasons to 
explain why the payment collection was attempted, each of them plausible, I dont find that 
Nationwide did anything wrong  there isnt any clear persuasive evidence that it received a 
request in time, that wasnt actioned by it.
As the direct debit was returned unpaid an associated feed was charged. Such charges are 
standard, and it took Mrs Cs account into an unauthorised overdraft. This in turn meant 
further charges applied. The application of such charges is generally considered to be fair 
when applied in accordance with the terms of the account. Because the account had a debit 
balance, that meant any request to close the account wouldnt have been able to proceed 
until the outstanding balance had been repaid.  
Mrs C says she didnt receive any statements or arrears correspondence; particularly the 
default notice. I accept Mrs C may not have received all of her statements. It isnt clear 
entirely why. The records Nationwide has been able to provide suggest that no mail, no 
trace and no withdrawal makers were placed on the account at some point in 2010. Such 
markers are usually added if correspondence is returned as undelivered or gone away, or if 
mail needing a response isnt replied to. And this would explain why Mrs C might not have  
been sent statements from then. But I have seen a copy of a statement from October 2009 
that was correctly addressed to Mrs C (and her late husband). This shows the unpaid direct 
debit to the insurer and the associated fee. So Mrs C ought to have been aware of the 
amount owing then. I understand Mrs C says she didnt receive statements; but the vast 
majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly delivered. I dont find Nationwide at fault if 
something went awry with the delivery of the statement once it left its offices.  It isnt clear why the markers were placed on Mrs Cs account; that information is no longer 
available. Nor is there a copy of the default information Nationwide sent to Mrs C.  This isnt 
evidence of any wrongdoing by Nationwide, it just means that information is no longer 
available. Given how long ago this all took place, and businesses data protection obligations, 
this is neither surprising nor unusual; it is an inevitable consequence of trying to investigate 
matters so long after the event complained of.
But standard practice across the industry when an account is in an unauthorised overdraft is 
to ask for that to be repaid. And if repayments arent forth coming, the next course of action 
is to register a default. I have no reason to doubt Nationwide followed a similar process.  As 
the account was in arrears and wasnt repaid, then information would be recorded on       
Mrs Cs credit file. And as long as that information was a correct reflection of the running of 
the account, then it wouldnt be fair to ask for that to be amended. 
The lack of information in this case means it has been difficult to fairly decide this complaint. 
But in the absence of persuasive evidence of Nationwide doing anything wrong, I dont find I 
can fairly uphold it. I understand Mrs C will be very disappointed by this outcome and I know 
she thinks she should be awarded compensation. But as I dont uphold this complaint, I 
make no award against Nationwide.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman