DRN-3755814
The complaint
Ms B complains that Santander UK Plc registered a late payment marker on her credit file.
What happened
Ms B says she didnt receive her Santander credit card statements for February and March 
2021. She says she called Santander on 21 March 2021 and made the two required 
payments for £154 and £168. Ms B says the late payment charge was refunded but 
discovered in July 2022 that a late payment marker had been registered on her credit file. 
She says that is unfair and is affecting a credit application. Ms B would like it removed. 
Santander says it sent the account statements but its Ms Bs responsibility to make the 
monthly payments. It says it refunded the late payment fee as a gesture of goodwill but says 
it hasnt made a mistake by reporting the accurate account position to the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs).
Ms B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it up to Ms B to make the required payments and that the account information was 
available in other ways if she didnt receive the account statements. The investigator thought 
Ms B could have called Santander to make a payment.
Ms B says the country was in lockdown at the time and would like to know the exact date the 
statements were sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms B will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Ms Bs account terms and conditions which I am satisfied she 
would have agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make 
clear that a monthly payment is required and that a minimum payment must be made even if 
an account statement is not received. They go on to say that a customer must make contact 
with Santander if a statement isnt received. So, Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by charging a late payment fee and reporting the missed payment 
to the CRAs. Im also satisfied that Santander has acted in line with those agreed account 
terms and conditions when it didnt receive a required payment.
I appreciate Ms B says she didnt receive account statements. I have no reason to doubt that 
they were sent and cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the safe delivery of the mail. 
But in any event, I find this was Ms Bs account and her responsibility to manage it. And that 
she was responsible for making the required payments even if she didnt receive an account 
statement.
I have looked carefully at Santanders records and can see that Ms B had opened this 
account some years before the missed payment. I can also see that Ms B used the account 
to make a number of purchases in January to March 2021. So, I think Ms B ought 
reasonably to have known that a required payment was due and that she had used her 
account. And if she didnt receive the account statement, I think the onus was on her to tell 
Santander that as well as make a payment in time.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and has a duty 
to accurately report the position of its customers accounts to the CRAs. I dont think it 
makes any difference what date the account statements were sent or that the country was in 
lockdown, as Ms B could have made a payment regardless, as she later did. It follows that I 
cant fairly order Santander to remove the missed payment from Ms Bs credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman