DRN-3777391
The complaint
Mr B complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage), declining a 
claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property caused by bad weather. 
Advantage use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to 
Advantage includes these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Mr Bs property suffered damage to a dormer 
flat roof at the rear of the property, when the roof was ripped up and folded over on itself. 
This then led to water entering the property. He contacted Advantage to tell them about the 
damage and lodge a claim.
Advantage arranged for a surveyor (M) to visit the property the following month to assess the 
damage. He inspected the damage to the roof, and in his report concluded there wasnt 
evidence of storm damage. He thought at some point a waterproofing solution had been 
applied, but there was now cracking in the solution and pooling of water towards the rear of 
the roof (which he thought showed wear and tear to the roof). The failure of the roof was the 
result of degradation and failure of materials over time.
Based on Ms report, Advantage declined to cover the claim on the grounds that the policy 
excluded damage caused by wear and tear.
 
Unhappy at his claim being declined, Mr B complained to Advantage. But they didnt uphold 
it, confirming their decision to decline the claim in their final response. They agreed with the 
findings of the surveyor, indicating a pre-existing issue with the roof. They noted areas of the 
roof having previous repairs and the presence of visible pooling on the roof (which they said 
could indicate degradation of materials). They concluded the bad weather only highlighted 
existing issues of gradual deterioration of the roof.
Mr B then complained to this service. He thought Advantage had unfairly declined his claim 
and wanted them to accept it. He didnt think there were issues with the roof before the 
storm, which he maintained caused the damage. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Advantage didnt need to take any 
action. She concluded there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and that the 
damage was typical of that to be expected in a storm, including high winds. Looking at the 
evidence, including the photographs of the roof, she thought the roof had ripped due to 
degradation. Had the roof been in good condition, the damage may not have occurred. 
Together with the report from M, she concluded Advantage acted fairly in declining the claim.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said the damage to the roof was caused by the storm and there hadnt been 
any issues with the roof in the past. Six months before the incident a roofer had replaced the 
fascia around the flat roof and confirmed it was in good order. He also provided an estimate 
for repair of the roof from the roofer, which referred to the damage being from the storm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Advantage has acted fairly towards Mr B.
The main element of Mr Bs complaint is that Advantage unfairly declined his claim, on the 
grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent the 
main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the flat roof, with 
signs of previous repairs, cracking and deterioration. So, the high winds only highlighted an 
existing issue. Mr B doesnt agree, saying the damage was caused by the storm. He says 
there were no issues with the roof in the period hed been at the property (over ten years). 
 
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their response as part of our considering the complaint, Advantage 
accept there were storm conditions around Mr Bs property at the time of the incident. The 
date of the incident is also the date Storm Eunice took place. Reports from the weather 
service we use indicate a dry storm at the time of the incident and a peak gust of 83mph. 
So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions present around the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the description of the damage to the roof from Mr B (ripping and 
folding over of the roof covering, which is also apparent from photographs Ive seen) 
indicates damage wed expect from a storm, particularly where there are high winds. So, Ive 
concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore the key issue, where Mr B and Advantage disagree. Ive 
considered both views carefully, together with the reports from Advantages surveyor and the 
views of Mr B and the photographs available. Ive also considered the further information 
and representations made by Advantage when responding to our investigators view. Taking 
all these points into account, Ive concluded Advantage acted fairly in declining Mr Bs claim. 
Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as 
Advantage have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at 
the available information and evidence, I think Advantage have done so in the specific 
circumstances of this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, Advantage refer to gradual deterioration as the reason for declining 
the claim. They also point to the following policy terms, including the following wording under 
Part 1  Useful Information:Are you covered for wear and tear?
Your policy doesnt cover claims arising from just wear and tear or gradual operating 
causes. Its your responsibility to keep your home and its contents in a good 
condition.
The policy goes on to define gradual cause to include: Anything that happens gradually over 
a period of time, including wear and tear.
Advantage also refer to the section on General buildings exclusions which exclude Any loss 
or damage caused by gradual causes and costs that arise from the normal use, 
maintenance and upkeep of your buildings.
Ive considered carefully the views of both Mr B and Advantage, together with the 
information and evidence available. This includes the report from M, photographs of the roof 
as well as the further information from Mr B and the evidence from his roofer. Having done 
so, Im persuaded by Advantages view that the roof had pre-existing issues and was 
showing signs of degradation and wear and tear. In coming to this view, Ive noted Ms report 
and its findings and conclusions. In particular, the following:
Upon inspection of the flat roof it is a traditional felt finish, however there seems to 
have been an attempt of additional waterproofing with a painted on product likely to 
be acrypol. This is also old and cracks are starting to appear. Roof has degraded 
over time and has not had any renewal works or maintenance carried out. Roof has 
likely surpassed its guarantee/lifespan.
Ive also considered what Mr B has said about the roofing work carried out six months before 
the incident, but this appears to be replacing facias  not the roof itself. And while the 
estimate for repair of the roof refers to storm damage, it doesnt provide any detail beyond 
this. And the issue is not that the damage to the roof occurred in the storm, its whether the 
storm was the main or dominant cause of the damage. Based on Ms findings and 
conclusions, Ive concluded it wasnt and that the storm conditions highlighted pre-existing 
issues with the roof.
Based on these conclusions, Ive concluded Advantage have acted reasonably in applying 
the exclusion for gradual cause (wear and tear) to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman