DRN-1608255
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs L. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs L was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs L has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Mrs L signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by ticking a 
box  either to say yes you want the PPI, or no you dont. The yes option, which has 
been ticked, gives permission for the premium to be taken until further notice  so I also 
think it was clear Mrs L could cancel the PPI when she wanted.
This did happen about 25 years ago, so it isnt surprising that she doesnt now remember.
Mrs L says she also wasnt aware of it a year later, when she became a student and would 
otherwise have cancelled the PPI. I think its quite likely someone could tick a box in the 
moment, and then forget about it soon after  so I dont think that is strong enough evidence 
that Mrs L didnt herself agree to the PPI at the time.
Overall, without stronger supporting evidence, I cant fairly conclude that AXA did something 
wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ls 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs L to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs L clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was given to Mrs L. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. (This 
is assuming she was given a real choice, which I accept she says didnt happen.) I say this 
because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
Also its not clear she had many alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit 
account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she did have this, she could have kept 
that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed 
potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a difference to 
whether or not Mrs L took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman