DRN-3643135
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that the process to re-mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) 
took too long and the delay meant that they paid more interest while they waited for this to 
complete.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a tracker mortgage with BOS on which the interest rate had been 
reviewed every two to three years. Mrs W says that she contacted BOS in November 2019 
to request that the rate be revised from 26 February 2020, which was the expiry date of the 
rate they were on at the time. She says that she was told that it was too early to change the 
rate and was advised to call back in January 2020 when the rate could be agreed. Mrs W 
says that she tried to call back repeatedly but was unable to speak to someone. Mr and Mrs 
W eventually discovered that the telephone line had been closed and the department 
responsible for their mortgage had been closed down. They say that they made more than 
50 telephone calls and exchanged over 120 emails in order to arrange the new interest rate. 
Mr and Mrs W eventually managed to get in contact with BOS and they say that they were 
told at this stage that their mortgage was classified as an offshore mortgage and that this 
type of mortgage was being discontinued, which they had not been aware of beforehand. 
However, they say that they were told that the mortgage could be transferred to a standard 
residential mortgage which could be arranged by 26 February. Mr and Mrs W say that at no 
time did BOS advise them that it was discontinuing its offshore mortgages, that it was 
closing the department they had been dealing with or provide any information on how they 
should contact BOS when the department did close. 
Mr and Mrs W say that a representative from BOS assisted them to make a complaint and 
asked for the new interest rate to be backdated to 26 February and they were assured that 
this would be the case. They say that there were a number of delays caused by BOS and 
their legal representative, including sending documentation to an incorrect address, incorrect 
documentation, ignoring online communications and making repeated requests for the same 
information. The new mortgage completed on 19 May 2020, which was almost three months 
after they had been assured this would happen and their monthly mortgage repayment 
changed from £10,312.50 to £8,793.72 at this stage. 
Mr and Mrs W say that the delays resulted in additional charges of £6,415.65, which 
represented the difference in the mortgage interest rate between 26 February and 19 May. 
Mr and Mrs W say that BOS has now passed the debt of £6,415.65 onto its recovery team. 
They have found the matter exceptionally stressful and would like the debt, and any 
reference to it on their financial records, to be removed and an apology from BOS. 
Business Response
BOS says that Mr and Mrs Ws old mortgage was not a standard mortgage but was set up 
as an offshore mortgage which was a specialist scheme aimed at higher value mortgages. 
This was managed in the Isle of Man and handled by a case manager who dealt personally 
with their account. Mr and Mrs W had a tracker product of 2% above the base rate reverting 
to 3.19% above the base rate and this appeared to have been reviewed periodically with Mr 
and Mrs W calling for a review before the end of the set time. BOS made a business 
decision to no longer offer this type of account and all such mortgages were transferred to 
another system and the Isle of Man office closed. BOS says that Mr and Mrs W were sent a 
letter in November 2018 to inform them of this, albeit that there were no other changes to the 
account at this point other than a new account number and it would be dealt with onshore 
and no longer case managed. As a result of this transfer, instructions were added to the 
system by Mr and Mrs Ws previous case manager to ensure that the rate of 2% above base 
rate remained in place until February 2020, at which point it would revert to 3.19% unless 
another rate was agreed. 
BOS says that it hasnt been able to find any evidence of Mrs W contacting it in November 
2019 having searched its systems. The first record it has been able to find of Mrs W 
contacting it following the account moving onshore was 10 February 2020, when she said 
that she was calling as she had received a letter stating that her rate was coming to an end 
and wanted to discuss this. There were three calls on this day. In the initial call, the 
representative was unable to locate Mrs Ws account. Later that day another representative 
of BOS believed that it was Mr and Mrs Ws term which was ending and not the rate so 
transferred her call to the end of term team. A representative from this team agreed to find 
the correct team and called Mrs W back on the same day to put her through to the correct 
person, who explained that there would need to be a more detailed process to discuss the 
rate and that a call back would be arranged for this.
As BOS no longer offered the offshore mortgage, when Mr and Mrs W contacted it to review 
the rate in February 2020 BOS says that it was unable to offer a new rate going forward 
whilst the account remained on the same terms and conditions. Had the mortgage remained 
as it was then the account could have continued to operate until the end of the term under 
the original contract but as Mr and Mrs W wanted to change the rate, this required a new 
contract. It was therefore identified that Mr and Mrs W would be required go through BOSs 
internal process of a specialist re-mortgage to a standard BOS mortgage in order to allow a 
new rate, rather than just a product review. Whilst the previous case manager did attempt to 
arrange a bespoke rate, this was not possible and the case was therefore passed to a 
mortgage advisor to go through the specialist re-mortgage process with the customers. 
Three calls took place between 24 and 26 February 2020 to fully complete this and it was 
agreed that BOS would extend the preferential rate of 2% above base rate whilst the 
application process went through. 
As the mortgage was being moved to a new scheme, the application was treated like Mr and 
Mrs W were new customers and involved a new valuation and conveyancing work, which 
was carried out by an external solicitor. Mr and Mrs Ws application was fully submitted on 
26 February. A valuation was completed on 9 March and, following an underwriter review, a 
mortgage offer issued on 1 April, which is when the conveyancing work commenced. BOS 
says that there were no unreasonable delays in processing the application and that there 
were seven weeks between the issuing of the mortgage offer and the date the mortgage 
started, which was not excessive. 
BOS says that it is regrettable that it was not explained to Mr and Mrs W that timescales 
could not be guaranteed and that the application was never going to be completed within 
their expected timescale. As a result of this, it offered Mr and Mrs W £300 to compensate 
them as it didnt think it had adequately managed their expectations around how long the 
application would take and what was involved; this was subsequently increased to £500.
In relation to the £6,415.65 referred to by Mr and Mrs W, BOS says that this relates to 
arrears due to a missed payment in July 2020 and does not related to an increase in the 
mortgage interest rate whilst Mr and Mrs W were waiting for the re-mortgage. Mrs W 
contacted BOS on 26 February and was unhappy with how long the process would take and 
asked if the existing rate could be extended whilst the process continued. This was agreed 
by BOS and its system was set to continue taking a monthly payment of £10,312.50, with the 
account interest being adjusted each month to ensure that the additional interest did not 
accrue on the account. A letter was sent to Mr and Mrs W to this effect. Mr and Mrs W did not make a higher payment and rebates were completed for March and April 2020 (the old 
account being redeemed on 20 May 2020). Therefore, BOS says that Mr and Mrs W 
suffered no detriment during this period. BOS says that it agreed not to increase the 
payments when the preferential rate was due to end but that there is no evidence to suggest 
that it agreed to decrease the rate.
Investigators View
Our investigator looked into this complaint and explained that the figure of £6,415.65 does 
not relate to additional charges due to the increase in the mortgage interest rate whilst 
waiting for the new mortgage to start. This relates to arrears due to a payment being missed 
in July 2020. The investigator was satisfied that it would not be fair to ask BOS to waive the 
arrears as they had been correctly applied to the account.  
In relation to the period prior to the start of the application, the investigator found that Mr and 
Mrs W were informed about the closure of the Isle of Man office in a letter dated November 
2018 and given a new account number. So when Mrs W called the Isle of Man office to 
review the rate, this number wouldnt have worked as the office had closed long before this. 
Having listened to the calls, she found that Mrs W had not mentioned during these that she 
had called in November 2019 but it was identified when she called on 10 February that Mr 
and Mrs W would need to go through a specialist re-mortgage rather than just a product 
review. The investigator agreed that BOS should have set Mr and Mrs Ws expectations 
accurately and clearly in terms of how long this process would take. However, she was 
satisfied that the compensation of £500 offered by BOS was sufficient to compensate for the 
distress suffered during this process.
Regarding the extension of the existing rate, the investigator found that it wasnt possible for 
BOS to apply the new rate (with a monthly repayment of £8,793.72) from February 2020 as 
the re-mortgage wasnt complete at this stage. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair to say BOS 
should have applied this.  BOS extending the existing rate ensured that Mr and Mrs W did 
not suffer any financial detriment as they continued to pay what they had done until the re-
mortgage was complete. 
In relation to delays in processing the re-mortgage, our investigator was satisfied that the 
time taken between the application being submitted on 26 February and the completion date 
of 19 May was reasonable and that BOS wasnt responsible for any unnecessary delays 
during this period. 
Mr and Mrs W disagree with this and so the case has come to me to make a decision. They 
say that they had a 20-year mortgage with an interest rate tracker review every two years 
and that they had ten years remaining, therefore they had no need to re-mortgage and 
change to a standard BOS account. Mr and Mrs W says that they didnt request that BOS 
extend the existing rate, they requested that the new rate be applied from 26 February and 
were assured that this would be the case by the agent. They maintain that calls were made 
in late 2019 and that they were not notified that the office was closing. 
Following a further review, our investigator found that, although BOS had applied manual 
adjustments to the interest applied in March and April 2020, it had not done so between 1 
and 20 May 2020 immediately prior to the re-mortgage completing. The rate which had been 
applied over these dates was the reversionary rate of 3.19% above base rate instead of the 
preferential rate of 2% above base rate. He therefore recommended that BOS should correct 
the account as if the lower rate had been applied during that period. BOS has agreed to do 
this. Mr and Mrs W were invited to comment further on this aspect but no further response 
was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigators 
view for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained my reasons further below.
Initially, I would like to deal with the point that Mr and Mrs W have made that they had no 
need to re-mortgage and change to a standard BOS account as they had ten years 
remaining on their term. 
I have seen a copy of correspondence showing that the mortgage was provided by BOS in 
Isle of Man in 2012 with the term to expire in June 2030. A preferential rate was offered in 
2014 to reduce the margin to 2% over base rate from 3.19% over base rate for a period of 
three years. This was reviewed in March 2017 and it was agreed that the preferential rate 
would continue for a further three years. I have seen a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs W 
on 1 February 2017 indicating that the preferential rate would be extended and that from 6 
March 2020 the variable rate would revert to 3.19% for the remaining mortgage term. 
In light of the above, I agree that Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage term didnt expire until 2030. 
However, the preferential rate which they were on of 2% above base rate did expire in March 
2020. Although Mr and Mrs W had previously been able to change their rate every two years 
with the offshore mortgage, changes had been made and this was no longer an option 
available going forward. Therefore, by 2020 the only way they could obtain a new rate was 
to re-mortgage to a standard BOS account. It is a matter for BOS about what products it will 
offer and it is entitled to make a business decision to withdraw the offshore mortgage 
scheme. So Mr and Mrs W could have chosen not to re-mortgage but they would have 
remained on the contractual rate of 3.19% above base rate had they chosen to do so. 
Period Before Application
Mr and Mrs W have said in their complaint to BOS that the reference number for their 
mortgage ended 8796 and that they contacted BOS on the regular telephone number on the 
banks correspondence in November 2019 to ask if they could obtain a new tracker. They 
have said that they were told to call back at the end of January 2020 to arrange this prior to 
the expiry date of their existing tracker rate on 26 February. Mr and Mrs W say that they tried 
to do this but were not told that the number had been discontinued and had to call various 
numbers, none of which had any record of their mortgage reference number. 
I have seen a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs W in November 2018 informing them that 
their mortgage had transferred to the UK as of 29 October as planned. This set out that BOS 
had recently sent their new payment details and mortgage account number for them to use 
when paying their mortgage and that they should set up their new payment if they had not 
yet done so. The letter also said that BOS had written to Mr and Mrs W in September 
explaining that the way it calculated interest would change. It enclosed their new account 
number (ending 7104) and payment details again and gave them a number to call if they had 
any questions. 
Mr and Mrs W have said that they did not realise their account had changed when trying to 
contact BOS in January 2020 and that a number of branches didnt recognise their account 
number. However, I am satisfied that they were made aware around November 2018 that 
their mortgage had changed following the previous review of the interest rate, that they were 
provided with the new account number at this time and that they were given a new telephone 
number to call if they had any questions about their account.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs W and BOS on 10 February 2020 in which she 
provides her new account number. In these calls no mention is made of earlier calls in 2019 
or being told to call back in January. Mrs W says that she is calling in response to a letter 
received about her rate ending which was dated 4 February. Although the adviser was 
unable to locate the mortgage on the initial call, it was identified later on the same day that 
she would need to go through a specialist re-mortgage and Mrs W was told that someone would call back within 24 hours to arrange an appointment for this. So Im satisfied that there 
was not a significant delay here. But I think BOS could have made it clearer at this stage 
what the application process would involve and better managed expectations as to how long 
this might take. BOS has offered Mr and Mrs W £500 to compensate them for this and I think 
this is reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also listened to the call which took place on 24 February during which Mrs W was 
informed that the adviser didnt think the new mortgage would be in place by March and 
gave further details about the process. However, during this call BOS advised that it would 
extend the interest rate Mr and Mrs W were currently on. I will consider this in more detail 
later in my decision but mention it here as it shows that further information was provided two 
weeks after the initial call as to timescales and the extension of the interest rate meant that 
any delay would not result in Mr and Mrs W paying more in any event. 
Time taken for new mortgage to complete 
Mr and Mrs W say that there were a number of delays caused by BOS and their legal 
representative, including sending documentation to an incorrect address, incorrect 
documentation, ignoring online communications and making repeated requests for the same 
information. 
I have considered the timeline and can see that the application was submitted on 26 
February and the offer was produced around five weeks later, on 1 April. The mortgage 
completed on 19 May, so seven weeks after the offer was made. 
I have looked at the timeline of events provided by BOSs conveyancer. Although there 
appears to have been an issue with an incorrect address at the beginning of the process, I 
cant see that this caused a considerable delay or any knock on effect on progressing the re-
mortgage.
BOS has said that it is normal to take six weeks to complete the necessary checks from the 
date of offer. I understand that Mr and Mrs W saw this as a simple rate change, but for the 
reasons set out above the application had to be processed as a re-mortgage. Having looked 
at BOSs conveyancers timeline I am satisfied that the application and re-mortgage process 
progressed in reasonable time and was not excessive. 
In any event, BOS agreed to keep Mr and Mrs W on the same rate until the re-mortgage 
completed so I dont think they have lost out as a result of the time taken for the re-mortgage 
to complete. Likewise, I consider that the compensation of £500 offered by BOS is 
reasonable to cover the issues raised by Mr and Mrs W in this regard.
Interest rate whilst application was progressing
Mr and Mrs W say that, despite BOSs assurances that the new rate of interest would be 
applied from 26 February 2020, this was not done. 
I have listened to the call which took place on 24 February during which Mrs W was informed 
that the adviser didnt think the new mortgage would be in place by March. The advisor says 
that she would therefore contact the person looking after the account and ask them to apply 
a manual extension on the interest rate Mr and Mrs W had at the time which looked to have 
already been agreed. Mrs W asked for clarification as to whether this meant that the rate 
they were paying at the moment would be extended until the new mortgage was approved 
and the advisor confirmed that this was correct. The advisor said that the rate of 2.75% 
would be kept in place temporarily until the new rate was put in place and Mrs W agreed with 
this. 
I have also listened to the call which took place between BOS and Mrs W on 26 February. 
Following the completion of the application question, the advisor confirmed that the existing 
rate would be extended on to March and that, if the re-mortgage wasnt completed by then, it 
would be extended further.Having listened to the calls, I am satisfied that it was agreed that the preferential rate of 2% 
above base rate (which was 0.75% at the time) would be extended until the re-mortgage was 
completed. It was not agreed that the rate of interest for the re-mortgage would be applied 
retrospectively. I think this was fair as it meant that Mr and Mrs W would not revert back to 
the higher contractual rate they should have been on after the preferential rate expired. And 
Mrs W agreed with this approach over the phone at the time the re-mortgage application was 
completed. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect BOS to backdate the new rate as 
the re-mortgage hadnt completed by that stage. 
I have gone on to consider whether the agreed rate (2% above base rate) was in fact 
extended as it should have been until the re-mortgage was complete. I have noted that, over 
the period the re-mortgage was being processed, base rate was reduced from 0.75% to 
0.25% on 11 March 2020 and then reduced further to 0.1% on 19 March 2020. BOS has 
advised that these changes would take effect from the first of the following month.
BOS has said that its system does not allow it to extend an interest rate so it applied a 
manual interest rebate to the account in order to adjust the interest charged. The system 
was therefore set to continue taking a monthly payment of £10,312.50, with the account 
interest being adjusted each month. Where the rebate was applied, this meant the monthly 
payment was higher than the net interest charged during the month and the payment 
resulted in a capital reduction. BOS says that an interest rebate was provided in March and 
April 2020 which covered the interest difference of 1.19% between the preferential rate 
applicable until February 2020 (2% above base rate) and the reversionary rate applicable 
from March 2020 (3.19% above base rate).
I can see from the account statements that Mr and Mrs W made repayments of £10,312.50 
in March and April 2020, which was the same as the February payment. I can also see from 
the internal notes that interest rebates were made on the old mortgage account in respect of 
the payments for March 2020 (based on a rate of 2.75%) and April 2020 (based on a rate of 
2.1%) to reflect this. So, whilst Mr and Mrs Ws repayment amounts remained the same in 
March and April, I am satisfied that the rebates of interest were applied to the mortgage 
account to reduce the capital. I am satisfied that this was in accordance with the agreement 
to extend the preferential rate.
As the old mortgage was redeemed on 20 May 2020, there was no repayment made in May. 
However, the additional days since the last repayment were taken into account when 
calculating interest on the redemption statement. BOS has now confirmed that there was no 
interest rebate in May 2020 so the interest charged to the old mortgage account between 1 
May and 20 May was calculated at 3.29%. It therefore agrees that the interest charge on the 
redemption statement should be recalculated for that period as no adjustment was provided.
I am therefore satisfied that the interest for the period between 1 May and 20 May 2020 
should be recalculated based on an interest rate of 2.1%, in order to adhere to the 
agreement made by BOS to extend the preferential rate until the re-mortgage was 
completed. 
The account should then be corrected as if the lower rate had been applied. I note that 
surplus funds from the re-mortgage were credited to the new mortgage on 22 May 2020, as 
the amount being borrowed on the new mortgage was more than the amount needed to 
redeem the debt on the old mortgage. Had the redemption statement been calculated 
correctly, this would have meant that a larger amount would have been credited to the new 
mortgage account following completion. This in turn would have meant that the arrears on 
the account were less when Mr and Mrs W missed the June and July repayments, which I 
will discuss further below.
Outstanding charge of £6,415.65Mr and Mrs W say that the arrears of £6,415.65 is due to additional charges representing the 
difference in the mortgage interest rate between 26 February and 19 May, which they say 
has been incurred due to delays. 
BOS says that the funds for the new mortgage were released on 19 May. As is usual, the 
first payment for this was due the following month and was higher than usual as it included 
the interest from when the account was taken out to the end of that month along with the 
interest for the whole of the following month. Mr and Mrs Ws completion letter sets out that 
the first payment of £12,542.68 would be taken on 29 June 2020. However, a payment of 
£14,920.75 was made on 22 May, which was credited from BOSs solicitors as it was surplus 
funds from the re-mortgage, as the amount being borrowed was only the amount needed to 
redeem the debt on the old mortgage with the remaining amount being issued back to the 
bank. The payment due on 29 June bounced, but as the extra payment had been credited to 
the mortgage account in May, this did not take the account into arrears. 
As a result of this, the direct debit was cancelled by the funding bank, which BOS says often 
occurs after a payment has bounced to prevent the bank account going into unauthorised 
overdraft. A new direct debit mandate was sent to Mr and Mrs W, following a call from them 
on 7 July. However, the mortgage payment of £8,793.72 was also not received as expected 
on 28 July, which meant that the account was now in arrears. Due to the extra payment on 
22 May, this was not by as much as the full missed payment and amounted to £6,415.65. 
So, by the end of July, Mr and Mrs W should have paid £21,336.40 in monthly payments 
towards their new mortgage (£12,542.68 for the June payment and £8,793.72 for the July 
payment) but neither of these scheduled payments had been made. However, a payment 
had been made in May of £14,920.75  before any contractual payment was due  which 
meant that the arrears as at the end of July stood at £6,415.65.
In light of the above, I am satisfied that this figure does not relate to additional charges and 
that it has not been added on to their account incorrectly. It is as a result of the two missed 
mortgage payments in June and July 2020.
However, as set out above, the agreed extension of the preferential interest rate was not 
applied in the month of May 2020. Had this been applied, then the credit made to the new 
account on 22 May would have been larger, and consequently the arrears would have been 
less. Once the account has been corrected to reflect this, the account will likely still be in 
arrears and it will be for Mr and Mrs W to make arrangements with BOS to pay this. 
BOS says that any arrears less than one months payment are not reported to credit 
reference agencies but that it has sent letters to Mr and Mrs W and called them with the aim 
of setting up a payment plan. So I am satisfied that no arrears have been reported to credit 
reference agencies. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint and require BOS to:
Calculate for the old mortgage the difference between the amount of interest which 
was paid by Mr and Mrs W for the month of May 2020 until completion and what 
would have been paid if the lower interest rate of 2.1% had been applied. Then apply 
the difference to the new mortgage and rework this as if the additional funds had 
been credited on 22 May 2020. 
Pay Mr and Mrs W £500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience (if it has not 
already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland 
plc to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman