DRN-4081714
The complaint
Miss P complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. She wants her car repaired and compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
What happened
Miss P notified Admiral about an incident involving another driver. She wasnt sure if she 
wanted to claim on her policy at that point. But Admiral told her it would still need to record 
the incident in case the other driver made a claim. Admiral then sent Miss P an email stating 
incorrectly that her No Claims Discount (NCD) would be unaffected. The agent realised the 
error and called Miss P to correct this. 
Miss P later made a claim, and her car was deemed to be beyond economical repair. Miss P 
cancelled the claim when Admiral told her it would collect the cars salvage and cancel her 
policy. Admiral decided to split liability based on dashcam footage. But Miss P thought she 
had been given incorrect information and limited guidance and she thought the liability 
decision had been rushed. She complained to Admiral about this and the anxiety it had 
caused.
Admiral agreed it had made mistakes. It thought it should have given clearer information 
about the investigation and effect of the claim on Miss Ps NCD. It thought its call waits had 
caused delays and poor communication. And it thought it could have done more to support 
Miss P when she made a claim, and when it made its liability decision. Admiral paid Miss P 
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But Miss P remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably compensated Miss P for the impact of its errors. And he thought its liability 
decision was fair and reasonable and made after reasonably considering the evidence and 
in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
Miss P replied that she thought Admiral hadnt treated her justly. She thought it had paid her 
insufficient compensation. She asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the accident and its effect on Miss P. I can understand that it must 
have been a shocking experience. And I can understand that she has found the experience 
of the claim stressful. 
Miss P was unhappy as she thought Admiral rushed its decision about liability for the 
accident. I can see that it made its decision in a few hours. The investigator has already 
explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is 
the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate 
how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Miss P the same as 
someone else in her position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss P to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss P has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision. The evidence Admiral had to consider was the 
dashcam footage that Miss P had obtained from the other drivers company and 
photographs she had provided of damage to her car. And it considered Miss Ps obligations 
under the Highway Code. There were no independent witnesses. 
From the footage, Admiral thought both vehicles had veered towards each other before they 
collided. And it thought Miss P was obliged to make allowance for the larger vehicle. So 
Admiral decided that the best possible outcome would be a split liability decision. 
Im satisfied that was reasonable in the circumstances. Admiral had warned Miss P that the 
dashcam footage would be important, and I think it reasonably made its decision based on it. 
So, although the decision may appear to be rushed, I dont think Admiral did anything wrong 
in this. 
Admiral then made the split liability offer to the other drivers insurer, but from what I can 
see, it didnt receive a reply. As Miss P later withdrew her own claim for repairs, then Admiral 
had no outlay to recover. So the claim could eventually be closed with no effect on Miss Ps 
NCD. 
Admiral had emailed Miss P when she notified it of the accident that this wouldnt affect her 
NCD. But this was then incorrect. However, its agent noticed this and promptly called Miss P 
to correct the error before she read the email. So I think this error didnt cause Miss P any 
harm. 
When Miss P decided to make a claim, Admiral assessed her car and told her that it would 
be beyond economical repair. I think Admiral had reasonably explained the various options 
Miss P had and their consequences when she first notified it. But the result was that Admiral 
then sent Miss P an email saying that its agent would collect her car for salvage. And, in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions, her policy would be cancelled.
Miss P needed to retain her car and it had to be insured. But I cant say Admiral did anything 
wrong in declaring it a total loss based on the likely repair costs. And Admiral is entitled, in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions, to decide how to settle a claim. So I cant say 
that it should repair the car. But I can understand this must have been a shock for Miss P, 
and I think Admiral later acknowledged this. 
Miss P then decided to withdraw her claim. She said she felt forced to do this. But I cant see 
that Admiral compelled her. Im satisfied that it acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping 
with the policys terms and conditions. The car passed its MOT, and Admiral sent Miss P a 
letter stating that the claim was closed, her car wouldnt be collected, and her policy wouldnt 
be cancelled. I think that was fair and reasonable. Admiral agreed that it had made errors in the handling of Miss Ps claim. Miss P had told it of 
the effect of the accident on her, but it said it hadnt sufficiently taken this into account in its 
correspondence with her. It said its communications had caused delays. Admiral paid Miss P 
£250 compensation for the impact these errors had. Im satisfied thats in keeping with our 
published guidance, so I think thats fair and reasonable. And I dont require Admiral to pay 
Miss P any further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman