DRN-2753675
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy a claim made under her gadget and mobile phone insurance policy has
been declined by Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant).
What happened
In August 2019 Miss E went to the beach with friends and family. They collectively put all
their bags together in one place, and within Miss Es bag were two mobile phones. When
they went to leave the beach, Miss E and some other members of the group discovered their
bags were missing.
Miss E contacted Assurant to claim for the theft of her mobile phones which were in her bag.
Assurant declined the claim. They said Miss E hadnt taken care of her phones, they also
said shed left them unattended, and this had resulted in them being stolen.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said that Assurant hadnt
asked enough questions when discussing the theft with Miss E to be able to say she hadnt
taken care, or to conclude that they were unattended when they were stolen. So, he said
Assurant should reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms.
Assurant didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached the same outcome as our investigator, but there were some additional reasons. So 
issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on what I was 
minded to conclude, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, but for some 
additional reasons. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give both parties an 
opportunity to respond, before I reach my final decision.
Ive looked at the policy terms Assurant has relied on to decline the claim. These say:
We know how important your device is to you and we expect that you will take care 
of it. If you dont take care of your device we may not pay your claim.
Taking care of your device means-
Not knowingly leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or
damaged. Just think, would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your device somewhere then we expect you to lock it 
away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must 
leave it with someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
Making reasonable enquiries to find your device if you lost it.
If you knowingly leave your device where others can see it but you cannot, and your 
device is then lost or stolen, we may not pay your claim.
Assurant says Miss E hasnt taken care of her devices, and she left them unattended. 
But Im not minded to agree Assurant has shown that, or that its fair or reasonable to 
decline the claim on that basis. Ill explain why.
Miss E initially put her mobile phones into a bag within another bag, and then that 
bag with other bags from the group she was with. So, the mobile phones were 
actually concealed out of sight as was required by the policy, as they were inside a 
bag. And given Miss E was on a beach, as they couldnt be locked away, in her bag 
amongst other bags was potentially a safe place. It wasnt as if her devices were left 
out in the open for anyone to see. And I dont think by placing them in a bag, with 
other bags, Miss E left her device somewhere it was likely to be stolen.
Assurant has also said that in their view the bag was unattended. And whilst thats 
not specifically a term in the policy, if the bag was unattended, there might be an 
argument that care hadnt been taken. So, Ive also considered whether Assurant has 
reasonably shown Miss E left the devices or bag unattended as they said, but I dont 
think they have.
Both our investigator and Assurant debated whether the bag was unattended at the 
time of the loss. Assurant has partly relied on the information Miss E gave in a 
telephone conversation. And they also said it mustve been unattended because it 
was taken and wasnt noticed until later in the day. Our investigator said just because 
it was taken doesnt automatically mean it was unattended, and gave some examples 
such as a pick pocket taking items from on a person.
Miss E has explained to this service that the bags were always immediately in the 
vicinity of her and the group. Miss E has also explained that due to her personal 
circumstances at the time, she wasnt able to freely move around like others from the 
group. And Miss E said that because they were at the beach, they didnt leave them 
unattended at any time.
Ive also listened to the call recording between Assurant and Miss E after she made 
the claim. Only limited questions were asked by Assurant, and the call ended before 
Assurant said the claim was declined or gave the reasons for doing so. But the 
information provided by Miss E in this call wasnt clear or conclusive in demonstrating 
that Miss E said her bag was unattended, as Assurant have suggested. Instead it 
seems that Assurant has focussed simply on the fact that it was stolen without being 
noticed, and concluded it mustve been unattended, and therefore that Miss E hasnt 
taken care of her device as the policy requires.But based on Miss Es description of what happened, and the call she had with 
Assurant, I dont think its been shown that Miss E left her bag unattended, or that 
she didnt take care of her devices as required by the policy. As I said, the policy 
says not to knowingly leave a device somewhere where it is likely to be stolen, and I 
dont think Miss E did that. And the policy also says that if they cant be locked away, 
then they should be concealed out of sight in a safe place, and I think they were. And 
I dont think Assurant has demonstrated the bag was left unattended either, or that by 
extension Miss E hasnt taken care of her devices.
So unless the responses to my provisional decision change anything, Im minded to 
say that its not fair or reasonable for Assurant to decline the claim for the reasons 
theyve given and they need to consider Miss Es claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Assurant to consider Miss Es claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss E responded to my provisional and accepted it. She said she didnt have anything 
further to add in response.
Assurant responded but they didnt agree. They said they still feel their decision to decline 
the claim was correct. They said they dont believe leaving a bag on a beach is a safe place 
as others would have access to the bag. And they said you wouldnt leave the equivalent 
monetary value of the phones alone on the beach. 
Whilst Assurant accepted the phones were concealed in a bag, they dont think the beach 
was a safe place to leave it. They said they werent sure how Miss E got to the beach but if 
by car, then she could have left them in the car.
Assurant also said they accept when being pick-pocketed you wouldnt see the thief, but this 
doesnt have any relevance to Miss Es claim and the fact that it happened, must mean they 
were left unattended at some point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision and I havent 
changed my mind.
Assurant has focussed on their view that the bag was left unattended. But for the same 
reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision, I dont think its been shown that it 
was unattended. Miss E has explained the bags were always in the immediate vicinity and 
she wasnt able to freely move around, and that they werent left unattended at any time.As I outlined in my provisional decision, the policy says not to leave a device somewhere it is 
likely to be stolen, and I dont think Miss E did that. I dont agree with Assurant that the bag 
or devices were left or that its been demonstrated that they were unattended. I dont think 
Miss E has acted recklessly, or that she recognised a risk and didnt take adequate 
measures. As they couldnt be locked away as Miss E was on a beach, she concealed them 
out of sight in a bag, which is what the policy requires, and I think that was reasonable. And I 
dont think they were then left unattended as Ive outlined above. So I dont think Miss E has 
failed to take care of her devices as required by the policy.
I also note Assurant has said if Miss E had travelled by car then she possibly could have left 
the devices in the car. But I dont think Miss E has acted recklessly or unreasonably in the 
actions she took for the reasons Ive explained above.
So with the above and my provisional decision in mind, I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
Assurant to decline the claim for the reasons theyve given, so they need to consider 
Miss Es claim in line with remaining policy terms.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to consider Miss Es claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman