DRN-3566744
The complaint
Mr C complains about the delays he encountered with a conveyancer which was on the 
panel of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) when he was 
completing his remortgage. Mr C would like an apology, acceptance of responsibility and an 
award of £250.
What happened
Mr C was remortgaging and used the BM remortgage service which meant that a 
conveyancer was appointed from the banks panel and the legal costs for the transaction 
were discounted. Mr C says that the conveyancer had to make one enquiry about notice 
fees which they didnt complete and werent truthful in what they told Mr C about the parties 
and the times that they sent the enquiry to. It was only after Mr C complained and because 
of BMs close supervision did they complete the enquiry waiting one month and causing Mr 
C distress and inconvenience.
BM says that Mr C used its remortgage service which is an incentive to cover basic legal 
costs. BM has an agreement with a number of solicitors including the one that Mr C used to 
provide a discounted legal service to mortgage applicants. It says that by choosing the 
remortgage service Mr C accepted that the bank would instruct solicitors on his behalf and 
that he then became a client of the solicitors so that any complaint should be directed to that 
firm. 
Our investigators view was that the solicitors are a separate organisation than the bank and 
that any complaints about their service should be brought to the firm or the legal 
ombudsman but she did not believe that BM was responsible for any delay. Mr C disagreed 
saying in summary that BM were his contracted service provider and had a duty of care 
regarding their contracted suppliers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about the problems Mr C encountered in the provision of a legal service by 
a firm of solicitors engaged in the re-mortgage of Mr Cs property to BM. I should say that I 
have read the file and understand Mr Cs frustration with the process that he went through 
but I have to decide whether BM was at fault for that. 
Mr C says that his contract for service including conveyancing was with BM and the solicitors 
have said in their documentation that they were acting for BM. My understanding of these 
transactions is that the solicitors act for both parties in a mortgage both the borrower and the 
lender. They have duties to both. Although BM has suggested to Mr C that he makes a 
complaint to the solicitor I notice that Mr C doesnt appear to have done that yet. I appreciate 
that the documentation that Mr C has shown to us clearly says that the client is BM. But this 
may be an avenue that he could pursue.
But if I assume that BM has a responsibility what is the extent of that? BM is using an 
outside contractor for legal services. Lenders will use outside contractors such as 
valuers.and lawyers. These are not in-house so we wouldnt expect the lender to be 
responsible for their actions as the lenders are neither lawyers nor valuers. But we would 
expect the lender to use a suitably qualified third-party contractor competent to perform the 
task. BM seems to have instructed a firm of solicitors, professionally qualified described on 
their website as award winning and experts in property law. So, in my view BM has fulfilled 
its duty of care that Mr C refers to by choosing a professional qualified third-party contractor 
competent to perform the task.   
If there are delays caused by the solicitor that is the solicitors fault not that of BM. BM isnt 
doing the conveyancing but contracting it out to a third party that objectively should be able 
to do a competent professional job being qualified to do so. If the conveyancer in a particular 
transaction falls below that standard thats not the fault of BM. I note that BM gave Mr C 
some assistance in bringing the remortgage to a conclusion but for the reasons set out 
above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman