DRN-3140780
The complaint
In summary, Mr R complains that the advice provided by Portal Financial Services LLP to 
transfer a personal pension into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) was unsuitable.
In bringing his complaint, Mr R is represented by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
In 2012 Mr R met with Portal to discuss his pension. From the available information it 
appears that at the time of the advice Portal recorded that:
He had an income of approximately £18,000 a year.
He was aged 53.
Had approximately £1,000 in savings.
His intended retirement age was 65 with no need for Tax Free Cash until 65.
In respect of his objectives Portal said:
He was looking for potentially higher investment performance than lower charges. 
He was looking for greater investment fund choice
In respect of Mr Rs attitude to investment risk, Portal referred to answers it said Mr R gave 
in his attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire. In summary it said:
Mr R agreed that he generally looked for safer investments, even if that meant lower 
returns.
Mr R disagreed that it usually took him a long time to make up his mind in investment 
matters.
Mr R agreed that he associated the word risk with the idea of opportunity.
Mr R agreed that he preferred bank deposits to riskier investments.
Mr R agreed that he had had little experience of stocks and shares.
Mr R disagreed that he tended to be anxious about the investment decisions he had 
made.
His responses from the ATR questionnaire would have informed Portal that his 
overall attitude to risk outcome was that of Balanced investor and that outcome 
would have been the basis on which his recommendation was made.
Mr Rs personal pension, which was transferred into the SIPP, was taken out in 2005. 
Shortly prior to the transfer in 2012, it appears that the pension was invested in a 
combination of property, 50/50 Cautious Collective and a Blackrock Cautious fund. The 
funds had a 1% annual management charge. 
Portal advised Mr R to transfer his personal pension into a SIPP. The initial adviser charge 
was 5% of the value of the funds invested. There was an ongoing adviser charge of 1% a 
year. Transact charged 0.5% of the fund as a commission charge on an annual basis. 
In 2015 Mr R complained to Portal. It wrote to Mr R explaining why it didnt think the advice it 
provided to him had been unsuitable. 
In July 2020, Mr Rs CMC raised the complaint with Portal. It decided that the complaint 
wasnt one that could be considered as it believed it had addressed the complaint back in 
2015. As Mr R hadnt pursued the complaint with our service, Portal believed the complaint 
hadnt been referred to our service in time. 
When Mr Rs CMC referred the complaint to our service, Portal told our investigator it 
believed the complaint had been made outside the six-month referral deadline.  It also said it 
didnt think Mr Rs CMC was regulated to bring complaints. 
Our investigator explained why they believed the complaint was one our service could 
consider. Portal remained of the view that the complaint couldnt be considered by our 
service. So, the case was reviewed by one of my ombudsman colleagues. They decided 
that the case was one our service could consider.  And they explained in summary in a 
provisional jurisdiction decision, why they believed Portals response to Mr R in 2015 did not 
meet the requirements of a final response. 
They also explained that they believed the complaint made in 2015 also covered the 
suitability of the advice that Portal gave to Mr R, including whether transferring the pension 
was appropriate for him. They concluded that Mr R complained about those issues in 2015, 
which was within six years of the original event complained about - the 2012 advice. The 
ombudsman concluded the letter Portal sent Mr R didnt start the countdown for the six-
month deadline for complaining to our service. So, the complaint wasnt out of time. The 
ombudsman invited the parties to make any final points if they wanted before formalising 
their decision. A final jurisdiction decision was issued on 22 July 2021.
Our investigator then considered the merits of Mr Rs complaint. They explained why they 
were upholding the complaint. In summary, based on the available information and taking 
into account the initial and ongoing fees, the SIPP recommended was more expensive than 
Mr Rs existing pension plan. Also, they thought Mr Rs existing pension plan was 
reasonable for his circumstances and that the switch wasnt in his best interests. 
In relation to the investments recommended, the investigator said Portal had a responsibility 
to assess the underlying investments. It recommended investing a large proportion of the 
proceeds of transfer into unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) werent 
consistent with Mr Rs ATR or suitable for his wider circumstances and capacity for loss. 
They didnt think Mr R was willing to take substantial financial risks or had any capacity for 
loss. They also didnt think that an assessment had been carried out to see if Mr R fell within 
one of the PCIS or COBS exemptions in relation to the promotion of UCIS investments. They 
thought Mr R was a cautious investor with no investment experience of UCIS and that the 
portfolio of UCIS Portal recommended wasnt suitable for Mr R. 
In response to the merits view, Portal set out two principle concerns. In summary:
1) It refuted the CMCs authorisation and permission to submit complaints.
2) It didnt accept the assessment.It went onto explain why it didnt accept the CMCs authority to act on behalf of Mr R, or 
recognise them as an authorised body regarding complaints submitted to our service. 
In relation to the investigators assessment, it argued that the complaint had been made out 
of time, as the complaint had been made six years from the point of advice and three years 
from when he ought reasonably to have known he had cause for complaint.  And it explained 
in relation to the three-year time limit, how it considered Mr R would reasonably have had 
cause for concern.
The investigator replied explaining again why they considered the complaint had been made 
in time and that the ombudsman had given the same answer in their jurisdiction decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMCs authority to submit Mrs Hs complaint
Portal doesnt think the CMC who represents Mr R, is authorised to represent him by the 
FCA. In the context of the complaint made on Mr Rs behalf, Portal could still have 
communicated with him directly.  
Our service has written to Portal explaining why we believe Mr Rs CMC is able to represent 
complainants such as Mr R  and that our service expects it to cooperate with us in respect 
of complaints brought to us by this CMC. This issue doesnt have any bearing on the merits 
of Mr Rs complaint, so I dont intend to say anything further on this point. 
Our jurisdiction to consider the complaint
In its response to the investigators view, Portal also explained again why it believed the 
complaint had been made out of time. As Ive summarised above, one of my ombudsman 
colleagues issued a jurisdiction decision addressing whether the complaint had been made 
in time. They decided that it had been made in time, so I dont intend to make any further 
comment on the issue of jurisdiction. 
Suitability of the advice
There is limited information available from the time of the advice. Disappointingly Portal 
didnt provide its business file as requested by our service. But it has provided some 
information from the time of the advice, in its response to Mr R from 2015. Information 
about the SIPP Mr R was advised to transfer into, has been obtained from the SIPP 
provider. And information about the policy transferred into the SIPP was also obtained 
from that pension provider. So, Im satisfied I have sufficient information to be able to 
consider the suitability of the recommendation made to Mr R. 
In 2008, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), the regulator at that time; issued a report 
entitled Quality of advice on pension switching. The report summarised the findings of the 
regulators thematic review of pension switching advice. It also gave examples of poor, 
compliant and good, practices it found regarding the quality of advice given since pensions 
A-day. It mentioned several examples of what it thought could constitute unsuitable advice. 
And Ive set out some of those examples below. 
 A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different pension schemes, but where 
the extra cost was not explained or justified to the customer.  A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder pension 
would have met the customers needs. 
 A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment flexibility, 
but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but there was no 
evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown 
option, but there was no evidence that this option was needed). 
And having thought about what the regulator said in the report, Im not satisfied from 
everything Ive seen in this case, that there was any need for Mr R to incur the additional 
costs, or for him to be exposed to the increased investment risk which resulted from the 
advice Portal gave Mr R; to transfer his pension into the SIPP. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
At the time of the advice, Portal recorded that Mr R had an income of approximately £18,000 
a year and approximately £1,000 in savings. He was aged 53 and intended to retire at 65.  
When Mr R met with Portal, the pension policy he was advised to transfer, was invested 
about 85% in cautious funds and approximately 15% in property funds. This portfolio of 
funds doesnt suggest to me that he was someone who wanted to take any significant risk 
with his pension. 
Portal recommended that Mr R invest a significant proportion of the monies transferred 
from his existing pension into UCIS funds. These type of investment funds were 
considered by the FSA to have a higher risk than many collective investment funds. And 
it provided guidance as to who they should be marketed to. From what Ive seen of Mr 
Rs circumstances, Im satisfied that he didnt fall into the categories of investor who 
UCIS could be promoted to. Considering the specialised nature of the funds, I think they 
fell within the restrictions set out in COBS.
Portal has pointed to the ATR questionnaire Mr R completed and the answers he gave. The 
answers he gave to the ATR questionnaire that Portal has referred to, in my view indicate 
that he didnt want to take any significant risk with his pension investments. And, his answers 
dont suggest to me that he had an ATR which was in line with the requisite risk profile for 
the UCIS investments that Portal was recommending. 
Portal was advising Mr R, and it had a duty to act fairly and professionally in accordance with 
his best interests. It should in my view, have carried out an objective assessment of his ATR. 
And Im not satisfied from what Ive seen that it did that.
So, considering his overall financial circumstances, Im not satisfied that the assessment of 
his ATR was an objective appraisal of the level of investment risk that Mr R was prepared to 
take with his pension funds. And considering the information Portal has provided about Mr 
Rs financial circumstances, I dont consider that he had the capacity to take the level of 
investment risk Portal recommended. 
I say this because Ive noted from Mr Rs circumstances and history of investments, that 
here doesnt appear to be any significant level of experience or sophistication which would 
have enabled him to understand the nature of the recommended investments, or the losses 
which might be incurred as a result of investing in them. 
I consider that Mr R would have been aware that investments carried some degree of risk 
in order to have returns, but he relied on Portal to recommend investments which would 
have been not only consistent with his attitude to risk, but also suitable for his wider circumstances. Mr R had very little in the way of other recorded investments or pensions. 
And I think he was very likely to have been reliant on this pension in retirement.  
Ive also considered the charging structure and options provided by the pension Mr R was 
advised to transfer from and the SIPP he was advised to transfer into. From the information I 
have seen, the ceding pension had an annual management charge of 1% pa. The plan also 
had a fund bonus that would pay a percentage of the value of the fund if Mr R stayed 
invested for up to 10 years and a smaller bonus of less than 1% a year from year 11 
onwards. 
In contrast the initial adviser charge for transferring into the SIPP was 5% of the funds 
transferred. In addition, there was an ongoing adviser fee of 1% pa. The SIPP also had an 
annual administration fee of £80, annual commission charge of 0.5% pa and the funds had a 
further annual management charge of 0.5% per annum. 
So, it seems to me taking into account the initial costs of transfer and the ongoing fees, the 
SIPP was a more expensive proposition from a charging perspective. And Mr R lost the 
benefit of the loyalty bonus that he could have received from the ceding pension if it had 
remained in place. Considering the available evidence, Im not persuaded that that someone 
of Mr Rs ATR, apparent limited investment experience and requirements needed the 
flexibility provided by the SIPP that Portal recommended. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr R would have remained in the pension that was transferred. I am satisfied 
that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
What should you do?
To compensate Mr R fairly Portal should:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Portal should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr R's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Portals payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Portal shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided 
a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
which seems likely to be the case, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
So, that is the reduction that I think should be applied. However, if Mr R would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
In addition, you should pay Mr R £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the disruption to his retirement planning.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, Portal should tell Mr R 
how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
 SIPPstill existsnotional value 
of the 
pension plan 
that was 
transferred 
assuming Mr 
R did not 
switch into 
the SIPPdate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
The ideal redress would be to complete the calculations by taking a notional 
value of the pension plan that was transferred into the SIPP, assuming that Mr R 
would not have switched. However, if that is not possible the above exercise 
should be completed using the benchmark: for half the investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Portal is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mr R provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
Mr R would have remained in the existing pension plan had Portal not provided 
unsuitable advice.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their 
capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take some level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP largely exists because of the unregulated and illiquid investments. In order for 
the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, these investments need to be 
removed. But if Portal cant buy them, Mr R is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair 
to assume five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Portal cant buy the investments, it should 
pay an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website 
by searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to 
their database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can 
be found by following this link:  
https://www.financialombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving- complaint/understanding-
compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, just type 
compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Rs complaint about Portal Financial Services LLP. If Mr R 
accepts my decision, it needs to calculate and pay any redress that may be due using the 
methodology Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman