DRN-4226832
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has failed to refund over 
£59,000 he lost as part of an employment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments he made to the scammer 
(either via faster payment or debit card) from his Halifax account. The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
Halifax dispute whether the alleged scammer ForgeRock was indeed operating a scam 
in this instance, as it considers the matter to be a civil dispute. All the evidence would 
suggest Mr M has fallen victim to an employment-task related scam here. But even 
accepting this as the case, I still dont think Halifax would be liable to refund any of the 
money Mr M has lost.
In terms of the initial faster payments Mr M made to the accounts of private individuals, I 
dont consider Halifax has acted unfairly by refusing to refund these under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Im not satisfied he had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payments to be genuine as he thought he was transferring money 
as part of an employment arrangement, yet hasnt been able to provide any 
documentation or contracts of employment. It should have also been cause for concern 
that he was being asked to pay money as part of his job, rather than receiving it for the 
work he carried out. I also dont think Halifax failed to meet its obligations under the 
Code either as Im not persuaded it wouldve been required to provide Mr M with an 
effective warning, given the payments were all of relatively low value. Therefore, Halifax 
was under no obligation to consider refunding these payments under the Code given that 
both exceptions to reimbursement apply.  
With regards to the remaining debit card payments not covered by the Code, its not in 
dispute that some of the payments were unusual given they did trigger the banks fraud 
prevention systems and led to Halifax speaking to Mr M. Accordingly, its just a question 
of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its interventions. 
Halifax warned Mr M that there was a strong chance he was being scammed when it 
spoke to him over the phone on 4 December 2022. However, despite having understood 
this, he did not want to report it as a scam. Halifax then spoke to Mr M again the 
following day, where he then said he was trying to buy USD. He didnt explain that he 
was making the payment as a result of an employment opportunity. He also said that no 
third party was involved, and that no one had asked him to move money onwards from 
his Binance account, despite this being untrue. So, even if Halifax could have gone 
further with its intervention, it seems unlikely that Mr M would have been upfront about 
what he was doing. And given he had already ignored a scam warning from his bank, Im 
not satisfied that any further warning would have ultimately prevented him from making 
further payments. As a result, I do not think Halifax can fairly be held liable for his loss.
Ive also considered whether Halifax did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. However, there wouldnt have been any successful prospect of a 
chargeback for the debit card payments made to Binance, as Mr M would have received 
the services he paid for. In terms of the faster payments, while I think Halifax should 
have sought to recover these payments when Mr M disputed the transactions, I dont 
think it would have likely had any success in doing so, given the time that had passed 
between the money being transferred and the fraud being reported. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded it could have reasonably done anything more to recover his funds in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman