DRN-3727520
The complaint
Mr F, through is representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money (Madison), lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Madisons records, Mr F took two loans and a brief table showing the 
details is set out below. Loan 1 was paid off using capital from Loan 2 and Mr F received an 
interest rebate on Loan 1 for  the early repayment. Loan 2 was paid off in June 2022. 
Loan Approved Amount Interest Repayment 
each monthRepaid
1 July 2019 £2,000 £936.16 £122.34 x 24 March 
2020
2 March 2020 £1,150 plus paid off 
loan 1 - £1,491.11  
total lent £2,641.11£1,270.17 £162.97 x 24 June 2022
Madison issued its final response letter (FRL) in August 2022 in which it gave reasons why it 
did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. Mr Fs representative referred it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and one of our adjudicators looked at it. 
He thought that Madison had carried out the correct checks and the loans looked to have 
been affordable. Her did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr Fs representative disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint but 
sent no additional financial information about Mr F to support the complaint. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr F  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
these loans would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr F. 
In practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loans 
wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g., their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, 
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F applied to Madison and told it that he was employed earning £1,907 each month, his 
rental cost was £100 and thats all he said. Mr F has said in his complaint form to us that he 
had utility arrears and that its been a struggle. No documentation has been sent to us to 
support Mr Fs claim which would have shown his financial situation in 2019 and 2020 when 
these loans were applied for. 
Some brief details were given in the letter of complaint sent to Madison in June 2022, a copy 
of which we have. His representative listed a series of late payments which it must have 
obtained from records but no records were sent with that letter. All these late payments post-
date the approval of these loans and so are irrelevant in my view.
And Mr Fs representative has told us that he took further loans which it says demonstrates 
Mr F was in need and had got into a cycle of borrowing. But again  these post-dated the 
approval of loans 1 and 2 with Madison and so are irrelevant when considering a complaint 
about loan approvals in July 2019 and March 2020. 
Madison did carry out a credit search before approving each loan and I have looked at those 
carefully.
The utility arrears to which Mr F referred in the complaint form to us were historic and not at 
all recent, so not likely to have had any impact on a potential lenders affordability assessment. Mr F had got a County Court Judgment but it dated back to 2014 and was 
about five years before Mr F approach Madison for loan 1 and so of historic detail only. 
I consider that Madison carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and it lent to him 
responsibly.  
I have been sent records of the repayments carried out by Mr F for loan 1 and there did not 
appear to be any missed payments or concerns. That would have had a bearing on 
Madisons consideration when Mr F approach it for loan 2 as a good repayment record 
would have been part of the affordability assessment it would have carried out for loan 2. 
For Loan 2, I have reviewed a copy of his credit search results that Madison carried out and 
although the amount of debt he was in had increased, the details on that set of results were 
more positive overall. And reviewing them theres nothing there which would have led me to 
think that Madison would be alerted to any concerns or financial difficulties.
If this is incorrect and Mr F was in financial trouble in 2019 or 2020 and not able to afford the 
loans from Madison I have no evidence from him or his representative to show me that. So, 
I have made my decision on the evidence I have.
I consider that Madison carried out proportionate checks for loan 2. I do not uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman