DRN-4037110
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unreasonably delayed 
transfers to a different bank account he holds with a different provider and it also provided 
him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr D has a bank account with Halifax. He says it unreasonably and unjustifiably delayed 
some transfers that he wished to make to a different bank account he holds with a different 
provider. 
He says that he is unhappy with the security questions that he was asked and that he should 
be entitled to transfer funds wherever he wants. Mr D also says that he was subsequently 
told by a different member of staff that the questions asked were unreasonable.
Mr D says that he had to make a number of calls to get the transfers actioned and this 
resulted in him having to find funds elsewhere.
In response to Mr Ds complaint Halifax credited him with £95 to reflect that it did not remove 
all the blocks from his account when Mr D contacted Halifax and for the customer service he 
received during this process.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said Halifax can complete additional 
checks on any payments, which may cause a delay and he believed that the £95 was 
sufficient for the customer service that Mr D received.
Mr D did not agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of points and Ive considered and read everything hes said and 
sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on 
the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr D that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Halifax to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them being victims of scams. Sometimes they identify and 
block/delay/refuse legitimate payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress 
and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted 
incorrectly. 
Ive considered what Mr D has said that the transfers he attempted to make were to his own 
account with a different provider. But Im not persuaded that this should mean that security 
checks should not take place in these instances. I say this because Halifax need to satisfy 
themselves that Mr D is the person who is genuinely making the payments and that Mr D 
was not being scammed. I would still expect Halifax to protect Mr Ds account, even if the 
transfers were to a different account held by Mr D.  
I have listened to the calls between Halifax and Mr D and I can hear he did mention that the 
transfers were part of an investment recommended by a friend. Given the recent large rise in 
scams I think it was then reasonable for Halifax to ask probing questions to find out more 
about this. 
I note Mr Ds comments that he thought that the questions that were being asked were 
inappropriate and this was confirmed by a different member of staff. I have listened to the 
call in question and I dont think the questions asked were inappropriate given the recent rise 
in scams.
So, I dont find it unreasonable for Halifax to have security controls in place to manage their 
obligations and to fulfil their duties to their customers to ensure each payment is genuinely 
made by their customers themselves and they are not being coerced or scammed into 
making payments.
This means I cant say that Halifax made an error in delaying Mr Ds transfers to ensure that 
the genuine customer made the payment and to meet their obligations. I accept that Halifax 
did make an error in not removing all the block on his account when he first contacted them 
so I do think that some compensation is merited.
In relation to the customer service that Mr D received Im persuaded that the £95 already 
paid to Mr D is appropriate compensation for Halifaxs error and reflects the impact this 
matter had on Mr D when he needed to contact Halifax several times in order to get the 
payments unblocked. It follows then that I do not require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax have already paid appropriate compensation to Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman