DRN-2923223
The complaint
Mr M complains to Santander UK Plc about their failure to facilitate the transfer of his 
maturing stocks and shares individual savings account (ISA). 
What happened
Mr M had an ISA with Santander due to mature in December 2020. Ahead of maturity, Mr M 
decided to move his money to an ISA with another bank who Ill refer to as C. So on 
23 November 2020, he filled in Cs transfer form and sent it to them. Mr M called C to check 
theyd received the form  they confirmed they had, and theyd passed it onto Santander.
Unfortunately, things didnt go to plan. Mr Ms ISA matured on 31 December but Santander 
didnt transfer his money to C, instead the proceeds were put into a savings account on 
6 January 2021. Unhappy with this, Mr M complained. Santander looked into his concerns 
but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong  they said they couldnt see theyd received 
maturity instructions from him so the money had been put into the account. 
Mr M went back to C to clarify what had happened  they wrote to him on 11 February and 
told him theyd emailed the transfer request to Santander on 25 November, and again on 
2 December as theyd had no response. C also said Santander had replied on 3 December. 
C was less clear what happened thereafter, but confirmed theyd contacted Santander again 
on 7 January and were told the proceeds had been paid out. 
Remaining unhappy with this, Mr M asked for our help  he felt hed done everything he 
could to get the transfer made, but it was either that thered been a failure on Santanders 
part, or on Cs part. Either way, the result of that failure was that his c£5,000 had been put 
into a deposit account and lost its ISA status  something he wanted to be compensated for.
 
Mr M shared some paperwork with us which was:
A copy of his transfer request form dated 23 November
An undated letter from C to Santander referencing the enclosure of multiple 
customers transfer request forms
An email from C to Santander dated 25 November attaching a transfer form, 
reference was also made to the bank details required
Another email from C to Santander dated 2 December attaching a transfer form, 
reference was also made to the bank details required
A reply from Santander to C dated 3 November saying please send with signed 
acceptance
An email from C to Santander on 7 January asking for an update
A reply from Santander to C dated 8 January confirming no transfer request was 
received and that the matured proceeds had been paid out
Mr Ms complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She reviewed the instruction 
given by C and how Santander had handled it, but she didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong as they hadnt received a complete transfer request. 
Mr M pointed out that Santander had received the first transfer request in good time. And it 
was only the second time C had sent it over did they get a reply  this asked for acceptance 
but this was on the day of the deadline, 3 December, so it wouldnt have been possible to 
get this done in time. Mr M felt Santander were at fault for not acting on Cs first email as that 
would have allowed time to get things sorted. Mr M also queried what Santander had meant 
when they asked for signed acceptance. 
Our investigator confirmed that the problem with the request was that C hadnt confirmed 
they were happy to receive the transfer  and that there was a requirement for C to do this, 
either by sending an acceptance letter or to record their acceptance in another way.
Mr M remained to feel as though hed been treated poorly by both Santander and C. Hed 
done all he could but thought both banks had made mistakes. In relation to Santander, he 
remained of the view that they ought to have handled the request on 25 November and that 
they were wrong to tell him they had no record of any transfer request, despite there having 
been two. As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to reconsider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M may either be considering or commencing a complaint against C. So 
I must make clear that my findings in this decision only relate to the actions and omissions of 
Santander  not those of C. I appreciate this may be frustrating for Mr M, who has asked our 
investigator to find against both firms, but our service considers individual disputes so Mr M 
will need to complain to C before we can help him further with them. 
With regards to Santander, I can see C sent two transfer requests to them  one in late 
November and the other in early December. The first wasnt responded to. But when the 
second was picked up, I see Santander went back to C to clarify what remained outstanding. 
What was missing here was an expression of acceptance from C that they were indeed 
happy to receive Mr Ms money. Like our investigator said, sometimes this acceptance is by 
way of a separate document, but other times it may be recorded on the same form. 
Ive reviewed the form Mr M filled in  the copy of it isnt clear but having checked against 
Cs forms, I can see that section four said the following (though I have removed some of Cs 
identifying details):
4 Transfer acceptance (to be completed by [C] once returned) 
We are willing to accept this ISA transfer in line with the customers instructions above, as long as the 
value is transferred as cash. 
I deem the date shown to be the transfer date of this ISA [X]
Name: [C]
Telephone: [X]
Address: [X]
This section was to be completed by C once Mr M had sent it to them. Unfortunately, on the 
form I have reviewed, the section remains blank and appears to be the reason for 
Santanders email to C on 3 December. I have not seen any evidence to suggest that C 
responded to Santanders email on 3 December or otherwise provided their acceptance. 
Because of this, I cant agree Santander have failed to process a valid transfer request. I take Mr Ms point about Cs first email to Santander  he suggests that if Santander had 
responded the next day to this email (rather like how they did to the second email) perhaps 
C would have acted on the request. 
However, I dont think this would change things here  as our investigator said, C didnt reply 
to the 3 December email at all, so even if Santander had sent it sooner, theres nothing to 
suggest C would have replied. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Santanders failure to 
handle the first request would have made any material difference in the outcome of this 
complaint. 
While I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M  not only as his 
money lost its ISA status but also as there wasnt anything more he could have done  from 
everything Ive seen I dont think Santander did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman