DRN-2275646
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim under his home 
insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
On 9 February 2020 Mr H notified his broker of storm damage to his garage roof. The broker 
gave him contact details for Ageas. Mr H tried to ring Ageas but its lines were busy. So he 
submitted a claim form online. Ageas contacted him the following day.
Ageas sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage on 20 February. Mr H provided an 
estimate for repairs. On 11 April Ageas offered him a cash settlement based on his estimate. 
Payment was made not long afterwards.
Mr H made several complaints to Ageas about the way it handled his claim. In summary he 
was unhappy that:
the broker wouldnt deal with his claim;
the lack of response from Ageas when hed first called to make the claim;
the fact that hed received an email inviting him to notify his claim online when hed 
already done so;
Ageass call handler had repeatedly interrupted him during a telephone call;
he hadnt had a response in writing to his complaints;
hed didnt have the policy booklet referred to in an email from Ageas; and
thered been a delay on the part of the loss adjuster in responding to the quote hed 
provided.
Ageas didnt agree that it had acted unreasonably. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. He wanted a response to each of his separate 
complaints, an apology from Ageas and financial compensation. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She didnt think Ageas had done anything substantially wrong with 
regard to the claim. She also said that Ageas was entitled to take up to eight weeks to issue 
a final response in respect of Mr Hs complaints and it had complied with this. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the matter has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive read each of Mr Hs separate complaint letters very carefully even though I 
havent addressed each separate complaint point individually. 
For the avoidance of doubt I confirm that in this decision I am only looking at how Ageas has 
handled Mr Hs claim up to the point when it issued its final response in respect of his 
complaint, being 25 March 2020.
Two of Mr Hs complaints concern his broker rather than Ageas. I cant hold Ageas 
responsible for the fact that Mr Hs broker couldnt help him with his claim. It didnt have 
authority to do so. The policy booklet makes it clear that Ageas should be contacted in the 
event of a claim. Its also not Ageass fault if Mr H didnt receive a copy of the policy booklet 
from his broker. 
Turning to the contact Mr H had with Ageas, I know that making a claim can often be 
stressful for a policyholder at the best of times. Thats even more likely to be the case when, 
like Mr H, theyre trying to make a claim the day after a named storm when many other 
policyholders are trying to do the same thing. It would be frustrating for Mr H not to be able to 
get through to Ageas by telephone. But in these circumstances Ageas was directing 
customers to its website where Mr H did manage to log his claim successfully that day. I 
appreciate that this was more difficult than it might have been at a quieter time but I dont 
think Ageas treated Mr H unreasonably in redirecting him in this way. The email Mr H 
received from Ageas about registering his claim online after hed already done so might have 
been a little confusing. But I think the fact that Ageas contacted him the next day to discuss 
his claim made up for any inconvenience caused by that. 
Mr H has complained about the way he was spoken to by Ageass claim handler. Ive 
listened to that call and it seems to me that by that stage Mr H was already very unhappy 
with the way he was being treated by Ageas. He didnt accept that the claim handler had 
tried to call him earlier in the day although the business notes provided to us indicate that 
such a call was attempted. Ive no reason to doubt what the claim handler said. I agree the 
claim handler could have been a little more professional in dealing with a customer who was 
clearly very frustrated. But I think Ageas treated Mr H fairly in response to a complaint about 
this by ensuring that a different claim handler was involved in his case going forward.
There was some delay on the part of the loss adjuster in reviewing Mr Hs quote. But overall 
the claim was handled and settled within just over two months, which I think, in the 
circumstances, is a reasonable timescale.
Lastly Mr H is dissatisfied with the way Ageas handled his complaints. Without wishing to 
disappoint Mr H, complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity. I have, however, I 
looked at Mr Hs overall customer experience with Ageas. Im not persuaded it treated him 
unfairly. And although hes clearly unhappy with its response to his complaints, I can see 
that Ageas dealt with them within the timescale required of a regulated business. I know that 
Mr H has very strong feelings on this matter but for the reasons explained above, I dont 
think that Ageas has failed him in handling his claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman