DRN-2012367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Intelligent Finance) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr R, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side still have all the original records from the sale, which is very much unsurprising 
given that it was nearly two decades ago. Indeed, under data protection rules, Intelligent 
Finance were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Rs data rather than hold onto it for too long. 
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited 
information I have.
From what Ive seen of the sales process, Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage came with free PPI, 
which ended after around six months. It looks like Intelligent Finance wouldve written to 
Mr and Mrs R to let them know the free period was ending, and to offer a quote if they 
wanted to continue with PPI. Then in order to continue, Mr and Mrs R needed to actively 
choose to keep PPI  otherwise the policy would automatically cancel at the end of the free 
period. It appears they chose to keep the policy here. And Mr and Mrs R wouldve known 
they didnt have to buy PPI to get approved for their mortgage, since their mortgage had 
already been approved some months before. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Rs frustration at Intelligent Finance no longer having definitive 
proof of whether they consented to PPI or not. But this sale was far too long ago for me to 
reasonably require Intelligent Finance to still have, for example, a recording of the call. It 
would have been a very serious failing for Intelligent Finance to have misled Mr or Mrs R into 
having PPI  and I have no evidence to show thats what it did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time, or any evidence which shows that this 
particular sale differed significantly from the normal process. So on the balance of 
probabilities, I think its most likely that Intelligent Finance made it clear that Mr and Mrs R 
had a choice about buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Intelligent Finance recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it had to check it was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it most likely 
was. For example, it looks like Mr R was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and 
wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr R said he had exceptionally good benefits through work, the benefits hes told us 
about are unusual, unevidenced, and dont fit with his circumstances  such as his length of 
service at the time. So I think its most likely hes mistaken about how generous those 
benefits were. In addition, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits. And this 
mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment  there was no guarantee that Mr R 
would have the same job situation or benefits in the many years to come. Ultimately, if 
Mr and Mrs R fell behind on their repayments, they couldve lost their home. So it seems 
most likely that this policy couldve been useful for them in protecting their home and 
providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Intelligent Finance gave Mr and Mrs R about PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely 
to have changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs R in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs R could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman