DRN-3822558
The complaint
Mr D feels that Nationwide Building Society has treated him unfairly about a transaction on 
his credit card to purchase a bicycle.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr D purchased online a bike using his Nationwide Building Society 
credit card (NBS for short) from a company Ill call Firm W. Mr D then said he suffered a 
number of punctures in his rear wheel. So he talked to Firm W but after some discussion no 
solution was agreed. So he took his dispute to NBS.
NBS said it considered the dispute and noted that Mr D had various works done to the bike 
in the interim including changing inner tubes and the tyre. NBS has said it because of this it 
couldnt consider the quality of the bike at point of purchase properly. It says it did consider 
S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but felt the necessary relationship for S75 to apply 
wasnt in place. So it didnt think it could do anything more for Mr D.
Mr D also points to an information request he made to NBS and how another, unrelated 
persons dispute with NBS has been evidenced to him in the information request. Mr D feels 
that this other persons dispute with NBS has prejudiced his dispute with NBS. He feels NBS 
has discriminated against him. NBS has said it made a mistake in relation to his information 
request and said it would pay him £75 for that failing. Unhappy with this Mr D brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator issued an assessment on the matter which found that any Chargeback 
under the scheme rules was out of time and would have not had a reasonable prospect of 
success. The Investigator also found that the required relationship for S75 wasnt in place. 
But Mr D doesnt agree. He points to the costs of new inner tubes for his bike, repair costs 
and having to purchase a new bike. So this complaint came to me to decide.
In October 2022 I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Both Mr D 
and NBS have provided further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision NBS said it had no further comments to make. Mr D 
made the following points, but these havent persuaded me to deviate from the findings in 
my provisional decision. I shall address the key arguments he makes below. But I do note 
that in Mr Ds response he makes no arguments around what NBS did wrong. And Id have 
expected him to do so having explained in my provisional decision that this decision can only 
be about what NBS and how it approached Mr Ds dispute.
Mr D asks why it his photographic evidence was omitted from the decision and why google 
searches were preferred to an independent report. I considered both the photos and the 
report but as I explained neither was persuasive of their being issues at the point of sale but 
rather they delineated issues at the respective times of those photos being taken and the 
report being made. The point of the website information I put forward was to show that such 
issues as Mr D describes are very common in the normal usage of bikes such as this. And 
as I noted as Mr D describes there were a number of occasions when the wheels and tyres 
were manipulated for the replacement of inner tubes. So I dont think these arguments 
persuade me NBS has treated Mr D unfairly.
Mr D has said I still cannot understand how an assumption can be made that the Charge 
Back can be assumed to fail due to the Global Pandemic and my inability to obtain an 
independent assessment until April 2021 due to the shops being closed. As an Ombudsman 
the test I must apply is the civil test, that is on the balance of probabilities. As I described in 
my provisional decision due to the lack of evidence available on this dispute during the 
period a chargeback would have been in time to meet the time limits of the scheme my 
finding is that any chargeback would have been unlikely to succeed. So NBS doesnt have to 
do any more. And whilst Mr D says he couldnt get the report earlier due to the pandemic it 
doesnt mean NBS has done anything wrong in how it treated Mr Ds dispute. Mr D may well 
feel that the pandemic has led to him losing out. But that doesnt mean NBS has done 
anything wrong.
So having considered Mr Ds arguments both prior and since my provisional decision and for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision Im not persuaded that NBS has treated Mr D 
unfairly. So it doesnt have to do anything further. I shall now provide brief overview of my 
rationale in my provisional decision.
authorisation
Considering what has happened here and what the parties have said Im satisfied on 
balance that Mr D did properly authorise the transaction at the time. And accordingly it was 
correctly allocated to his account by NBS.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
I dont think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr D didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.  I can 
see in October 2020 there was some back and forth between Mr D and Firm W and some 
discussion about the issues with the bike. I can see Firm W asking for the bike to be taken 
into a repair shop and offering to cover limited repair costs. Also in October 2020 Mr D said 
he was going to explore making a claim to NBS.
In February 2021 NBS issued a final response and it said it didnt proceed with raising a 
chargeback due to the bike having been altered since it was purchased. NBS said that Mr D 
had said hed replaced a number of inner tubes as well as the rear tyre. Im not necessarily 
persuaded this was sufficient reason to not raise a chargeback, but Im not persuaded it 
makes a difference either. I say this because of the following reasons.
In April 2021 Mr D got an independent bike shop to look at it. Ive seen its report and it said;
Inspected rear wheel and rim tape is not straight and has folded, allowing the holes for the 
nipples in the rim to come into contact with the inner tube, causing punctures.Ive also done some research and I note the following comments online which are examples 
of many such comments around rim tape:
Rim tape is essential to protect from punctures caused by the tube expanding into recessed 
spoke holes, from pinch flats on the sharp edges of the spoke holes or from scratches or 
imperfections on the inner rim. https://hub.chainreactioncycles.com/buying-guides/wheels-
and-tyres
All rim tape can indirectly trigger a flat when it's not covering the spoke's eyelets. Worn-out 
plastic rim tape can cause flats on its own due to the formation of sharp edges. 
https://brainybiker.com/can-rim-tape-cause-flats/
I also note that there are numerous videos online showing how to remove and replace rim 
tape and comments about how it can wear out through use.
Mr D says he didnt get the independent report until the following April due to the pandemic. 
However the chargeback scheme has time limits within which disputes need to be raised. 
Having considered these and what happened here this evidence of April 2021 wouldnt have 
been available within the time limits imposed by the card scheme. I also note that although 
the independent report shows the rim tape not being straight and having folded, it doesnt 
state that this was the case at the time of purchase but rather is the case at the point of 
inspection. And its clear from what Mr D has explained the tyre had been removed 
numerous times (to replace inner tubes) and indeed the tyre had been replaced before this 
inspection was done. So its just as possible that the tape was damaged since the purchase 
rather than the tape being faulty at purchase. 
I also think that had the tape been folded as the inspection states it was, this would have 
been likely to be noticed on any of the numerous occasions the tyre was taken off the wheel. 
As it hadnt been noticed or dealt with on the numerous previous occasions it seems more 
likely to me that the issues with the tape werent in place when Mr D bought the bike. I 
appreciate Mr D says these issues happened soon after purchasing the bike but it seems to 
me that its quite possible that initial punctures were due to issues other than the rim tape 
and in the process of repairing or replacing inner tubes there could have been damage or 
fair wear and tear to the rim tape which was later evidenced in the independent report.
Ive considered the possible chargeback reason codes available here. And bearing in mind 
the evidence available, the fact that Firm W suggested bringing the bike in for repair and that 
the independent report hadnt been sought at that point Im not persuaded that any of the 
available chargeback reason codes would have had a reasonable prospect of success. And 
once the inspection report was available the time limits to raise a chargeback had already 
expired.
Mr D points to the pandemic and other reasons why he thinks a chargeback should have 
been successful. But the chargeback scheme is a simple mechanism between merchants 
and creditors which looks solely at the dispute at hand. So Im not persuaded by Mr Ds 
comments here. So although I dont think NBSs approach here was necessarily correct, I 
dont think Mr D has lost out here by what NBS did as I dont think any chargeback here had 
a reasonable prospect of success.
Section 75
NBS argued that the requisite relationship set out in the CCA isnt in place here, namely the 
Debtor, Creditor, Supplier relationship (DCS for short). It says theres no direct link between 
NBS and Firm W. I didnt agree with this provisionally but now I dont think this is a key 
argument as it doesnt make a difference to my conclusions. This is because Im not persuaded Firm W has breached or misrepresented the contract as Ive described in relation 
to chargeback and below.
Satisfactory quality
When items are purchased the operation of the Consumer Rights Act means that such items 
should be of a satisfactory quality, taking into account a number of considerations such as 
how it was advertised, whether it was new or used and so on. When Mr D got the 
independent report the onus is on Mr D to demonstrate that the bike was of unsatisfactory 
quality when he got it. NBS doesnt have to prove that it was of satisfactory quality at point of 
sale.
NBS had pointed to the issue of the bike having had numerous inner tubes replaced and the 
tyre being replaced also when it considered chargeback. So it had clearly thought about the 
evidence Mr D provided and the issue of works being done on the wheel since purchase. 
Ive considered the independent report which points to the rim tape being not straight and 
folded. But it doesnt make a finding that was the case at point of purchase. It could easily be 
the case that the rim tape became like that through fair wear and tear. Or whoever replaced 
the inner tubes and tyre could have caused that damage or indeed faultily applied new rim 
tape which the manufacturers wouldnt be responsible for. And I have to consider the 
independent report was done many months after purchase and didnt point to any issues 
having been in place since the time of purchase.
So although NBS didnt properly consider breach of contract or misrepresentation Im not 
persuaded that this has caused Mr D to lose out here. I say this for the above reasons but 
also the fact that Firm W offered to cover repair costs up to £25 if Mr D took the bike to a 
repair shop and forwarded the receipt for such work to Firm W. One of the remedies for 
breach of contract is repair. Had Mr D taken up Firm Ws offer, and had the issue been 
present, the rim tape could have been easily rectified at that point. This is a repair that many 
cyclists do themselves regularly and doesnt require any particular skills or equipment 
outside of replacing inner tubes. But Mr D didnt do this at that time, but rather much later, 
when he had this done at a cost of £8. So I consider the offer made by Firm W to be a fair 
solution in the circumstances which Mr D didnt take up. 
All in all Im find that NBS hasnt treated Mr D unfairly by not refunding him. I appreciate that 
I dont agree with all of NBS reasoning, nevertheless for the reasons given Im not 
persuaded Mr D has been treated unfairly. I dont think a chargeback had a reasonable 
prospect of success and Im not persuaded that the bike was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
point of purchase.
Purchase of new bike
Mr D says he had to buy a new bike due to the issues here. I dont agree. Mr D didnt accept 
Firm Ws offer to pay for the repair required which he ultimately had done later elsewhere. 
And Mr D has an obligation to mitigate consequential loss which he did to latterly by having 
the repair done. So the decision to purchase a new bike sits with him.
Discrimination
Mr D says NBS discriminated against him because it gave differing advice on social media 
compared to what hed been told in his case. Mr D doesnt describe how he feels he is being 
discriminated against or provide supporting evidence of such discrimination. He just points to 
the differing positions taken here. Im not persuaded Mr D has been discriminated against 
here bearing in mind the differing natures of the context of what was said by NBS in the two 
differing quotes that Mr D points to. 
The information of the other personMr D points to the other information relating to another consumer which came to light in this 
matter. NBS said it would pay him £75 for that failing. But Mr D says due to the nature of the 
apparent dispute between the other consumer and NBS he feels his case has been unfairly 
treated by NBS due to what the other consumer said. Firstly Im not persuaded by Mr Ds 
arguments here. I dont think NBS has treated Mr D unfairly in the first instance. Secondly 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that NBS confused Mr D with the other consumer bearing 
in mind their disputes were about very different subject matters. So I dont think NBS has to 
do any more than the offer it already put to Mr D for this issue.
Stress
Mr D says this whole episode has caused him significant stress. Im sorry to hear this and 
consider such impact on consumers a very important issue. But I do note that Firm W did 
offer Mr D to pay for repair which Mr D didnt take up. I think it likely that had he done so 
then any issues present would have been repaired. I dont think NBS should be responsible 
for Mr D not taking that option. And furthermore NBS can only be responsible for such 
consequential losses if breach of contract or misrepresentation are made out. And Im not 
persuaded they are made out here for the reasons given.
Information Commissioner Office
Mr D has described his substantial concern about what happened here with regard to his 
data. These are important issues. However I do note that it is someone elses data being 
added to his file rather than his data being shared. So Im not persuaded that NBSs offer 
here is unfair. And I note that Mr D is already in liaison with the Information Commissioners 
Office and that is an appropriate body to consider such matters.
Summary
I dont think Mr D has done enough to show breach or misrepresentation are actually factors 
here. And although Im not persuaded NBS sufficiently considered the matter in the round I 
dont think Mr D lost out because of this. I say this because even if NBS had considered 
chargeback appropriately I dont think any such chargeback had a reasonable prospect of 
success. And I dont think he's lost out because of its consideration of S75. And as such I 
dont need to consider the DCS issue further.
Accordingly, and for all the reasons given above this complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For all the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. It doesnt have anything further to do in relation to this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman