DRN-2657238
The complaint
Mr B complains that Accelerant Insurance Limited has declined his holiday home insurance 
claim for damage caused by water ingress. 
What happened
Mr B is the owner of a park home. He visited the home in mid-November 2019 before the 
park closed for the season. The park re-opened at the start of March 2020 but then had to 
close shortly after due to the pandemic. Mr B was next able to visit his home at the start of 
July 2020. On doing so he discovered some water damage to the base of some of the 
internal panels and the feet of the dining furniture. He made a claim under his policy to 
Accelerant. 
Accelerant appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and validate the claim. Prior to 
the loss adjusters attendance, Mr B contacted the site maintenance team to come and have 
a look at the damage. The maintenance engineer identified that there was a defective seal 
across the top of the entrance door. 
The loss adjuster noted no physical damage to any of the exterior wall panels or roof such 
as would be expected to be caused by a storm. He also noted that the door trim had been 
removed and replaced by tape to prevent any water ingress. The loss adjuster said the door 
trim had deteriorated over time. Inside he noted the wall panel adjacent to the door had been 
damaged at its base and the damage to the dining furniture was limited to the feet of the 
table and chairs. 
The loss adjuster was unable to identify that the damage had been caused by any of the 
insured events covered by the policy. He said it was likely water had ingressed via door 
seals and/or seams the wear and tear of which were specifically excluded from cover under 
the storm peril in the policy. The loss adjuster recommended that Accelerant decline the 
claim. 
Accelerant told Mr B that his claim for water damage wasnt covered. Mr B was unhappy with 
the decision. Accelerant said that if Mr B could provide evidence that the damage was 
covered by one of the insured events listed in the policy it would reconsider the claim. 
Accelerant also asked the loss adjuster to review its decision. 
The loss adjuster looked at whether the claim could be considered under the accidental 
damage section of the policy but concluded that the cause of damage (the failure of the seal 
over time) couldnt have been said to have occurred accidentally (i.e. suddenly and 
unintentionally). It was noted that there was a specific exclusion under the accidental 
damage section of the policy such that damage that was the result of wear and tear, or 
which occurs gradually, wasnt covered. Accelerant told Mr B that its decision to decline the 
claim remained unchanged. 
Mr B made a complaint to Accelerant. It looked into his complaint but didnt think itd unfairly 
or unreasonably declined the claim. Unhappy with the outcome of Accelerants investigation, 
Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt think 
Accelerant had unfairly or unreasonably declined the claim so she didnt recommend that it 
was upheld. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage sustained by a property will be covered by its insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the insured events (or, perils)  storm, theft, subsidence, flood etc.  is 
covered. Its the responsibility of the policyholder to show that the damage they are claiming 
for is covered by the policy terms. If they are able to do so, the insurer must pay the claim 
unless it can successfully rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it.  
Mr Bs policy has two possible insured events under which the damage can be considered. 
The first is the storm event. Usually, when looking at complaints about a declined claim for 
storm damage this service asks three questions: 
Was there a storm on or around the time the damage occurred;
Is the damage consistent with that which is likely to be caused by a storm;
Was the storm the dominant cause of the damage.

The answer to all three questions must be yes for this service to require an insurer to meet a 
storm damage claim. 
In the case of Mr Bs claim, the circumstances are such that it is difficult to know if there was 
one single identifiable storm around the time the damage occurred. Thats because, owing to 
the pandemic, the holiday park was closed from the end of 2019 to the summer of 2020. 
There were named storms in the UK during that time but it is impossible to know whether 
any of them were around the time the damage occurred because Mr Bs park home wasnt in 
use. 
Even if I assume the answer to question one is a yes however, Im unable to reasonably 
conclude that the answer to question two should be the same. So, even if there was a storm, 
I dont think  from the evidence Ive seen  that the damage sustained by the park home 
was consistent with that which could be caused by a storm. I say this because the park 
maintenance engineer reported a defective seal across the top of the entrance door. And the 
loss adjuster reported a deterioration of the door trim over time (not as a result of a one-off 
storm event). He also said that there was no physical damage to the exterior walls or roof of 
the home which he wouldve expected to see if the damage to the home had been caused 
by a storm. Inside the home the damage was to the wall panel adjacent to the entrance door. 
So, its not unreasonable to conclude that that was the result of the failed door seal. 
Door seals tend to fail over time rather than during a storm. Even if I thought the seal had 
been damaged by a storm  which I dont  I think that in order for that to have happened 
other physical damage to the exterior would also have needed to be evident. And there is no 
evidence of any other damage to the home other than to the door seal/seam. Ive seen the policy terms and can see that damage caused by a storm isnt covered where 
there is loss or damage arising from seepage of water into any structures through seams or 
seals. 
I cant reasonably ignore the evidence of the loss adjuster or park maintenance engineer. 
And I dont think Accelerant have unfairly relied on this evidence when considering the claim 
against the policy terms. Unfortunately for Mr B, the cause of the damage he reported is 
specifically excluded from cover. So, the answer to question two is no. I neednt go on to 
consider question three. 
I can see that Accelerant also considered whether the claim fell under the accidental 
damage peril in the policy. But unfortunately for Mr B, not only does it appear that the 
damage to the seal was caused over time (and so not sudden or unintentional in the way an 
accident should be) but theres a similar specific exclusion for the accidental damage peril 
where damage caused by wear and tear or anything gradual also isnt covered by the policy.
 
After our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, he provided her with a report hed had 
done by a glazing sealant contractor. He said hed checked all the seals and frame and that 
the water ingress hadnt occurred through the door. I can see from the loss adjusters 
photographs that the top of the door trim had been removed. Its not clear to me whether this 
had been replaced and resealed by the time Mr Bs contractor attended to carry out his 
report (and thus was again watertight). The contractor doesnt comment on it. And whilst he 
thought the water ingress hadnt occurred through the door he didnt say  if it didnt - how it 
couldve occurred. 
So, whilst Ive taken Mr Bs contractors comments into account, they havent persuaded me 
that I should ignore the comments of the maintenance engineer and loss adjuster or that 
Accelerants decision to decline his claim was an unfair one to have reached. I appreciate 
that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B but, taking all the circumstances into 
account, I cant fairly uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman