DRN-2922252
The complaint
Mr J complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly dealt with a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
UKI was trading as Churchill, but Ill refer to the business as UKI in this decision to keep 
things simple.
What happened
Mr J made a claim on his motor insurance policy for storm damage to his car. He said a 
fence had fallen onto the car, and had dented it. Mr J told UKI the car didnt have any 
damage before the fence fell on it. 
UKI rejected Mr Js claim. It explained, in summary, that the engineer who inspected the car 
didnt believe that the damage was consistent with a fence having fallen on it. Hed 
commented that there were two distinct areas of damage. UKI said that Mr J had only 
provided photos of the damaged fence after it had asked numerous times. It commented that 
the fence posts were still upright. And it said it couldnt see how the fence panel could have 
landed on both sides of the car. It explained that it had got the opinion of two different 
engineers, and neither of them thought that the damage was likely to have been caused by a 
falling fence.
UKI drew Mr Js attention to the provisions about fraud in his policy document. And it said it 
had concluded that Mr J had knowingly given it information that he knew was false and/or 
had deliberately failed to provide it with information that he was under a duty to disclose. And 
it believed that Mr J had done this dishonestly, with a view to financial gain.
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that having reviewed Mr Js testimony, behaviour during the claim, photos 
of the damage and the engineers opinions, he didnt think UKI had acted unfairly in 
response to Mr Js claim. 
Mr J was unhappy with the investigators view. His main points in response to the view were:
The engineers report and the investigators view contain discrepancies and 
falsehoods. Mr J doesnt accept that there was, as the investigator said a string of 
unusual behaviour on his part. Hes been totally honest. UKI never asked him for an 
interview, and denies that he was resistant to giving one, or to answering enquiries. 
He explained repeatedly that he was very poor at technology, but hed try to send 
images. Hes not sure why he needed to provide images in any event, as the garage 
took pictures of the car at the site of the incident, as well as at the garage. 
The fence and the concrete post were ripped out of the ground by one of the worst 
storms to hit the area. The fence was separated from the post in the storm, and they 
could easily have hit different areas of the car, which was only three or four feet 
away. The post has since been put back against a tree, and the fence pushed back 
upright against it, which is how it is shown in the photos.
He doesnt accept that the car was in a poor condition before the storm. Hes referred 
to photos of the back and sides of the car, which he says are in very good condition. 
And he disputes that there was heavy corrosion on the wing of the car, as noted by 
the engineers. He believes damage could have been caused to the paintwork during 
the storm, and then quickly rusted, as it was so wet.
Because Mr J was unhappy with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should explain first how this service deals with complaints like this one. Where an insurer 
has declined a claim, we check whether it has done so fairly, and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy. We also check that were satisfied that the insurer did 
enough to investigate the circumstances surrounding the claim.
In Mr Js case there isnt any dispute that his car was damaged. But theres disagreement as 
to how the damage happened. Mr J says the damage was caused by the storm. He says the 
fence post and panel were separated by the force of the storm. But UKI believes that Mr Js 
car was damaged before the storm. 
I need to decide whether I think UKI did enough to determine whether the damage was 
caused by the storm, as Mr J says, or whether the car was already damaged. And having 
carefully considered UKIs files and everything that Mr J has told us, I think UKI assessed 
the situation thoroughly enough. 
The first engineer inspected the car and commented that the damage was on both sides. He 
said there was paint missing and heavy corrosion on one side, which he said wouldnt have 
developed in the time between the storm and the photos being taken. And he said the 
damage on the other side was heavier, and it looked as if the car had been driven into 
something.
UKI then got another engineer to look at the photos of the damage. The second engineers 
view was also that it was clear that there were two separate areas of damage to the car, 
which appeared to have been caused in unrelated incidents. And he said the two areas 
seemed to have been damaged at different times. He also commented that the corrosion on 
one of the wings would have taken some time to develop. He said that judging by the shape, 
extent and location of the damage, he thought it was most likely to have been caused by 
another vehicle, and he didnt think it was likely to have been caused by a falling or blown 
fence panel, regardless of the angle of impact.
So UKI had the opinion of two different experts about the likely cause of the damage. They 
both said that they didnt believe that the damage was likely to have been caused by the 
fence. And even though Mr J said there was no damage to the car before the storm, they 
both thought the car had already been damaged and in a poor condition. Having considered the detailed observations of the two engineers, UKI took the view that, 
contrary to his assertion that there was no damage before the storm, Mr J must have been 
aware that his car was, in fact, already damaged. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable 
in reaching this conclusion. I acknowledge what Mr J says about the fence and the post 
having both fallen and been separated, and about the particularly stormy conditions. But the 
second engineer commented specifically that he didnt think the damage had been caused 
by the fence, regardless of the angle of impact  in other words, even if it was blown around.
Ive borne in mind what Mr J says about his difficulty in providing photos. And I understand 
that hes upset that UKI commented about what it regarded as his unwillingness to co-
operate fully with the investigation. Looking at UKIs notes, it looks as if there were times 
when Mr J queried the need for further discussion or evidence. But I dont need to consider 
this point in detail. As Ive explained, I think it was reasonable of UKI to take the view, based 
on all the information it had, that it was likely that Mr J knew that his car had been damaged 
before the storm.
Mr Js policy included the following wording:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times.
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts 
to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
 your policy may be cancelled;
 we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims;
 we may keep any premium you have paid...
As it was, UKI didnt cancel Mr Js policy. And its confirmed that it hasnt reported the claim 
as fraudulent. So Mr Js ability to get insurance elsewhere wont be affected by the claim. 
But it did decline his claim for the damage to his car. And taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied that it was entitled to do so under the terms of Mr Js policy, and that this was fair 
and reasonable. So I cant fairly require UKI to pay Mr Js claim, or to take any other action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman