DRN-3746514
Complaint
Mr N is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In May 2021, Mr N applied for a First Direct bank account. First Direct was concerned that 
Mr N made a material misrepresentation in the personal information he provided. So it 
declined Mr Ns application and also recorded a fraud prevention marker against him -  in 
particular, First Direct was concerned that Mr N hadnt disclosed an address which hed had 
adverse information recorded against him at. 
Mr N complained after learning that First Direct had recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. First Direct looked at Mr Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr N remained 
dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns concerns. He thought that First Direct had unfairly 
recorded the fraud prevention marker against Mr N, as it hadnt met the evidential 
requirements to do so. First Direct disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that First Direct has filed is intended to record that there was application fraud  
relating to Mr N using his real name but providing other false information in an application for 
a financial product. In order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr N is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there 
are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain their version of events in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ns complaint, I need to decide whether I think First Direct had 
enough evidence to show that Mr N did provide materially false information. Secondly, First 
Direct also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr N was deliberately dishonest 
when doing so and that any discrepancies werent simply down to a mistake or 
misunderstanding. Its also important to note First Direct had to have enough evidence to 
meet both parts of test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I dont think that First Direct did have enough to record the fraud 
marker it did. 
I firstly say this because First Direct hasnt provided me with anything to indicate that it 
obtained Mr Ns version of events before recording the marker. I accept it believed the 
information it obtained from credit reference agencies indicated that Mr N had failed to 
disclose an address that hed lived at. But at best this, on its own, is only really enough to 
trigger suspicion or concern and it doesnt clearly demonstrate that Mr N was deliberately 
dishonest. Indeed, I have to question how First Direct could possibly have assessed Mr Ns 
knowledge and intention before it recorded the fraud marker against him when it looks like it 
didnt speak to him before doing so - arguably this in itself is unfair.
In any event, Im not persuaded that the information First Direct has provided actually clearly 
demonstrates that Mr N did deliberately provide false information when making his 
application for a bank account. First Direct has said it considers Mr N provided false 
information because the credit checks it carried out show that Mr N had adverse credit 
information recorded at another address, which Ill refer to as address B, which he hadnt 
declared. 
Ive looked at the information provided. And I agree that adverse information was recorded 
on an account registered in Mr Ns name at address B. However, Im mindful that the same 
credit search information also shows that Mr N was registered on the electoral roll at the 
address he provided on his application, which Ill refer to address A, since October 2012. 
And I cant see that Mr N was asked to provide the details of any other addresses he might 
have been living at, at the time of his application. So in my view, while First Direct may feel 
that it received incomplete information, I dont think that this was because anything Mr N said 
or did. He simply answered the questions that First Direct asked.      
Id also question why Mr N would have dishonestly withheld the details of address B, given 
that a significant amount of adverse information was, in any event, recorded against him at 
address A, when he made his application to First Direct. In these circumstances, it is difficult 
for me to see what benefit Mr N wouldve seen by withholding an address with adverse 
information linked to it, when First Direct would have seen adverse information at address A 
anyway. 
Of course, I accept it is possible that Mr N intentionally tried to deceive First Direct in the way 
it says it did. And that was enough for it to be suspicious or concerned. But the important 
thing here it that is First Directs responsibility to demonstrate that Mr N knowingly and 
dishonestly provided false information. And I think that it has failed to do that here. 
First Direct needed to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the 
matter to the police. Simply pointing out that adverse information was recorded against Mr N, 
at a different address, at a time he says he was living somewhere else  especially where it 
didnt obtain Mr Ns version of events on this and it didnt ask Mr N about this address - just 
isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing as the facts and 
circumstances of this case appear to support Mr Ns explanation being plausible.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that First Direct had sufficient 
evidence to meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Mr N. As this is the case, I 
think that it was unfair for First Direct to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im upholding Mr Ns complaint and First Direct needs to 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded and also pay Mr N £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience its actions caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Mr N and also pay him £250 in 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman