DRN-4065260
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is unfairly holding him responsible for repayment of a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
In July 2020, Mr G made a successful application for a £2,000 BBL. Lloyds paid the funds 
into his sole trader business bank account.
BBLs were part of a government-backed scheme, designed to help businesses get finance 
more quickly if they were adversely affected by the coronavirus outbreak.
The repayments on the BBL fell into arrears and Mr G complained to the bank, saying that 
when hed applied for the BBL, it was on behalf of a Community Interest Company (CIC). He 
said he wasnt trading as a sole trader and shouldnt be held responsible for repaying the 
BBL. Lloyds didnt change its position. It said that Mr G only had a sole trader account, and 
that hed applied for the loan and entered into the agreement. Mr G referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and concluded that Lloyds hadnt done anything 
wrong in pursuing Mr G for repayment of the loan. She said the loan agreement was 
between Mr G and Lloyds, and the loan funds were paid into Mr Gs sole trader account. 
The investigator noted that there was a record of a conversation in 2016 between Mr G and 
Lloyds about the bank account. At the time, he mentioned that the business was trading as 
the CIC. It was agreed that Mr G would continue trading with the sole trader account and a 
new account for the CIC would be opened in the future. But no application for a new CIC 
account was ever received by Lloyds.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review the case. He said the banks documents didnt give 
him any indication that the accounts were in his name as a sole trader.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and 
for largely the same reasons.
Mr G believes that there was an error when the bank account was set up, which was many 
years before the conversation in 2016. He says it shouldnt have been a sole trader account. 
But thats not a matter I can consider, because its outside our time limits  as the 
investigator has already explained to Mr G. In any event, its clear that from the 2016 
conversation onwards, Mr G knew that the bank account was set up as a sole trader 
account. I therefore believe he would have been aware of this when he applied for the BBL 
in 2020.
Having looked at the loan documents, Im also satisfied that both the BBL application and its 
facility letter were in the name of Mr G as a sole trader. The funds were then paid into his 
sole trader bank account. In my view, all this is clear from the documents provided by the 
bank to Mr G. For these reasons, I cant reasonably say that the bank has wrongly held him 
responsible for the loan. 
I know that Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. I realise he is very anxious about the 
implications of the debt, both for himself and for his family, and he has my sympathy. But I 
dont find that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably by seeking repayment of the BBL 
from Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman