DRN-1337276
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway (Moneyway). He also complains that he was 
pressured into signing the finance documents and that he wasnt given an opportunity to test 
drive the car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. For the following 
reasons:
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the quality of the car.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneyway, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. This wasnt a 
new car so I would not expect it to be totally fault free.
Mr B reported faults with juddering very early on and within the first thirty days. Had he been 
able to evidence that juddering, the relevant legislation would have allowed him to reject the 
car. But the dealership, and a franchised dealership, were unable to find anything wrong with 
the car. So, I dont think there was evidence of a fault and I dont think Moneyway were 
wrong to refuse to take the car back.
Mr B subsequently provided a report from a roadside assistance company that identified a 
fault with the alternator and a discharged battery. I think, given the relatively short time Mr B 
had the car, it was likely any fault here would have been present at the point of supply. But in 
those circumstances the business would have been allowed to repair, and not reject the car. 
Mr B continued to complain about problems with the car and I think Moneyway were fair 
when arranging an independent inspection of the vehicle. As, given the fact Mr B had been 
in possession of the vehicle for such a short time, it was for them to demonstrate that the 
faults reported were most likely not to have been present when the car was supplied. 
That independent inspection failed as the oil level was too low for the inspector to carry out 
the necessary checks. Mr B hasnt been prepared to provide a further inspection report and 
in those circumstances as there is no corroboration of the faults Mr B reported. I dont think 
Moneyway have been unreasonable not to take Mr Bs complaint any further and I dont 
think they need to take any further action.
the test drive and potential pressure selling.
I can see that Mr B signed the contract over a couple of days and Ive not seen evidence he 
was pressured into the agreement. The broker has explained that a test drive was offered, 
and I think it was open for Mr B to arrange one should he wish to check the car out before he 
entered into the agreement. So, I dont think theres evidence to suggest Moneyway or their 
agents in the negotiations did anything wrong and Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman