DRN-3793807
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to provide him with appropriate, and 
timely, information as he considered taking his retirement benefits.
What happened
Mr R has been assisted in his dealings with Scottish Widows, and in making this complaint, 
by his wife. But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having 
been with, and from, Mr R himself.
Mr R holds pension savings with Scottish Widows. In February 2022 Mr R reached 60 years 
of age  the normal retirement age on two of his pension plans. One of those pension plans 
offered Mr R a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) providing his pension benefits were taken at 
that time.
Mr R first started to discuss taking his pension benefits when he requested details of his 
plans in September 2021. There were then extensive further discussions between Mr R and 
Scottish Widows in the following months. Mr R first complained to Scottish Widows about the 
way it had dealt with his information requests in December 2021.
In January 2022 Mr R asked Scottish Widows to provide him with an extension to his GAR 
whilst their discussions were ongoing. Scottish Widows confirmed to Mr R that it had granted 
a 90-day extension. But Mr R remained unhappy that Scottish Widows hadnt provided him 
with all the information hed asked for, and referred his complaint to this Service.
Whilst we have been dealing with Mr Rs complaint he has continued to ask us, and 
Scottish Widows, for information on his pension plans relating to matters such as the values 
of his pension savings, charges that have historically been levied and that might be levied in 
the future, and the derivation of bonusses that have been added, and might be added at a 
later date. Scottish Widows thinks that it has adequately answered all Mr Rs questions, 
although it accepts it will need to provide updated valuations once Mr R decides to take his 
pension benefits. But, in May 2022, Scottish Widows informed Mr R that he had now passed 
the time at which he would be able to take advantage of the GAR.
When Scottish Widows responded to Mr Rs complaint it told him that it didnt think it had 
answered all his questions, or dealt with his complaint, as promptly as it would have wanted 
to. So it paid him £500 for the inconvenience hed been caused. But, given it had agreed an 
extension to the date at which the GAR needed to be taken, it didnt think any delays had 
caused a direct financial loss to Mr R.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that 
Scottish Widows had reasonably responded to all of Mr Rs requests for information. And he 
thought Scottish Widows had allowed Mr R a reasonable period of time to consider that 
information and put his retirement benefits into payment. So he didnt think Scottish Widows 
needed to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr R and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It is entirely understandable that, when taking important decisions such as putting retirement 
benefits into payment , a consumer will want to be as fully informed as possible. In order to 
reach that position a consumer might seek information from their current provider, and 
potentially other providers in the market. And they might engage an independent 
financial advisor to provide them with advice, or recommendations, about the best approach 
for their circumstances.
Here Scottish Widows was only responsible for the very first aspect of that process  
providing Mr R with information about his retirement savings and how they might be used to 
give him an income after he had stopped working. But, and most importantly, 
Scottish Widows wasnt providing Mr R with any advice about his pension savings, or his 
options in the future. Those were decisions that he needed to take for himself since he 
doesnt appear to have initially engaged an independent financial advisor.
There is no doubt that the time taken by Mr R to put his pension savings into payment has 
been protracted. What I need to decide here is whether Scottish Widows is responsible for 
some or all of that time, and whether its actions have been reasonable.
Different consumers will often require different amounts of information before making a 
decision on how to proceed with their retirement benefits. For some consumers this will be a 
relatively straightforward decision  implementing plans that have been in place for a 
number of years before. But for other consumers, whether due to changes in their plans or a 
lack of earlier planning, that decision will be more complex, and potentially require more 
information and time. So I dont think it would be reasonable to expect a one size fits all 
approach in circumstances such as these.
Scottish Widows offered two distinct approaches for the provision of information to Mr R 
about his retirement options. It provided him with written quotations of how his pension 
benefits might be paid and written information about his benefits. And it provided him with 
telephone support from what it called its Retirement Journey Team. I can see that Mr R 
made extensive use of both options. And whilst at times there were delays to some of the 
information being provided, or calls taking place, I cannot reasonably conclude that Scottish Widows failed to give Mr R the opportunity to receive the information he was 
seeking.
Whilst the complaint has been with us, Mr R has detailed on a number of occasions the 
information that he thinks is outstanding. And at times he has added to the information that 
he is requesting from Scottish Widows. Ive looked carefully at what he has said 
Scottish Widows had failed to provide to him.
As I said earlier Scottish Widows is only expected to provide Mr R with information about the 
retirement benefits that were available to him. It does seem that Mr R also wanted forward 
looking information that might help him to decide whether to take his retirement benefits at a 
later date, or in a different form. I think there is a risk that providing that information might 
have led Scottish Widows towards overstepping the boundary between information and 
advice.
And some of the information that Mr R was seeking from Scottish Widows was commercially 
sensitive  such as how past and future bonus amounts might be calculated. I dont think it is 
unreasonable that Scottish Widows might be reluctant to provide that information to him.
Mr R also asked Scottish Widows for details of the charges that he paid on his pension 
savings. Charges information isnt an unusual request, so I can see that Scottish Widows 
produced, and provided to Mr R, a standard publication setting out how its charges were 
calculated and applied. Whilst I accept that didnt give Mr R the specific and personalised 
information that he was seeking, I think it did allow him to reasonably calculate how his 
charges had been derived, and what they might be in the future. I dont think it would be 
reasonable for Scottish Widows to provide personalised charges information to every 
consumer that requested it  I think it far more efficient to publish the basis of the charging 
structure in a standard format.
Mr R is resident overseas. So some of the retirement options that might be available to other 
consumers were not applicable to him. So whilst it might have been disappointing for Mr R, 
I dont think Scottish Widows was under any obligation to provide those additional options to 
Mr R. And although the options available on the pension plan might have been extended 
towards the end of 2022, it doesnt seem they were available at the time Mr R was first 
requesting information from Scottish Widows. I dont think the later introduction of the 
additional flexibility means that it is something that Scottish Widows should have discussed 
with Mr R at the outset.
Mr Rs pension plan benefitted from a GAR. But the terms of the GAR set out that it was only 
applicable if benefits were taken at the normal retirement age. Given the earlier delays in the 
provision of information to Mr R I think it was reasonable that Scottish Widows extended that 
period by 90 days to give Mr R the opportunity to consider his options. But I am satisfied that 
Mr R should have been in a position to proceed well before the extended deadline expired.
In summary I am satisfied that Scottish Widows provided Mr R with reasonable answers to 
the questions he asked about the structure and value of the retirement benefits that were 
available to him. Whilst I accept that Mr R doesnt agree that Scottish Widows adequately 
answered all his questions, I am sorry to tell him that I dont agree that is the case. And 
I think that the compensation Scottish Widows has already paid Mr R for the inconvenience 
he was caused by the initial delays in providing information is fair and reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman