DRN-3264360
The complaint
Mr A complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim about his boiler
under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr A has an annual service provided under the terms of his home emergency plan with
British Gas. He says the policy has been in place for many years. Due to the pandemic a
service wasnt possible in 2020. He arranged for an appointment for this to take place in
April 2021 but the engineer didnt attend, and no warning was given. A later appointment
was then agreed which took place in June.
In June 2021 the engineer reported the boiler as, immediately dangerous and it was
condemned. Mr A says parts of the boiler were heavily corroded and had been left in this
state due to poor workmanship from previous services carried out by British Gas. A further
engineer appointment was made for later the same day. This was to identify if a repair was
possible. The engineer didnt turn up. Mr A says he then contacted a local engineer who
fitted a new boiler within a few days.
Mr A wants British Gas to contribute to the cost of the new boiler due to its negligence when
carrying out previous services. He also wants compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by the lack of heating and hot water. And for the potential risk posed
by fumes from the faulty boiler, which should have been identified earlier.
British Gas acknowledged the missed appointments and offered £60 compensation. It added
a further goodwill payment for £75 in relation to the distress and inconvenience Mr A
experienced. The business says its engineer removed the flue sample point to take a
reading as part of the inspection. He found this was threaded and couldnt be wound back
into position. This meant fumes could escape from the boiler, which is why it was
condemned.
British Gas didnt think the issue with the flue sample point was apparent prior to its engineer
attending. It says this is something checked at each service. It says the last time it took a 
reading was around two years prior to this visit. The business says the boiler was 20+ years
old and this is something that can happen due to wear and tear over time. It says the flue
sample point was safely in position up until it was removed during the last service as part of
its checks.
Mr A disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his
complaint. He thought Mr As testimony was persuasive in indicating the flue point hadnt
been tested for some time during annual services. He thought the compensation offered for
the missed appointments was fair. But thought a further £100 was needed for British Gass
failure to identify a problem with the flue sample point during an earlier annual service.
British Gas disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the
complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I expect this will be a disappointment
to Mr A but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mr A explains that two appointments were agreed and not attended by British Gas
engineers. This is not in dispute. The first appointment was arranged to take place in April
2021 for the annual service. And then one in June that immediately followed the boiler being
condemned. From the information provided no contact was made by British Gas to tell Mr A
the engineers couldnt attend.
Mr A arranged to be at home to allow access for the engineers. This caused him
inconvenience. In the circumstances described I think the £135 compensation offered by
British Gas was fair to acknowledge the poor service.
I have thought about Mr As view that British Gas should have identified a fault with his boiler
earlier, had the flue sample point been inspected. Im not an engineer and must rely on the
expert opinion provided. I have read the handwritten report completed by the engineer when
the boiler was condemned. This says:
Flue sample point thredded unable to reconnect sample point.
A more detailed report from the same visit, including photos of the boiler has also been
supplied. This confirms the same information that the sample point was thredded and that it
couldnt go back on.
I acknowledge Mr As comments that the engineer told him the flue sample point was
corroded and had been left in that state for several years. Also, that if it wasnt for him doing
his job properly this time, poisonous gases could easily have leaked out into our home.
I dont dispute Mr As recollection of what the engineer said. But this isnt reflected in his
report. British Gas says it spoke to the engineer who says he didnt say the issue with the
sample flue point shouldve been picked up at an earlier visit.
I understand from the information British Gas has supplied that an inspection of the flue
sample point is conducted during each service. It maintains the boiler was safe until the flue
sample point was removed. Its because it couldnt be put back in place that there was a
problem. Prior to this the flue sample point was in place and the boiler was in a safe state.
British Gas says its engineers have their own ladders and equipment, which they are
encouraged to use, as it can ensure the safety of this equipment. Mr A says he supplied a
ladder at the engineers request to gain access to the flue sample point. I dont dispute Mr
As account of these events. But I dont think this reasonably shows that the flue sample
point wasnt inspected during previous visits that took place over the years.
In summary, based on the evidence provided I dont think Mr A has shown that British Gas
failed to report a problem with the flue sample point that could reasonably have been
identified earlier. Or that it was at fault when the damaged part couldnt be put back in place.
I think the businesses view is persuasive that its the age of the boiler that is the underlying
cause of this problem, and that the flue sample point had deteriorated over time.Having considered all of this I dont think British Gas treated Mr A unfairly with regards to the
work it carried out under his policy. I do think it treated him unfairly when its engineers failed
to attend appointments. But its offer of £135 compensation was reasonable. It should ensure
this is paid to Mr A if it hasnt already. Because of this I cant fairly ask the business to do
anymore to resolve this complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
British Gas responded to say it agrees with my provisional decision.
Mr A responded to say he had no further points to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas accepted my findings and Mr A had no further comments, so my final decision is 
the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary I thought British Gas had treated Mr A fairly when it condemned his boiler. And it 
had provided reasonable compensation for the missed engineer appointments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman