DRN-3489995
The complaint
Company E is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wouldnt reimburse the money 
they lost due to a scam. They say that the bank failed in its duty of care to protect them 
when they made the payment.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. 
Briefly, in August 2021, E was in correspondence with a builder to replace the glass windows 
and front door at their practice. Unknown to E, a fraudster intercepted their email exchange 
and sent a fake invoice to E. On the invoice it was stated that the builder had recently 
changed the bank account and so there would be a mismatch (of payee names) when 
setting up the payment, but there was nothing to worry and E should force through the 
payment. Following this, E made a payment of about £14,500. 
The following day E received another email asking to make a further payment for about 
£4,500 which E paid. When the fraudster then asked for a third payment, the director of E 
became suspicious and contacted the genuine builder and the fraud came to light. They 
immediately contacted their bank RBS who in turned contacted the recipients bank but only 
£0.90 remained in the recipients account.
E said that RBS should refund the money as it failed to protect them from the scam.  RBS 
didnt agree.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint could not be upheld. They said in summary:
The payments werent particularly unusual or suspicious for the bank to have intervened. 
When the payments were made, a warning message was provided to E. It said that the 
scammers can intercept emails and change payment details to get money (which is what 
happened here). It also said that once a transaction had gone through, it would be 
difficult to recover the money. 
In addition, there was a confirmation of payee message which alerted that there was a 
different name registered for that payees account number and sort code. The message 
said that this put E at the risk of being scammed and E should contact the payee using a 
telephone number that they know and trust, to confirm the details of the account. 
The bank acted quickly upon being notified of the scam.
As E wasnt eligible for Contingent Reimbursement Model code, the bank wasnt obliged 
consider their claim under the code. 
Taking all of the above into account, the investigator concluded that the bank could not have 
done more here. So, they didnt think it would be fair to ask the bank to reimburse E for the 
loss they incurred.
E did not agree. They said, in summary:
It is very unusual for the business to make one-off payment of this value. (So, this is 
something the bank could have noticed and intervened when the payment was made).
In scam cases of this nature, the victim was always technically going to authorise the 
payment but in reality they wouldnt know that the money is going to someone different to 
whom they had intended to pay.
If a mismatch in the account name and account number was so important then the 
customer shouldnt be allowed to override it. The bank could have done more here by 
preventing the payment from going through. Had it stopped the payment and contacted 
E, they in turn could have phoned the genuine builder and the fraud would have become 
apparent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what had happened to E. I can understand why they feel that as the
innocent party, they shouldnt lose out. But I dont think I can fairly say that RBS should 
reimburse the sum they have lost. Ill explain why.
It may be that E didnt know that the account to which they made the payment wasnt the 
genuine builders account. However, it is the case that they authorised the payment to be 
made to the relevant account. 
I have reviewed Es account statements for several months leading up to the scam. I see 
that it is a busy account and the company quite regularly makes faster payments. Whilst 
most of the faster payments are of lower value, there have also been higher value payments, 
as for example a payment of just under £10,000 in March 2021. 
Further, the disputed payment didnt consume all or most of the funds in Es account which 
might have been an indicator that they were at risk of fraud. The payment was to a new 
payee, but this alone wouldnt have given RBS much cause for concern.
I appreciate what E says but looking at the account activity overall, I am not persuaded that 
the payments were so unusual such that the bank ought to have intervened when they were 
made.
E also feels that the bank ought to have called the company as there was a mismatch in the 
payee name. The confirmation of payee system is set up to highlight such issues and the 
potential risk of going ahead with the payment. The message advised E to contact the payee 
using a telephone number that they know and confirm the details of the account. This 
together with my earlier finding that there wasnt any other trigger for the bank to have had 
concerns means that I dont think the bank ought to have automatically called E on this 
occasion.Irrespective of all of the above, on some occasions, it is possible to consider whether a 
customer is covered under the CRM code, and if so whether any redress is possible under 
the code. However, as explained by the investigator, E isnt unfortunately covered by the 
code. 
I have also considered whether RBS ought to have done more to recover the payment. I
can see that the bank immediately contacted the receiving bank on being advised of the 
scam. So, I am satisfied that they did what they could in order to try and recover the 
payment. 
It is clear that E is an unfortunate victim of a callous fraud. However, for the reasons 
outlined, I cant fairly say that RBS should have done more to prevent their loss. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask the bank to reimburse the payment made by E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman