DRN-3043415
The complaint
Mr H has made several complaint points against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires) in relation to how he was treated in connection with the arrears on 
his mortgage, including a potential fraudulent deed. 
What happened
Mr H has a buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. Mr H owned the property, but it 
was let out to tenants. Mr H says he has had several issues with Birmingham Midshires 
which he is unhappy about. He says he has been in constant communication with them over 
the years and has made some complaints about what he feels has gone wrong. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service in May 2019 after receiving several final response 
letters from Birmingham Midshires which he wasnt happy with. 
Our service issued a jurisdiction decision on 30 June 2021 explaining what parts of Mr Hs 
complaint points we were able to look into. We said we could look at the following points 
only:
Alterations and possible fraud in relation to deeds
Repossession action which includes:
- Birmingham Midshires taking legal action and deliberately deceiving Mr H, 
lulling him into a false sense of security
- Birmingham Midshires telling Mr H that nothing could be done to stop 
repossession action  even though he had an offer on his property
- Birmingham Midshires overall intention was to unreasonably take 
possession of Mr Hs asset which meant he had to take 16 days off work 
to seek advice of others and prepare his counterclaim
- Birmingham Midshires not accepting the offer Mr H made to them prior to 
the court hearing
- Birmingham Midshires taking legal action without communicating this to 
Mr H
- Mr H called to find out if there were any legal proceedings taking place 
and he was told there werent, when there were
- Birmingham Midshires deliberately sent repossession letters to the wrong 
address
We were not able to consider any of the other complaint points that Mr H made because 
they were either brought outside of the relevant time limits, or because they were not 
activities this service can look at. 
Mr H raised concerns about potential fraud on a mortgage deed, as well as a number of 
concerns (which are listed above) about how Birmingham Midshires have dealt with the 
repossession action.  In summary, he feels that it was always their overall intention to do so. 
Birmingham Midshires said that they were not responsible for the mortgage deed and Mr H 
would need to raise his concerns with the conveyancing solicitor. They said they had no part 
in the handling of the deed and if Mr H felt it was relevant, he should have raised it at the 
possession hearing. They also didnt think they had done anything wrong in how they dealt 
with the repossession action. 
Our investigator looked into matters for Mr H, but she didnt feel that Birmingham Midshires 
had acted unreasonably. But she did think that Birmingham Midshires overall 
communication with Mr H surrounding repossession could have been better  so she 
recommended that they paid £300 to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience he had been 
caused. 
Mr H didnt agree with what our investigator had said and said he would respond with points 
he wanted us to consider before the case was looked at by an ombudsman. After giving Mr 
H additional time to respond to the investigators view, he hasnt provided any further points. 
As Mr H didnt agree, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Mr H feels very strongly about this complaint and his submissions are 
very detailed. Mr H said he wanted to provide further submissions, but after giving him the 
opportunity to respond, and extending our deadlines on numerous occasions, he hasnt. As 
a service, we cannot keep cases open indefinitely and Mr H has provided enough 
information on various occasions  since our service received his complaint. I am now going 
to base my decision on the information that I do have. 
Mr H has submitted detailed accounts and information on what he has said has happened. I 
have summarised the complaint points briefly, in far less detail than has been provided. I 
have considered everything he has told us and if theres something Ive not mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Alterations and possible fraud in relation to deeds
Mr H said he raised concerns regarding alterations to the signatures on his deeds so feels 
the mortgage contract is not valid. He said Birmingham Midshires told him this was serious 
and required investigation by them, but they said it had nothing to do with them as it was the 
responsibility of the conveyancing solicitor.
Mr H has told us that the date at the top of the deed is 28 March 2003. He said the deed 
would have been signed before this date. He said it was returned to the conveyancing 
solicitor who added the date of 28 March 2003 and they should have filed it with the Land 
Registry on behalf of Birmingham Midshires. Mr H said as well as adding the date, its clear 
that someone amended the spelling of his name and added the witness signature (the 
solicitor), as well as a guarantors name which was dated some three months after the 
execution date on the deed. Mr H says this is illegal and it should not be possible to alter a 
deed after its been filed at the Land Registry. 
A conveyancing solicitor is responsible for ensuring that a mortgage deed is executed 
correctly. Lenders will use conveyancing solicitors and rely on their knowledge and 
expertise. Mr H has serious concerns and the allegations he has made are in relation to 
possible fraud which he believes has happened. He believes that Birmingham Midshires 
were trying to repossess his property over a fraudulent deed.Birmingham Midshires are not expected, nor is any other lender, to check or scrutinise the 
work that a solicitor has carried out. Birmingham Midshires would have acted on what they 
were told by the conveyancing solicitor which means once they were given the go ahead, 
they would release the funds for the mortgage.
If Mr H feels that the conveyancing solicitors have failed to complete and file the deed 
correctly, then he would need to complain to the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) who 
deal with complaints about solicitors. 
Mr H borrowed money from Birmingham Midshires and Birmingham Midshires are entitled to 
ask for that money to be repaid. We do not have the power to decide whether a mortgage is 
void, invalid or unenforceable  this is something that a court would need to decide. 
The bottom line here is that Mr H owes money to Birmingham Midshires and its secured 
against the property. If that debt is not repaid, its fair and reasonable for Birmingham 
Midshires to expect Mr H to repay that money, in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage contract which was entered into. 
Repossession action
Mr H has made a number of complaint points about repossession action on his mortgage, as 
Ive set out above. 
The points that Mr H is making are all interlinked, so I am not going to cover them all off 
individually. I will look at the repossession process as a whole, taking into account what Mr H 
has said above. 
Birmingham Midshires applied to the court in 2011 for a possession order as Mr Hs 
mortgage accounts were in arrears. A possession order was granted but they did not go 
ahead with possession at this time. In February 2019, Birmingham Midshires made an 
application to the court to enforce the possession order which was previously granted in 
October 2011. 
As at 8 February 2019, the balance on mortgage account one was as follows:
outstanding balance - £124,310.34
arrears - £13,303.19
last payment made on 3 February 2018
The balance on mortgage account two was:
outstanding balance - £17,418.03
arrears - £3,812.06
last payment made on 7 March 2018
Mr H has said that he wasnt made aware of the court hearing in February 2019. Having 
looked at the court order from October 2011, it states that the possession order shall remain 
enforceable for six years from the date of this order without the need for the claimant to seek 
further permission from the court. The court order was no longer valid as six years had 
passed but the possession order was already in place, so Birmingham Midshires made an 
application to the courts to see if they could use the possession order which was previously 
granted, rather than apply for a new one. There was no requirement for Birmingham 
Midshires to inform Mr H that they were going to do this. And if once the application was 
made, if the judge felt there was a need for a hearing, he could have ordered this  but he 
didnt. 
Mr H has provided us with a call from 6 September 2018 he had with a member of staff at 
Birmingham Midshires who told him that if Birmingham Midshires did decide to rely on the 
previous court order, he would be told. I have listened to the part of this call that Mr H has provided, and Mr H was told that he 
would be notified if Birmingham Midshires were going to try and use the previous possession 
order. While I do appreciate that Mr H was told this, there was no requirement for 
Birmingham Midshires to inform Mr H what was going to happen as they were merely 
applying to the court to see if they could enforce the previous court order. 
If Birmingham Midshires hadnt sought to use the October 2011 court order, and instead 
sought a new possession order, the legal costs surrounding this would have been much 
higher. But I accept that Mr H was told he would be notified so appreciate this would have 
been frustrating for him. But even if Birmingham Midshires had informed Mr H, it wouldnt 
have made any difference as it wouldnt have changed anything. The mortgage account was 
still in arrears and Mr H was not making his payments, so Birmingham Midshires would have 
still applied to court to enforce the previous possession order. 
The mortgage in question is a buy to let mortgage and the rules surrounding the actions that 
a business can take, and the process they need to follow, are different to those rules in 
relation to a residential mortgage. 
I have gone through the contact notes that Birmingham Midshires have provided to us, and I 
can see that there were attempts to contact Mr H in late 2018, but Birmingham Midshires 
were unable to do so. The notes also show that Birmingham Midshires needed to establish if 
the property was tenanted. As they were unable to speak to Mr H, they sent a debt 
counsellor to visit the property who confirmed that it was empty and up for sale. 
Mr H strongly believes that Birmingham Midshires had conspired to repossess his property 
by lulling him into a false sense of security. He said that he was in contact with them since 
February 2019, yet he was only told about the eviction in April 2019. I havent seen any 
specific evidence of Mr H being told about the eviction prior to April 2019. However, I dont 
think that this was a deliberate attempt to lull Mr H into a false sense of security. Mr H was 
not making his mortgage payments and Birmingham Midshires were entitled to ask for this 
money to be repaid. 
Mr H also said that the notice of eviction was sent to him at an old address and is another 
reason why he was unaware of the court proceedings. This is another reason why he 
believes Birmingham Midshires were trying to repossess his property without making him 
aware of it. 
Birmingham Midshires appointed their solicitor to act on their behalf. I have seen the contact 
notes which highlight that Mr H has told Birmingham Midshires that correspondence has 
been sent to an incorrect address. Its not clear from the notes as to what has actually 
happened here, but I havent seen anything that makes me think that Birmingham Midshires 
informed the solicitors to send letters to an incorrect address. There would be no logical 
reason for them to do this as they wanted their debt repaid and this would only have delayed 
matters. Ive also noted that the eviction notice was sent to the property address which had 
tenants in it at the time. This is a buy to let mortgage and Birmingham Midshires were 
allowed to do this.  
The eviction date was set for 30 April 2019. Mr H said he had an offer accepted on the 
property and that if he was evicted and the property repossessed, he would have been out of 
pocket. So he wanted Birmingham Midshires to stop repossession action because of this. 
Birmingham Midshires told Mr H that they would only cancel the eviction if he could give 
them a memorandum of sale or completion date. Mr H did put an application to court to get 
the eviction adjourned, to give him time to sell the property and I can see that the eviction 
was cancelled, and that the property was to be sold by 25 June 2019. However, the sale did 
not go through. During this time, Mr H hadnt provided Birmingham Midshires with either a 
memorandum of sale or a completion date. Mr H believes that had Birmingham Midshires agreed to cancel the eviction earlier, he would 
not have incurred additional legal costs. I understand the point that Mr H is making here. 
From looking at the contact notes, its clear that Mr H was in communication with 
Birmingham Midshires on quite a few occasions and he did appear to raise various other 
complaints with them regarding matters he wasnt happy about. 
Birmingham Midshires applied to the court in February 2019 to enforce the previous court 
order from October 2011. I can see from the contact notes that Mr H called Birmingham 
Midshires on 21 March 2019 to query his mortgage account. It doesnt look like he was told 
on this call that the repossession process had started. And from the notes generally, it 
doesnt appear that Mr H was told about this any earlier.
There is a call note from 5 April 2019 where Mr H was told on this call that they were waiting 
for an eviction date  Mr H said he wasnt aware of this. 
Mr H said he then spent 16 days of his time trying to stop the eviction and supplied 
documents to court to oppose the eviction. The eviction was then adjourned to allow the sale 
of the property to go through.
I do think that Mr H should have been told sooner about the eviction process and that 
Birmingham Midshires were starting repossession proceedings and I get the point he has 
made surrounding his costs. However, looking at the account history, and the amount of 
arrears that Mr H was in, unless Mr H paid off the arrears in full  Birmingham Midshires had 
the right to apply to go to court to enforce the possession order. Had Mr H of been told 
earlier that Birmingham Midshires applied to the court to enforce the possession order, 
because Mr H already had an offer on his property which he wanted Birmingham Midshires 
to consider and stop eviction, I think its more than likely that he would still have wanted to 
try and halt possession proceedings. So I believe his intention and actions would have been 
the same. He would still have incurred costs in order to do this so I cant say that 
Birmingham Midshires should cover the costs that Mr H incurred as a result of this. 
Looking at the mortgage statements, I can see that Mr Hs mortgage accounts were in 
significant arrears. There was only one payment made on each account in February and 
March 2018 but prior to that, nothing since early 2017.
The mortgage accounts were in arrears and I dont think it was unreasonable for Birmingham 
Midshires to continue with the eviction. I appreciate that Mr H had an offer on his property 
but there was no guarantee that the sale would have gone through and it transpires that it 
didnt.  Mr H also said he told Birmingham Midshires that he could arrange for his tenants to 
pay their rent directly to them, but if that was the case, Mr H could have done this himself too 
 but he didnt. So I dont think that Birmingham Midshires acted unfairly in this situation. 
As Ive said, this is a buy to let mortgage and support that I would expect Birmingham 
Midshires to have given to Mr H is different to what it would have been had it been a 
residential mortgage. Mr H was not making his contractual monthly payments for nearly two 
years. Mr H had to clear the arrears on the mortgage if he wanted it to continue or try and 
sell the property to repay the debt. The eviction was adjourned to allow the sale to go 
through, but the sale of the property did not happen. 
I think overall, and from looking at the contact notes provided, there were various people and 
departments dealing with Mr Hs account. I think that communication with Mr H could have 
been better and its noted that Mr H did raise numerous complaints about how his accounts 
had been handled. I also think Birmingham Midshires could have told Mr H sooner about the 
eviction process. I therefore agree with the £300 that our investigator has awarded Mr H for 
the trouble and upset he has been caused. 
The most recent information I have from Birmingham Midshires shows that up to July 2020, 
no payments have been made to either mortgage account. Mr H should engage with 
Birmingham Midshires to now agree next steps on repaying the outstanding balance. My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Birmingham Midshires) to:
pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not informing him 
sooner that the eviction process had started, and for telling him that no action would 
be taken using the previous court order, without informing him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman