DRN-4096649
The complaint
Mr C complains that Key Retirement Solutions Limited failed to arrange a lifetime mortgage 
for him.
What happened
In 2019 Mr C approached Key to discuss taking out an equity release lifetime mortgage on 
his property. After considering his circumstances Key recommended a mortgage and an 
application was submitted in early 2020.
The lender requested a valuation of Mr Cs property. A valuer visited in March 2020 but said 
that the property was unsuitable for lending because it was cluttered and couldnt be 
inspected properly  in particular, there was evidence of damp that needed further 
investigation. The valuation also said the remaining lease was too short.
Mr C said that the property was temporarily cluttered because he was storing items 
belonging to his parents. He removed the items and also instructed a contractor to address 
the damp problem. Mr C borrowed money to fund the works which he hoped to repay from 
the mortgage funds. A further valuation was carried out which valued Mr Cs property at 
£140,000.
The lender issued a mortgage offer and solicitors were instructed. Key recommended a firm 
Ill call G. It then came to light that Mr Cs property, which was leasehold, had a clause 
allowing ground rent to be increased over time. This wasnt acceptable to the lender, so to 
proceed Mr C would need to agree an amendment to the lease capping the ground rent with 
his freeholder. He also only had 49 years left on his lease at this point, so the lease would 
need to be extended too. G said that it didnt deal with leasehold extensions and couldnt 
proceed with the legal work for Mr C. 
Key then referred Mr C to another solicitors firm Ill call E. On Es advice Mr C contacted his 
freeholders and received an offer to extend and amend the lease. By then, however, the 
lifetime mortgage offer had expired. As it was now more than six months since the last 
valuation, the lender required another valuation to be carried out before it would consider 
issuing another offer. 
A revised lifetime mortgage offer was issued in October 2020. This valuation valued Mr Cs 
flat at £40,000 less than the earlier valuation  and this in turn meant the lender would only 
offer Mr C borrowing of £27,000 rather than the £37,000 which was in the original offer. Mr C 
appealed the valuation, pointing out that hed agreed a lease extension, and the valuer 
revised their opinion. The lender then increased the mortgage offer back to £37,000. 
Unfortunately by this time the freeholders offer to extend the lease had expired. So Mr C 
had to apply again. The freeholder made a further offer, but this time for a longer lease at a 
higher price. Mr C instructed E to go ahead, with both transactions completing on the same 
day so he could use part of the mortgage funds to extend the lease. 
There were then some delays in the lenders solicitors reviewing the draft lease. In January 
2021, the lenders solicitor replied pointing out some unusual features of Mr Cs lease which 
it was concerned meant that it might not be appropriate security for the lending. Mr Cs 
property is a flat in a small block divided into two separate freehold titles with no clarity over 
who was responsible for maintenance and repair of the building, as well as access rights. So 
further questions were raised with the freeholders solicitor. 
In the meantime, the lenders offer expired again, and it issued a new offer in February 2021. 
The freeholders solicitors replied confirming that they didnt consider there to be a problem 
with the lease and no amendments would be made. On that basis the lender was unwilling to 
go ahead, and the offer was withdrawn.
In March 2021 Key approached other lenders. Before making a formal application, it asked 
whether the lenders would accept Mr Cs property and leasehold. In April a new lender said 
that it did accept leases of this type, and so Key submitted an application to that lender. It 
didnt respond, so in June an application was made to a third lender. 
In July 2021 a further valuation was carried out. In August and September 2021 legal work 
was carried out. The new lenders solicitors asked for some amendments to the lease as 
part of the extension, which the freeholders solicitors wouldnt agree to. Eventually 
agreement was reached and in October 2021 Mr C signed the lease extension 
documentation.
There was then further delay, as the freeholders solicitors didnt return the lease extension 
documents. In January 2022, the freeholders solicitors told Mr Cs solicitors that they 
werent prepared to agree to the lenders requirements. Eventually agreement was reached 
by the end of the month, but by then the mortgage offer had expired again and a new 
mortgage application had to be submitted.
A new valuation was carried out in February 2022. A new mortgage offer was issued, but for 
a slightly lower amount than the previous offer, and with a special condition requiring a 
timber and damp report. Mr C had a report carried out in March 2022, which was acceptable 
to the lender.
In April 2022, the freeholders solicitor said that the lease extension offer had expired and a 
fresh valuation (for the freeholder, not the lender) would be required before a new offer could 
be issued. Mr C was required to pay for the valuation. In May 2022 the freeholder issued a 
new lease extension offer, at an increased price. 
In June 2022, the freeholders solicitors said that leasehold law was changing and as the 
leasehold extension had not been completed, the offer would be withdrawn, and new terms 
would need to be agreed. 
In August, the freeholders solicitors said that because of the change in legislation it wouldnt 
now agree a lease extension and Mr C would need to re-apply using the statutory lease 
extension process rather than a voluntary arrangement. As a result, E said it couldnt act for 
Mr C anymore as it couldnt help with this process. Key said that an application could be 
made to another lender, but Mr C would need to find another solicitor to help with the lease 
application first as it couldnt recommend another firm to him.
In September 2022 Mr C complained to Key. He said after nearly three years, several 
mortgage applications, and paying for valuations and solicitors, he still hadnt got a lifetime 
mortgage. Hed borrowed money on a short term basis to pay for the works needed in 2020 
and his bank was now calling in the money. He estimated he was out of pocket by around 
£6,000.Key said it was unfortunate Mr Cs application hadnt gone through. But it didnt agree it had 
done anything wrong. It said it had provided good customer service throughout, and tried to 
help Mr C through the various problems with his property and lease arrangements. It said 
that it had tried its best, and it wasnt Keys fault that Mr C hadnt been able to obtain the 
mortgage he wanted. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Mr C asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He said that Key had known about the lease from the start, as 
funding the extension was his main reason for applying for the mortgage. He said Key 
shouldnt have recommended G if they couldnt do lease extensions. He said he had paid for 
numerous valuations and works to his property to satisfy lenders without getting a mortgage. 
He said he had to do much of the work himself and was only kept up to date by being in 
touch with solicitors himself rather than receiving updates from Key. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out the history of Mr Cs mortgage application at some length above because I think 
its important to understand what happened when deciding whether Key was at fault.
But regardless of whether Key was at fault or not, that history shows that Mr C had a long 
and frustrating experience, incurring considerable expense, in trying to obtain a mortgage. 
He has my sympathy for all the difficulties he experienced.
However, I cant uphold this complaint because the process was difficult or frustrating for 
Mr C, or because he didnt get a lifetime mortgage at the end of it. I can only uphold this 
complaint if Im satisfied that Key did something wrong  and Im not persuaded it did. 
Ultimately the problem here was with Mr Cs property, and particularly the relatively unusual 
nature of the leasehold arrangements. The combination of that and the short remaining 
lease meant that there were limited options for mortgage lending. At the very least, the term 
of the lease would need to be extended  as Mr C himself recognised; paying for an 
extension being one of his main reasons for wanting a mortgage  but there were also 
concerns about matters such as the ground rent and maintenance obligations. 
It seems there were also some difficulties with the freeholder and their solicitors, and on top 
of that relevant leasehold law changed in the middle of the process. 
There were also problems with Mr Cs property itself  repair work was needed before the 
first valuation could go ahead, and a later lender wanted a report to confirm work had been 
carried out successfully.
Im afraid this is a case where Mr C was simply very unlucky. He had a property which 
needed work, and with an unusual lease arrangement. That limited the choice of lenders 
available to him, and meant that lenders who would lend needed reassurance first. All of this 
took time. 
It's standard for mortgage offers only to be open for a limited period of time. And the same is 
true of the freeholders offers to extend the lease. The unusual lease arrangements, and the 
need to involve multiple firms of solicitors, meant that the mortgage offers and lease 
extension offers expired at different times. And there wasnt a time when both were available 
together, because of disagreements between the freeholders solicitors and the lenders 
solicitors about what specific requirements would need to be included in the revised lease.Key did recommend G, the first solicitors firm, which wouldnt do lease extensions even 
though Key knew Mr C needed a lease extension. Key ought to have checked whether G did 
offer the services Mr C needed. But I dont think this ultimately made any difference. Even 
when E were instructed in place of G, the mortgage still didnt go ahead because the first 
lender ultimately wasnt willing to proceed when no agreement could be reached with the 
freeholder. That wouldnt have changed if Mr C had instructed E any sooner. 
Ultimately the problem in this case was that the combination of various factors  Mr Cs 
lease, the unusual terms and the disagreements between the freeholder and the various 
lenders, the maintenance problems with the property, the change in the law and in the 
freeholders willingness to extend the lease  all worked together to frustrate Mr Cs 
mortgage application. 
Its very unfortunate, and I do understand Mr Cs frustration. I also understand why hes 
unhappy with Key. He asked Key to arrange him a mortgage and after two years, 
considerable expense and a lot of work he still didnt have a mortgage. But Ive looked at 
everything that happened, and I dont think I can fairly find that Key is to blame.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman