DRN-1619251
The complaint
Miss K complains that her mortgage with TSB Bank Plc incorrectly fell into arrears because it 
provided misleading information about a payment due date.
What happened
Miss K had a mortgage with TSB on a standard variable rate (SVR). In December 2018 she 
arranged to switch to a fixed rate product. On 19 December 2018 TSB wrote to Miss K 
saying her new monthly payment of £374.34 would be due on 25 January 2019. 
In January 2019 TSB wrote to Miss saying that shed fallen behind on her payments. Miss K 
says that her account only fell into arrears because TSB didnt make it clear a payment was 
due in December 2018.
Miss K complained to TSB asking for the arrears and interest to be waived. She was 
unhappy that her overpayments had been allocated to her arrears balance. 
TSB didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. It said the first payment letter was specific to her new 
mortgage rate, which became effective in January 2019. Although it didnt mention her 
previous rate, Miss K pays her mortgage on a monthly basis and was still required to make 
her December 2018 payment.
Dissatisfied with TSBs response, Miss K bought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into things and originally thought the complaint should be upheld 
because Miss K received a letter pre-dating her December payment due date  stating that 
her next payment was in January 2019. He felt that because Miss K was switching from a 
SVR to a fixed rate, it wasnt unreasonable for her to think the switch would take place 
immediately at the time of application in December 2018, rather than in January 2019. 
TSB disagreed and provided a recording of the call between TSB and Miss K to set up the 
product transfer. This changed the investigators view. He felt the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld on the basis that it was made clear to Miss K that her new rate would take effect from 
January 2019. He was satisfied that Miss K ought to have known that her December 
payment was still due as part of her existing terms and conditions and nothing would change 
until the new rate took effect in January 2019.
Miss K disagreed. Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive listened to the call that took place to arrange the product transfer. During this call TSB 
said the product switch paperwork needed to be signed and returned by 20 December 2018 
so the new rate could take effect from the next month. TSB said that when the product transfer completed, it would write to Miss K to confirm what 
her future instalments would be. TSB wrote to Miss K on 19 December 2019. It said that her 
new monthly payment of £374.34 was due from 25 January 2019 and on or around the 25th 
each month thereafter. 
Whilst I do understand from Miss Ks point of view why she might have understood 
differently, it is difficult for me to say that TSB did anything wrong. I say this because the 
letter says that her new monthly payment would take effect from 25 January 2019. It does 
not say that her next payment was due on this date. It was also made clear to Miss K during 
the call that the new rate would take effect from January 2019.
In line with the terms and conditions of Miss Ks mortgage its clear that monthly payments 
are due. I havent seen anything to suggest TSB said a payment wasnt due in December 
2018. 
Because I dont think TSB has done anything wrong, I wont be telling it to waive December 
2018s payment. TSB has confirmed that as of February 2019 Miss Ks mortgage account 
was fully up to date and in fact in credit. Whilst I appreciate Miss K is unhappy that her 
overpayments have been applied to the arrears balance, I dont think TSB was wrong to do 
this. TSB has also confirmed that no information about late or missed payments have been 
passed on the credit reference agencies. So, Im satisfied that Miss K hasnt been unfairly 
impacted in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman