DRN-3680245
The complaint
Mr F complains that Contis Financial Services Limited failed to refund transactions he didnt
recognise.
What happened
Mr F was using an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) to withdraw cash and experienced
difficulties with the machine. He explained that at the time he was using it, a person was
near him and told him the machine wasnt working properly. Mr F had entered his Personal
Identification Number (PIN) to withdraw cash but the machine appeared to have retained his
card. Mr F was concerned about his card and entered the branch to ask about the ATM.
When Mr F returned to the ATM, his card wasnt present and within a few minutes there
were three transactions that had taken place at another merchant some distance away. Mr F
told Contis about the problem and they looked into what had happened.
Contis were able to say that the ATM dispensed £250 and declined to make any refund to
Mr F. He complained to Contis about their handling of the matter but Contis declined to
change their position.
Mr F then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information
about the complaint. Mr F explained what had happened and that he had mobility issues and
couldnt have visited the merchants in the time the three other disputed transactions were
used due to the distance away from the ATM. He believed his card and PIN were obtained
by the person who was near him when he used the ATM and they took the cash when he
went into the bank.
Contis provided some information about the ATM withdrawal, but no further evidence was
provided about the three other transactions. Contis referred to their terms and conditions
concerning security of the card and PIN for the three additional transactions.
After looking into the situation, our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She thought
that because Mr F had entered his PIN into the ATM, it wasnt reasonable to hold Contis
liable for the loss of those funds. But, the complaint concerning the three other transactions
was upheld.
Contis disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review, stating that
they were going to provide details of why they disagreed with the investigators outcome.
The complaint was passed to me and I asked both parties for further information. Contis
were asked to provide further details of the ATM transaction and authentication data
concerning the three additional disputed transactions.
Mr F sent in his response to my questions but Contis didnt provide anything further.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first matter I need to satisfy myself about is whether any of the disputed transactions
were authorised by Mr F, or not.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017
(PSRs). The basic position is that Contis can hold Mr F liable for the disputed payments if
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Contis can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr F authorised the
transactions, but Contis cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that
the payments were authorised.
Unless Contis can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Fs account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transaction concerning the ATM withdrawal. It shows that that transaction was authenticated
using the payment tools issued to Mr F. Also, Mr F confirmed hed entered his PIN into the
ATM, but for a different amount.
What that means here is that Mr F authorised a withdrawal from the ATM and whilst I
appreciate he then had difficulties with it which caused him a lot of worry, he still used his
card and PIN at the ATM. I dont think it would be fair to ask Contis to refund the withdrawal
made at the ATM, as the machine dispensed funds after Mr F used his personal security
credentials at the machine.
Regarding the additional disputed transactions, I havent seen the appropriate authenticationdata which Contis are required to provide. The PSRs (S75) are clear when it comes to
proving authentication of a transaction and the lack of this data would, on its own, mean that
Mr F would likely get a refund. Ive asked Contis for this data and explained the
consequences of not providing it  that being a refund on this basis alone.
Ive also looked more specifically at what happened, how Mr F described a person being
near him at the ATM telling him it wasnt working properly. Mr F believes it was that person
who saw his PIN and took the card and cash when he entered the bank to ask about the
problem at the ATM. Mr Fs story is plausible and taking into account his mobility issues, its
unlikely that he could have gotten to the other merchants in time to make these transactions.
Contis believed that Mr F breached his terms and conditions by not keeping his card and
PIN secure, which then led to the other three disputed transactions. In order to support their
assertion (that Mr F was grossly negligent), Contis are required to provide evidence (to Mr
F). As far as Im aware, Contis didnt provide Mr F with any supporting evidence. What that
means here is that Contis havent been able to demonstrate that Mr F was grossly negligent
when he experienced problems with the ATM and his card was taken.
Overall, I think Mr F was the victim here and his card and PIN were taken from the ATM.
That in itself isnt enough for Contis to show Mr F was in breach of his terms and conditions,
nor satisfy the requirements of the PSRs. So, taking the lack of authentication data and what
happened at the ATM into account, I dont think its reasonable for Contis to hold Mr F liable
for the three additional disputed transactions. Currently, I think its more likely than not that
persons unknown to Mr F took his card and used it without his permission which makes
these three transactions unauthorised.
So, because Contis didnt provide the necessary evidence about the authentication of the
three disputed transactions, Mr F would be due a refund on that basis alone because without
the authentication data, the transactions cant be treated as authorised. But, even if Contis
were able to supply that data, Im still of the opinion that the three transactions were the
result of persons unknown taking the card, after having observed Mr F enter his PIN into the
machine. 
Id still be of the opinion that they would be unauthorised as Ive explained above.
Im in agreement with our investigator about the redress required, which is a refund of the
three transactions and interest adding at 8% simple from the date the loss was reported to
the date of repayment. But, I also think the way that Contis dealt with his complaint led to
unnecessary stress and inconvenience to Mr F. Im intending to instruct Contis to pay Mr F
£100 to recognise the impact this had on him.I invited Mr F and Contis to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr F accepted my provisional decision and Contis 
replied with electronic documents that were unreadable. Contis were asked on several 
occasions to provide a response. Contis finally responded with a copy of their original file 
that Id already considered. Contis were given additional time to provide their information but 
nothing further has been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
Putting things right
Contis are required to refund the three disputed transactions to Mr F and add simple interest 
at 8% from the date of the loss to the date theyre repaid. Also, to pay £100 to Mr F for the 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  Contis Financial Services Limited are 
instructed to settle this complaint as outlined above.
For the avoidance of doubt, I do not uphold the complaint regarding the withdrawal made at 
the ATM.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman