DRN-4153011
The complaint
Ms H complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limiteds (HL) handling 
of her application for an annuity and says this caused her a financial loss.
 
What happened
Ms H was interested in using her pension benefits to buy an annuity, through independent 
financial adviser HL. She accepted a quote dated 25 October 2022 from an annuity provider 
Ill call S, which quoted an annuity rate of 6.85%. Ms H emailed the completed paperwork to 
HL on 28 October 2022. HL reviewed the application and ultimately sent it on to S.
Ms H called HL for an update on 22 November 2022, saying her current pension provider 
had told her it hadnt yet received anything. HL told Ms H it sent its annuity applications by 
post and its process was to wait for two weeks before chasing S. But HL passed Ss 
telephone number to Ms H. And when Ms H called S later that day, she says S told her it 
hadnt received the application from HL and the quotes validity period had expired. 
Ms H called HL back on 23 November 2022 to say she was unhappy it had posted her 
application to S instead of emailing it, and she thought HL wouldnt be able to process an 
annuity in a reasonable time given its practice of posting applications rather than sending 
them electronically. So she told HL she wanted to cancel this annuity application. 
Ms H went on to accept a new annuity quote with another provider through another financial 
adviser, but the annuity rate was lower. So Ms H complained to HL that it caused avoidable 
delays, particularly by posting her annuity application to S instead of sending it electronically, 
which meant she couldnt buy the annuity with S at the higher rate. She thought this had 
caused her a lifetime financial loss of around £14,000.
Ultimately, HL accepted it had taken longer to process Ms Hs annuity application than it 
would normally expect. It apologised for this and offered to credit £100 compensation to 
Ms Hs HL account. HL also accepted it had incorrectly told Ms H it had posted her 
application to S despite in fact emailing it on 14 November 2022, and offered Ms H a further 
£200 compensation. 
But HL said it hadnt caused Ms H a financial loss, because S had Ms Hs annuity application 
when she called it on 22 November 2022, and the annuity quotes validity period wasnt due 
to expire until 23 November 2022. But Ss backlog meant S likely hadnt processed the 
application. These backlogs were the reason HL didnt chase S until two weeks had passed, 
but Ms H had cancelled her annuity application before that point. So HL thought that if S had 
either processed Ms Hs annuity application when it received it, or searched for her 
application when Ms H called, then Ms H would have bought that annuity from S. 
Ms H came to our Service. She said HL was trying to blame S, but HL was paid a fee for its 
services. And HL left her thinking it would never be able to process her annuity application 
quickly enough to accept Ss quote, as it told her it sent things by post and not electronically, 
and it had asked her to verify her identity even though it should already know who she was.
Our Investigator upheld Ms Hs complaint. He said HL should have confirmed to Ms H in the 
call on 22 November 2022 that it had emailed her application to S on 14 November 2022 
and that S would extend the quotes validity date given its backlog. He thought that if HL had 
done this, Ms H wouldnt have cancelled her annuity application with S. He said HL should 
put things right by carrying out a loss calculation and adding 8% simple interest to any past 
loss this showed, and by paying Ms H the total of £300 compensation it had already offered. 
HL disagreed with our Investigator. It accepted it should have told Ms H it had emailed her 
application and reassured her that as long as S had received it by the validity date, shed 
receive the quoted rate. But HL still thought S had made errors that had a significant impact 
here - when Ms H called S on 22 November 2022 after speaking to HL, S shouldve checked 
its email and postal records for her application. Had S done so, Ms H wouldnt have 
cancelled her application with S.
Our Investigator didnt change his opinion, as he thought Ms H likely wouldnt have called S 
at all if HL had reassured Ms H as it could and should have on 22 November 2022. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Ms H has questioned what HL was doing with her application before sending it to S 
and suggests it shouldnt have needed to verify her identity. But based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Im satisfied HL was reviewing her application and carrying out the checks it was 
required to. And as part of this, it needed to ask Ms H for some more information. Given this, 
I think the two weeks or so HL took to process Ms Hs annuity application wasnt an 
unreasonably long time. That said, HL itself accepts this was longer than it would normally 
expect. So HL should pay Ms H the £100 compensation it has itself offered for this, and I 
note HL says it has already credited this amount to Ms Hs HL account. 
However, the crux of Ms Hs complaint is about HL posting her annuity application to S 
instead of sending it electronically. From the evidence provided by HL, Im satisfied HL sent 
Ms Hs application to S electronically on 14 November 2022. Ive also seen that HL emailed 
Ms H that same day, to acknowledge her completed annuity application and to say that S 
would add an additional 15 days to the validity period of her current quote. 
Ive listened to Ms Hs call with HL on 22 November 2022. Its clear Ms H was calling 
because she was concerned about what was happening with her annuity application, since 
her current pension provider had told her it hadnt been contacted yet. HL incorrectly and 
repeatedly told Ms H it had posted the application to S, even when Ms H expressed concern 
about that. HL also told her it wouldnt chase S until two weeks after the application was sent 
because of Ss backlog. And when Ms H asked what would happen when her quotes validity 
period expired, HL said S would send a new, updated quote. Given the nature of the 
concerns Ms H raised in this call, I think HL ought to have told her it had in fact emailed her 
application to S, and reassured her by emphasising what HLs email dated 14 November 
2022 had told her - that S would add time to her quotes validity period. 
Instead of doing this, HL gave Ss telephone number to Ms H so that she could call S. And it 
seems S told Ms H it hadnt received her application and her quote had expired, as this is 
what Ms H said to HL when she called it back on 23 November 2022. HL argues the 
information S gave to Ms H here was incorrect and was the reason Ms H cancelled her annuity application with S. And that S should have searched its postal and email records for 
her application. But HL had incorrectly told Ms H that it had posted her application to S, and 
it seems this is what Ms H relayed to S when she then called it. In any case, I think that if HL 
had given Ms H the correct information and reassurances it should have when she called HL 
on 22 November 2022 before she called S, then its more likely than not that Ms H wouldnt 
have gone on to call S about this matter at all. So, I think it was only because of HLs errors 
that Ms H came to call S. 
For completeness, I think HL also missed an opportunity to correct what it had told Ms H in 
the call on 22 November 2022. I say that because on 23 November 2022, Ms H called HL 
back to say she was unhappy it would only send annuity applications by post and wouldnt 
yet chase S, so she wanted to cancel her application with S. I know HL started both the 
complaint and cancellation process for Ms H. But I think it could also have taken this 
opportunity to tell her that her application had in fact been emailed to S and S would add 
further time to her quotes validity period. 
In summary then, I think HL didnt provide Ms H with the correct information and the 
reassurances it could and should have provided. Had HL done so, I think Ms H would have 
been reassured that her annuity application for Ss quote dated 25 October 2022 was 
progressing correctly, albeit taking a little longer, and that she would more likely than not 
have continued with that annuity application. So Im satisfied that but for HLs errors here, 
Ms H would have gone on to buy the annuity quoted by S on 25 October 2022.
Putting things right
My aim here is to put Ms H back in the position she would have been in had HL correctly 
informed and reassured her about her annuity application. As I say, Im satisfied that if HL 
had done this, Ms H would have gone on to buy the annuity quote from S dated 25 October 
2022.
Based on HLs evidence that S would add 15 days to the quotes validity date in order to 
account for Ss backlog, I think Ms Hs annuity with S would have been payable from 
8 December 2022. So HL should calculate:
Has Ms H experienced a Past Loss?
A) Total of all the notional payments which Ms H should have received from her annuity, net 
of her marginal rate of tax, from 8 December 2022 until the date of my final decision
B) Total of all the actual payments which Ms H has actually received from her annuity, net of 
her marginal rate of tax, from 8 December 2022 until the date of my final decision
C) Past Loss = A  B. If the answer is negative, theres a past gain and no redress is 
payable
In working out the net payments, HL should assume that Ms H was a 20% rate taxpayer  
our Investigator made this assumption clear in his view of Ms Hs complaint, and neither 
Ms H or HL has disputed this assumption.
If Ms H has experienced a past loss, HL should pay her this amount in cash. Interest
at 8% simple per annum should be added from 8 December 2021 until the date of my final
decision.
Will Ms H experience a future loss?D) The notional gross pension per year which Ms H should have been receiving from the 
date of my final decision
E) The actual gross pension per year Ms H currently will receive from the date of my final 
decision onwards. 
F) Future Gross Loss per year = D  E. If the answer is negative, theres a future gain and 
no redress is payable.
G) HL must then work out what it would cost to replace any lost income in F) by buying an 
annuity on the open market with these features. It will need to refer to published annuity 
rate tables and get a quote from a competitive provider.
H) The purchase price of the annuity found in G) is Ms Hs gross future loss. This should be 
paid directly to her as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid at her likely rate on the income in F  presumed 
to be 20%.
If payment of compensation for future loss is not made within 28 days of HL receiving
Ms Hs acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. Income
tax may be payable on any interest paid. If HL deducts income tax from the interest, it
should tell Ms H how much has been taken off. HL should give Ms H a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Ms H asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HMRC if appropriate.
Im satisfied HLs errors here caused Ms H some distress and inconvenience, because they 
left her uncertain and worried about her annuity application. And they meant she made an 
unnecessary call to S on 22 November 2022 and was caused some inconvenience in 
applying for an annuity elsewhere. Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied the total of £300 HL 
has itself already offered Ms H is fair and reasonable compensation for this. If HL has 
already paid Ms H the total of £300 compensation, I dont think its obliged to pay anything 
further. But if all or part of the £300 compensation is outstanding, HL should arrange for this 
to be paid to Ms H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited should put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman