DRN-3952173
The complaint
O a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account without 
providing a proper explanation. 
Os complaint has been brought to our service by its director Mr W.
What happened
O had a business account with Barclays. Mr W has explained that he used the account to 
receive payments from Os clients for services it provided and pay bills.
In October 2021, Barclays reviewed Os account. Following this, the bank decided to close 
Os account and wrote to Mr W giving him 60 days notice to make alternative banking 
arrangements for his business.
Mr W rang the Barclays and asked them to explain why it was closing Os account. Barclays 
wouldnt give Mr W much information and said it was closing Os account in line with the 
terms and conditions of its account. 
Mr W complained to the bank. He said the closure of Os account had caused him a great 
deal of inconvenience and upheaval. He explained that the banks actions meant he had to 
spend time rearranging Os financial commitments through another bank and a payment he 
was expecting was lost. In response, Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and had 
acted in line with the terms of the account.
Unhappy with this response, Mr W asked us to investigate Os complaint. He said the 
closure of Os account caused a lot of problems. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation about why it no longer wanted O as a customer and closed the account. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Os complaint. He thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr W disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. So, the 
matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W is upset that Barclays closed Os account. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it difficult for him to 
manage his business. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank 
has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
As the adjudicator has already explained, a bank can make its own decisions about who its 
prepared to offer banking services to. Barclays have said it made the commercial decision to 
close Os account. And this service wont usually interfere with a banks commercial 
discretion. Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclayss gave O 60 days notice. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and 
circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them, so, it was 
entitled to close the account as it has already done. 
Mr W has told us that he was upset to discover that Barclays intended to close Os account. 
Hes said he tried to find out what was happening with his account and why it had been 
closed. But Barclays wouldnt give him much information. I understand why Mr W wants to 
know the banks reasons behind its decision  it cant be pleasant being told youre no longer 
wanted as a customer. But Barclays is under no obligation to tell Mr W the reasons behind 
the account closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong 
by not giving Mr W this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do 
so. But I want to reassure Mr W that Ive looked at all the information provided by him and 
Barclays, and there is nothing that would lead me to conclude O has been treated unfairly. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest Barclays didnt exercise its commercial discretion 
legitimately.
In summary, I understand that Mr W on behalf of O, has been upset and inconvenienced by 
Barclays actions. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the bank has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reason Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman