DRN-3024392
The complaint
Mr D complained that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr D with a loan as follows:
Date 
BorrowedAmount 
BorrowedLoan Term Monthly repayment Loan status
29/09/2016 £3,000 36 Months £146.09 Paid  settled early in 
June 2017
Mr D mainly said that Bamboo had provided a loan that was unaffordable for him as he was 
living off £100 a month and so he needed to take out other loans. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and she recommended upholding it. She set out 
the steps Bamboo needed to take to put things right. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said that during the 
application process it conducted proportionate checks before approving the loan application. 
It told us that it didnt need to request any further evidence as Mr D showed good 
affordability and credit management. And although it didnt think it had needed to ask for 
bank statements at the time, having now seen these it didnt think they made any difference 
to its lending decision. Bamboo said that the loan was affordable whether or not Mr D had 
used it for debt consolidation and pointed to the fact that he had the loan for less than a year 
and made his repayments in full and on time.  
Mr D hasnt commented further. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled yet and Bamboo has asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator and Im upholding 
this complaint. Ill set out my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ds case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Ultimately, did Bamboo made a fair lending decision?
As far as I can see, Mr D hasnt objected to anything our investigator said in her view letter, 
so I have taken this to mean that he is happy with the proposed redress suggested. This isnt 
quite what Mr D said he wanted when he brought his complaint  but its in line with the way 
this Service expects lenders to put things right in these circumstances. So I dont think 
I need to say more about this. 
Like our investigator, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided this loan. Ill explain why 
I say this.
Bamboo asked Mr D some questions about his income and expenditure. Bamboo did its own 
checks, which included using an online tool to verify Mr Ds income. It obtained information about Mr Ds credit history and relied on statistical information about how much someone in 
Mr Ds position typically spent each month on basic essentials. Bamboo gathered 
information that showed Mr Ds take home pay was around £1,100. Using national average 
figures to reflect his living costs, plus the amount Mr D said he was paying towards his 
housing costs, and after also allowing for Mr D spending around £30 on his other credit 
commitments, Bamboo worked out that Mr D should still have around £572 spare cash. So 
the loan repayments he would need to make each month for his Bamboo loan looked 
comfortably affordable for him. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability of this 
loan before it agreed to lend. Mr D appeared to have only four active credit accounts, 
including one small unsecured loan with a balance of £130 and he owed £423 on his credit 
card. He had some available credit he hadnt used as he could borrow up to £450 on his 
card. I agree that his total indebtedness, which appeared to be £553, didnt look like it was 
excessive. 
But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr D based on the 
information it had gathered.
I say this because I think Bamboo should reasonably have realised that there were a number 
of features about this application that raised important questions it needed to know the 
answer to in order to make a fair, borrower-focussed assessment before providing the loan. 
I think that what Bamboo saw about Mr Ds credit history was significantly at odds with what 
Mr D had told Bamboo about his spending and his living arrangements. He seemed to have 
needed to use a lot of expensive credit over recent years even though hed been living at 
home. 
I dont think Bamboo thought carefully enough about what its credit checks showed about 
Mr Ds overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had calculated that he had 
disposable income of around £572 each month. This would suggest that he couldve cleared 
all his outstanding debt in just one month without needing to borrow at all. So I think Bamboo 
should have considered more carefully why someone with the amount of disposable income 
its checks suggested Mr D had would have needed to make use of expensive credit the way 
it could see Mr D was doing.
I think Bamboo should have been concerned to find out why Mr D seemed to be in arrears 
on his one small unsecured loan  it looked like he hadnt made any monthly repayments on 
that account for the last seven months although its affordability calculations suggested this 
shouldnt have been any problem for him. 
I think our investigator was right to point out that it didnt appear that Mr D needed all the 
money for the stated loan purpose of debt consolidation - unless there was other significant 
debt that the lender wasnt aware of from its own credit checks. Bamboo doesnt seem to 
know how Mr D actually planned to use the loan money and doesnt seem to have asked 
about this in any real detail. Even if Bamboo thought the reason Mr D gave for taking the 
loan sounded plausible and that it looked affordable for him in any event, bearing in mind the 
amount of the loan, I think that further checks ought to have been done to gain a deeper 
understanding of Mr Ds financial circumstances, particularly as he was signing up to make 
the loan repayments for the next three years. 
I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, Bamboo should have 
carried out a complete review of Mr Ds finances and done more to verify what he had 
told it .I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr D which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Mr Ds overall financial situation at the time. I've taken into account that 
Bamboo says this information wouldnt have put it off lending to Mr D. But I think, if Bamboo 
had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that 
this loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Mr D. 
I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
Bamboo had calculated, in reality Mr D had been using other high cost credit to boost his 
income. Whilst I accept this wasnt apparent on the credit checks Bamboo acquired, I think it 
will be aware already that different credit searches can show different results. So I think it 
shouldve understood that its own credit checks didnt necessarily show a persons whole 
credit record.  
I think, had it done a proportionate check, Bamboo wouldve discovered that Mr D had taken 
out loans with four other high cost loan providers in the eight weeks or so before this loan 
was agreed. So I think, as a responsible lender, Bamboo should have realised that this loan 
wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Mr D when he was already struggling to get 
through the month without needing to rely on credit. Proportionate enquires should probably 
have revealed the extent of Mr Ds persistent overdraft on his other account. And I think 
Bamboo would most likely have come to understand that this loan was a continuation of 
Mr Ds long established borrowing pattern and his over-reliance on expensive credit. So it 
shouldnt have provided it  especially bearing in mind that on the information Bamboo had, 
it gave Mr D a substantial surplus over and above the amount Bamboo thought he needed 
for debt consolidation.
And I dont think that providing the loan for debt consolidation meant it was fair to lend. 
Whilst Mr D could of course have applied part of the loan for this purpose (although I note 
that Bamboo didnt keep any control over this) Bamboos affordability calculations suggested 
he shouldnt have needed it for this purpose. So the effect of the loan was simply to add 
significantly to Mr Ds overall debt burden and extend the time he expected to be paying for 
it. 
All this leads me to conclude that Bamboo should not have provided the loan. 
The fact that Mr D repaid the loan early and made his repayments on time up until then 
doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a sustainable way. Mr D told us he borrowed from 
family to be able to do this.  
As Mr D became further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Bamboo did wrong. 
So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr D some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to 
take the following steps to put things right.  
Putting things rightIn line with this Services approach, Mr D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed when he took out the loan.
But he has had to pay interest and charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided 
to him  which isnt fair or reasonable. 
With this in mind, and as the loan has been repaid, Bamboo should: 
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of being given the 
loan (not including anything already refunded).The payments Mr D made should 
be deducted from this amount 
if this results in Mr D having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ds credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman