DRN-3152898
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt help stop a payment leaving his account. 
Mr R also complains that during a branch visit Lloyds called the Police which led to him 
being arrested. Mr R further complains that Lloyds then closed all his accounts. 
What happened
Mr R used his debit card to pay for insurance but quickly decided he didnt want to proceed. 
Mr R contacted the insurer but was told the payment would be refunded in around ten days. 
Mr R then contacted Lloyds as he wanted to stop the payment leaving his account. 
Mr R says he was told he needed to attend a branch of Lloyds. But when he visited, Mr R 
was advised Lloyds couldnt stop the payment but would be able to claim it back by way of a 
chargeback dispute. Mr R has explained he was given very inconsistent information about 
what Lloyds could do to help. 
Mr R has confirmed he refused to leave the branch. Lloyds says it was approaching closing 
time and Mr Rs refusal to leave the branch meant it had to call the Police. Mr R was later 
arrested and escorted out of the branch. 
Lloyds took the decision to close Mr Rs accounts which included his ISA. Mr R visited the 
branch again and requested cash to cover all funds held in his accounts (circa £40,000). But 
branch staff told Mr R that wasnt possible as it didnt have sufficient cash. Mr R has 
explained the Police were called again before he could leave the branch. 
The remaining balance was paid to Mr R a short time later and his accounts were closed. Mr 
R has explained he feels Lloyds shouldve given him information about the impact of closing 
his ISA account. 
Mr R complained and Lloyds offered him £30 because it gave some incorrect information 
during a call. But Lloyds didnt agree it had acted unfairly by failing to immediately reverse 
the insurance payment or close his accounts. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr R asked 
to appeal and said the staff he spoke with told him different things when he asked about the 
process of stopping a payment. Mr R also said he didnt want to leave the branch whilst he 
was unclear what had happened to his insurance money. Mr R also said Lloyds shouldve 
given him information so he could transfer his ISA at no loss. 
As Mr R asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of its process guidance setting out how it handles situations 
where a customer asks to stop a transaction. The process is that where a merchant (the 
insurer in Mr Rs case) doesnt immediately agree not to process the payment it cant simply 
be stopped. In that situation, Lloyds can raise a disputed transaction claim to obtain a 
refund. 
So whilst I can understand why Mr R wanted Lloyds to stop his payment, Im satisfied it 
couldnt. In line with what Mr R told Lloyds when he called, the insurer agreed to refund the 
payment but said the process would take around ten days. Im satisfied that Lloyds was 
correct when it advised Mr R it couldnt stop the payment funds debiting his account. 
Ive listened to all the available calls from around the time and its clear Mr R was concerned 
hed been charged for an insurance policy he didnt want. I can hear Mr R raise concerns 
that he wasnt called back as promised. Mr R was told Lloyds couldnt reverse a pending 
transaction and he explained hed go to branch to withdraw his funds. The call handler said 
Mr R could visit a branch to receive confirmation of the information provided. 
Mr R has explained that when he visited the branch he was given different information by 
different members of staff. Ultimately, Mr R was told it wasnt possible to reverse the pending 
transaction on the day. Mr R has confirmed he told staff he wouldnt leave the branch. The 
Police were then called and Mr R was removed from the branch. 
I understand Mr R was very dissatisfied that he was unable to resolve the payment issue in 
branch. But I dont agree it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask him to leave after it explained 
it couldnt do what he wanted. Mr R has confirmed he refused to leave the branch without 
the resolution he wanted. Given there was no way Lloyds could stop the pending 
transaction, I dont agree it treated him unfairly by contacting the Police to have him removed 
from the branch. Whilst I dont doubt this was a distressing experience, I havent been 
persuaded that Lloyds treated Mr B unfairly. 
Mr R asked Lloyds to see the CCTV recordings of his visit but it declined. Our investigator 
also asked for footage but it wasnt available. I understand why Mr R wanted to see the 
CCTV footage but I think its reasonable to note it wouldnt have included sound. So we 
wouldnt have been able to hear what was said by the parties involved. And Im satisfied 
theres enough information available for me to make a fair decision here.
Lloyds says it took the decision to close Mr Rs accounts following his branch visit. I 
appreciate this added to Mr Rs frustration, but Lloyds account terms allow it to end its 
banking relationship with a customer. As Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with its terms and 
conditions, I dont agree it made a mistake or treated Mr R unfairly by deciding to close his 
accounts. 
Mr R says Lloyds shouldve given him more information about the impact of closing his ISA 
to avoid financial losses. In general, the terms required Lloyds to give notice of its intention 
to close a branch. However, there are circumstances where accounts can be closed without 
notice. The terms says Lloyds can close an account without notice if a customer may be 
behaving improperly. I also think its reasonable to note that Mr R requested the full balance 
of all his accounts when he visited Lloyds. Im satisfied Mr R was aware he would receive all 
the funds he had in his Lloyds accounts and was in a position to decide what to do from that 
point. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. 
Lloyds offered Mr R £30 and said some of the information it provided wasnt right. But, 
overall, Im satisfied Lloyds did tell Mr R it wasnt possible to stop the pending transaction 
and that it would need to raise a disputed transaction claim instead. I havent found that 
Lloyds decision to contact the Police or close Mr Rs accounts was unreasonable. As Im 
satisfied Lloyds has dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already 
offered a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman