DRN-3547212
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay) lent to her irresponsibly when 
it gave her a credit card.
Mrs B is assisted in this matter by her son. But, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs B throughout.
What happened
Mrs B took out an Aqua branded credit card with NewDay in February 2020 with a credit limit 
of £1,200 and an APR of 29.7%. In summary, she complains that NewDay acted 
irresponsibly by providing her with the card as she wasnt able to afford it. She says that she 
applied under the pretence of earning £20,000 annually, but she actually hadnt been 
employed for a very long time and was receiving benefits at the time. Mrs B said that she 
has had to borrow money from family and friends to cover the repayments on the card, 
which has caused her anxiety towards the end of each month.  
NewDay reviewed Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think it had lent to her irresponsibly. It 
explained it was a second chance lender, and so its credit was designed to help consumers 
with a lower credit rating. In terms of Mrs Bs application, it said it checked the data she had 
provided against external credit file information. Overall, Mrs B had met its acceptance 
criteria and so it didnt think it had lent irresponsibly.
Mrs B remained unhappy with NewDays response, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt think NewDay had lent 
irresponsibly. He thought the checks it had completed at the point of application were 
reasonable and proportionate to the amount borrowed, which he thought was fairly modest. 
And, he didnt think NewDay needed to take further steps to verify the information it had 
seen.
NewDay didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mrs B did. In summary, she didnt 
agree that the credit limit was a modest amount. She reiterated that she wasnt employed at 
the time and was receiving benefits. She also pointed out that her credit file showed other 
outstanding debt, one of which was in arrears at the point NewDay supplied the credit card. 
And, there was a County Court Judgement (CCJ) which had been issued against her which 
was visible on the credit file, which she said ought to have raised concern with NewDay.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt think NewDay had completed 
proportionate checks and had it done so, I didnt think it would have lent to Mrs B. Mrs B 
responded to the decision. In summary, she agreed with the decision but also thought 
NewDay should pay her £300 for the stress she went through over the past two years 
because of this matter. She also explained that the outstanding balance had been sold on to 
a third-party debt purchaser.
NewDay also responded to the decision and, in summary, mostly repeated its earlier points. 
It also pointed out that Mrs B had provided incorrect information on her application to obtain 
credit. NewDay also said it was previously unaware that Mrs B was having trouble making 
repayments. It explained that it would have taken steps to help her manage the account if 
she had contacted NewDay about this.
Shortly afterwards, further correspondence was sent to the parties which explained that I 
was still minded to uphold Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons outlined in the provisional 
decision, however I had amended the redress I was recommending. This was mostly 
because it had come to my attention that NewDay had sold an outstanding balance on the 
account to a third-party debt purchaser. I also provided further clarification about how any 
adverse information should be recorded. Neither party provided any new information in 
response to the proposed redress amendment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision, or the 
amended redress I clarified in the subsequent correspondence sent. Ive explained my 
reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board all of the 
additional comments that both parties raised in response to the provisional decision.
The rules and regulations in place at the time NewDay provided Mrs B with the credit card, 
required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused. This means NewDay had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs B. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for NewDay to consider the likelihood of it getting the funds 
back  it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mrs B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent on a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they were seeking. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NewDay did what it needed to 
before lending to Mrs B. NewDay has outlined that it is a second chance lender. I have also 
kept this in mind throughout, however, its important I point out that it is still required to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure the lending is sustainably responsible.
NewDay said when considering Mrs Bs application, it took into account the information she 
provided on the application and also information held by the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs). Based on this, it gathered that Mrs B was: employed and earning an annual income 
of £20,000, had unsecured debts of £1,000, had no defaults, had no records of any pay day 
loans, had one account in arrears and one public record which was recorded 25 months ago.
Having thought about this carefully, I think NewDay should have ensured that the scope and 
extent of its checks were adapted to the circumstances of Mrs Bs application. This was an 
application where NewDay was aware Mrs B had an outstanding CCJ for £1,600. This 
should have acted as a flag that if she wasnt able to satisfy that debt, then she might not be 
able to sustainably afford to repay the credit it was intending to provide her with. NewDay 
has also noted that Mrs B was in arrears on another credit card the month prior to her 
application with NewDay. This should have prompted NewDay to look more closely at Mrs Bs financial circumstances and carry out borrower-focused checks to satisfy itself that 
the credit would be sustainably affordable for her. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Had NewDay completed further checks, and obtained more information about Mrs Bs 
income and expenditure, it would have seen that Mrs B was receiving benefits of around 
£935 each month, with no other regular income, contrary to what she had inputted in her 
application. Mrs B has told this service that her rent and household bills amounted to 
approximately £833 each month  made up of £567 for rent and around £266 for household 
bills. Whilst most of these payments dont show on Mrs Bs bank statements, she has told 
this service that these were paid using a payment card, which she loaded cash onto. Having 
reviewed Mrs Bs statements, her cash withdrawals in the three months prior to opening the 
NewDay card support this and so, on balance, I find this plausible.
So, had NewDay completed further checks, it would have seen that Mrs B would have been 
left with just over £100 each month, not considering money for food or other essential 
spending. In addition, Mrs Bs credit report shows that she had at least two other credit cards 
open at the time NewDay lent to her, one of which was in arrears. Mrs B said she paid the 
minimum monthly payments on these cards using bank giros, and therefore also in cash. So 
had NewDay completed further checks, it would have seen that overall, Mrs B was already 
left with very little disposable income at the time it lent to her.
Ive considered that Mrs B declared that she was employed earning an annual income of 
£20,000, when this wasnt the case. However, this doesnt change my conclusion that 
NewDay needed to ensure it fulfilled its obligation to carry out proportionate checks before 
lending. And, in the circumstances of this particular case, I think the information it saw on 
Mrs Bs credit file should have prompted it to carry out further checks into her wider financial 
circumstances. Had it done so, I dont think it would have lent to Mrs B. So, Ill need to next 
think about how it puts matters right.
Fair compensation  what NewDay should do to put things right
In most cases where credit has been provided where it shouldnt have been, it would be fair 
and reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower, plus 
interest. And, the borrower would usually be expected to repay any remaining amount of the 
money they had been lent. So, Id expect Mrs B to pay back the money she was lent, but not 
the interest.
Ive considered that in response to the provisional decision, Mrs B has asked for additional 
compensation, in the region of £300 because of the stress the matter has caused her over 
the past two years. Whilst I dont dispute this matter would have been stressful for Mrs B, Im 
not persuaded further compensation is due here. I say this because Ive not seen enough to 
persuade me that NewDay has treated Mrs B so unreasonably, so as to require 
compensation over and above a refund of the interest and charges she paid.
With this in mind, NewDay should put things right for Mrs B by doing the following:
Reworking Mrs Bs credit card balance so that any interest, fees and charges 
applied to it are removed.
ANDIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made NewDay should contact Mrs B to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. Any adverse information recorded should remain until any outstanding 
balance is cleared.   
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NewDay should remove any adverse information, it is responsible for recording, 
from Mrs Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
NewDay sold an outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt purchaser. 
NewDay will need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make the 
necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third-party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Mrs B an amount to reflect the above to ensure that it fully 
complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should settle Mrs Bs complaint in the way that Ive outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman