DRN-2676908
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has not properly compensated him 
for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C complained to Barclays in August 2019 about a PPI policy attached to his credit card.
In April 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr C. In its letter it agreed to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Barclays said the PPI policy was taken out in October 1999. It offered to refund Mr C the 
premiums he was charged for the PPI and interest he was charged because of the PPI. 
Barclays also added compensatory interest. In total Barclays offered, and paid, Mr C 
£1,929.19.
Mr C remained unhappy with Barclays offer. Mr C said he could recall taking out the 
Barclays credit card in the 1980s and he was sure it had PPI attached to it. So Mr C believes 
he paid PPI premiums for much longer than Barclays has said.
An adjudicator from this service thought Barclays offer was fair. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked at the way Barclays calculated the compensation.
Where a business is found to have mis-sold a PPI policy Id expect it to put the consumer, as 
far as possible, back in the financial position they would be in if the PPI had not been sold. 
To do this Id expect the business to refund all the PPI premiums paid together with any 
interest or charges incurred because of the PPI. And the business should pay compensatory 
interest calculated at 8% simple for the time theyve been out of pocket.
In this case Barclays says the PPI was added to Mr Cs credit card in October 1999. It says 
he was charged £819.97 in premiums and £132.79 interest. Barclays also says Mr C 
incurred charges of £88.00 because of the PPI. And it has refunded all this to Mr C. Barclays 
also added compensatory interest of £1,110.53. Barclays has to deduct tax from this interest 
which was £222.10. So in total Barclays paid Mr C £1,929.19.
When it made its calculations, Barclays made assumptions about the PPI premiums Mr B 
paid before May 2001. This is because it no longer holds detailed statement data from 
before May 2001. I dont find this surprising or unusual. I wouldnt expect a business to 
maintain detailed records indefinitely. But I would expect a business to make reasonable 
assumptions about the missing data when making its calculations. 
In this case Barclays has taken the average balance for Mr Cs account for the first 12 
months it has data . And it has based its assumptions for the missing period of time on this 
average. In my view this is a fair and reasonable approach to take when there is no 
information available about Mr Bs credit card balance or the PPI premiums he paid.
So based on Mr Cs PPI policy beginning in October 1999 I think Barclays has calculated the 
compensation fairly and in the way Id expect.
But Mr C says he held his credit card from the mid-1980s and he says the PPI was present 
on his account from the start. So Mr C thinks he was charged many more PPI premiums 
than Barclays has refunded.
Ive thought carefully about this.
Barclays records do indeed show that Mr C first took out a Barclays credit card in 1984. 
But Barclays internal records show that Mr C upgraded his credit card in October 1999 and 
the records show that the PPI policy was added at that time.
Ive looked carefully at screenshots of Barclays internal records and I can see no evidence 
that a PPI policy was in existence before the card was upgraded in 1999. And unsurprisingly, 
given the time that has passed, Mr C hasnt been able to find any old statements from before 
October 1999 that might have shown a PPI premium.
Taking everything into account, without any more persuasive evidence, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to find that another PPI policy existed on Mr Cs account before the one that 
was sold to him in October 1999.
In summary, I think its most likely the PPI policy began in October 1999, and I think Barclays 
has calculated the compensation fairly , using reasonable assumptions for the periods when 
it has no detailed statement data.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman