DRN-2416031
The complaint
 Mr C says TM Advances Limited didnt complete proper checks to make sure the loans it 
gave him were affordable. 
What happened
 Mr C took out three instalment loans from TM Advances as set out below. 
Loan Taken Repaid InstalmentsValue, 
£Monthly 
repayment, £
1 08/04/2016 04/10/2016 24 1500 173.75
2 04/10/2016 18/09/2017 24 2000 215
3 18/09/2017 28/08/2020 36 3000 255.83
Mr C says TM Advances shouldnt have lent to him as its loans meant he had to borrow 
again.TM Advances says it considered Mr Cs income, expenditure and existing credit 
commitments as shown on his credit file. These checks showed the loans were affordable 
for Mr C.
Our adjudicator disagreed and said loans 2 and 3 should not have been given. He said from 
the information TM Advances gathered as part of its credit checks it should have seen that 
the second and third loans were not sustainably affordable for Mr C.
TM Advances disagreed saying the loan repayments were affordable for Mr C; all payments 
were met on time and no proof of hardship was provided. So the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when TM Advances lent to Mr C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TM Advances had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr C. In other words, it wasnt enough for TM Advances to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TM Advances did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr C. This means in reaching my conclusion I have considered the 
following questions:
- did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Cs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay 
the loans in a sustainable way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did TM Advances make a fair lending decision?
- did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TM Advances asked for some information from Mr C before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income, normal monthly living costs (rent, living costs, car and childcare costs) 
and any contribution from his partners income to joint monthly costs. It also checked Mr Cs 
credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. And 
finally it asked about the purpose of the loans. In each case this was debt consolidation, plus 
some car repairs at the time of loan 2. From these checks combined TM Advances 
concluded Mr C had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay each loan.
I think these checks were proportionate for loan 1. At the time of the first loan TM Advances 
calculated that Mr Cs had disposable income of £1061, and there was nothing on the credit 
check that I think meant it shouldve done further checks or made a different lending 
decision. Whilst the credit check showed Mr C had a number of loans outstanding, he had 
confirmed to TM Advances that the purpose of loan 1 was to settle them.
However, when Mr C applied for loan 2 he was six months into the 24-month term of loan 1. 
He was applying for a higher value loan. And TM Advances knew from the credit check it 
completed that his level of indebtedness had increased around three-fold to a value of 
£6,026. It could also see that he had taken out another five loans since getting loan 1, in 
addition to one line of revolving credit. So based on the information it gathered I dont think TM Advances made a fair lending 
decision. From the pattern of Mr Cs borrowing I think it ought to have realised he was 
becoming increasingly reliant on credit to meet his ongoing needs. The increase in the value 
of loan 2 was further evidence of this. 
At the time Mr C applied for loan 3 the results from the credit check TM Advances carried out 
showed that his level of indebtedness had further increased to £26,285, and he had taken 
out over 20 loans in the prior 12 months. Again the value of the loan had increased, and 
again he was needing to refinance his previous loan. 
I think it was obvious at this stage that Mr Cs financial situation was such that giving him 
another loan was most likely to add to his financial difficulties. By loan 3 Mr C had been 
indebted to TM Advances for about 17 months and was asking to borrow twice as much as 
his first loan. Despite two previous loans taken out for the purpose of debt consolidation, it 
doesnt seem that he was managing to move away from a need for higher cost credit. And 
by agreeing this loan TM Advances prolonged his indebtedness, potentially for another three 
years. In addition, the number of times hed borrowed from TM Advances and the amount he 
was now borrowing was likely to restrict his access to mainstream credit, potentially keeping 
him - to his detriment - in the market for higher cost loans. 
TM Advances argues Mr C made all his repayments on time and it has now checked his 
bank statements that show the loans were affordable. But as he had to refinance both loans 
1 and 2 and borrow from other lenders, I dont think it can fairly conclude that he made his 
repayments sustainably. The relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. CONC 5.3.1G states:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
So, in summary, I dont think TM Advances made fair lending decisions using the information 
it had gathered when it gave loans 2 and 3 to Mr C. It follows I think he has lost out as result.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr C to have repaid the capital that he borrowed, because 
he had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on two loans that 
shouldnt have been provided to him. So TM Advances should:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2 and 3
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled
C) pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3.* HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM Advances must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
 I am upholding Mr Cs complaint with regards to loans 2 and 3. TM Advances Limited must 
now put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman