DRN-3113700
The complaint
Miss S has complained about MCE Insurance Limiteds decision not to change the collection
date for her monthly premium under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S bought a car insurance policy with MCE in December 2020 and pays for it in monthly
instalments under a credit agreement. In December 2020 Miss S was charged a late
payment fee by MCE as it couldnt collect the monthly premium from her account. The
collection date is 20th of each month.
Miss S complained to MCE. She said she asked it to change the collection date to 21st of
each month, but it had refused. She explained to MCE that her wages are paid into her
account on 20th of each month but she cannot guarantee the time. She thought it was unfair
that MCE wouldnt change the date and said she was likely to be charged a late payment fee
for future months as the same thing was likely to happen.
In February 2021 MCE said it would waive the late payment fee for the December 2020
payment as a goodwill gesture . It said it didnt collect the January payment on time due to a
technical error and so it waived the late payment fee for January 2021 too.
MCE said it couldnt change the collection date  this was something it made Miss S aware
of before she bought the policy.
Miss S remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought it
was unreasonable of MCE to not change the collection date to the 21st of the month. She
understood Miss S had been charged a late payment fee in June 2021.
MCE said the June payment issue was after it had replied to Miss Ss complaint. So it didnt
think we should consider this. It said it had acted correctly  and Miss S had been able to
pay the premiums on time from February 2021 to May 2021.
Our investigator explained that the issue about future payments was part of Miss Ss original
complaint  and so she considered it fair to include the June late payment charge in her
investigation. She recommended Miss Ss complaint should be upheld and for the distress
and inconvenience caused MCE should pay £100 compensation. The investigator thought it
unfair for MCE not to change the collection date.
MCE didnt agree. It said we have upheld a similar case. As Miss S agreed to their terms
and conditions before she bought the policy, MCE doesnt agree it has done anything wrong. 
So it asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 September 2021. I thought MCE had acted reasonably 
and in line with the policy terms. So I didnt intend to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
I havent received a response from either party to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision. 
MCE has provided a screenshot example of the terms and conditions Miss S would have
seen online for the credit agreement. A copy of the screenshot was attached to my 
provisional decision to Miss S. Miss S needed to agree to the terms and conditions of the 
credit agreement before buying the policy with MCE.
The terms of the credit agreement clearly set out that the date cannot be changed once the
payment plan is active.
Ive been able to check the terms and conditions from 2020 when Miss S bought the policy
with MCE to support the screenshot provided and I also looked at what MCEs website 
currently says. Links to both were provided in my provisional decision.
Under both, MCE says that it cannot change the payment date to a payment plan.
While I dont think Miss Ss request to MCE to change the date was unreasonable, I think
MCE made Miss S aware before she bought the policy that it wouldnt be able to do this.
So I cant say that MCE has been unreasonable to Miss S. And this therefore means I dont
think it is responsible for any late payment fees Miss S may have had to pay for missing any
payments due on 20th of each month.
MCE offered Miss S the option to cancel her policy and set up a new one. I would consider
this reasonable at the time provided MCE didnt intend to charge Miss S any cancellation
fees or record the cancellation.
I am sorry to disappoint Miss S. But based on the information Ive seen, Im not upholding 
her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman