The complaint
Mrs D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. 
Where a complaint is about a claim under a policy, we treat it as a complaint against the 
insurance company that was responsible for dealing with the claim. In our final decision we 
name that company but we dont name any other party.
Mrs D had a policy in the name of a home assistance company. It was subject to a policy 
excess. The policy didnt cover sludge, scale or rust within the system.
Aviva was the insurance company responsible for dealing with a claim. Where I refer to 
Aviva I include the home assistance company and others for whose actions I hold Aviva 
responsible.
In October 2019 Mrs D called for help with her central heating boiler. So she was making a 
claim under the policy.
She complained that Aviva incorrectly cut off her boiler and then gave her further poor 
service.
By a final response letter dated 3 January 2020, Aviva offered Mrs D £500.00 compensation. 
Unhappy with that, Mrs D brought her complaint to us later that month.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
offer of £500.00 was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that we should assess compensation separately for 
cutting off her boiler and for other poor service such as making marks on her carpet.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Boiler issue
DRN-1694333On the first visit, Aviva reported that the pilot light wasnt working. So I think Mrs D was 
already without a working boiler. 
Aviva categorised the boiler as immediately dangerous as there was no access to the flue 
in a sealed chimney. Aviva said Mrs D should get some bricks removed from the chimney. 
Aviva also said she might need a new boiler. I accept Mrs Ds statement that Aviva also cut 
off the gas pipe.
All that caused unnecessary upset and inconvenience. Aviva visited again the following day 
and agreed the boiler wasnt dangerous. It fixed the boiler fault.
Later issues
The final response letter accepts that the second engineer damaged some TRVs 
(thermostatic radiator valves). Mrs D also reported some cold spots on her radiators. At first 
Aviva said that, before another visit, she would need to pay the policy excess. But Aviva 
agreed to waive this.
Aviva missed two appointments for which Mrs D had taken time off work. Then Aviva didnt 
have the right parts to fix the problem with the radiators. I accept that Mrs D and her 
daughter had to chase for updates.
I accept Mrs Ds statement that Aviva made marks on her carpet.  Aviva says it resolved the 
radiator problem on 23 December 2019. 
Mrs D says Aviva told her she needed a new part in her airing cupboard. She says that 
wasnt correct and she was without heating until early January 2020 when an independent 
engineer fixed the problem by flushing her system.
However, I find that the only likely cause of the need for a flush was sludge or scale. The 
policy didnt cover that. So Mrs D wouldve had to arrange and pay for a flush in any event.
Overall I accept that Avivas service fell below a reasonable standard and caused Mrs D 
distress and inconvenience.
But Aviva offered £500.00 compensation. And thats more than I wouldve found fair and 
reasonable if Aviva hadnt offered that amount. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Aviva to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman