DRN-1721623
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have 
declined their commercial property insurance claim for storm damage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a commercial property owners insurance policy with LV in June 2017. 
Following a storm in August 2018, Mr and Mrs P noticed damage to the front of their 
property, specifically to the lintels. In September 2018 they made a claim to LV. LV 
appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. 
Having inspected the damage, the loss adjuster declined the claim. He noted that the lintels 
shouldve been of steel construction but instead had been made of brick. He noted that their 
exposure to the elements over time had resulted in their collapse. He thought the collapse 
was the result of poor workmanship/construction defect and not the result of the storm so he 
declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with LVs decision so they complained. Having themselves 
arranged to have the repairs carried out they sent LV all the invoices (which totalled 
£19,616.07) from the contractors that had attended. They also sent LV reports from their 
contractors about the cause of damage. Mr and Mrs P said their claim for storm damage was 
a genuine one that they wanted settled and they said LVs loss adjuster had incorrectly and 
falsely declined their claim. 
LV asked its loss adjuster to review his decision in light of the information received from Mr 
and Mrs P. He noted that the documents suggested the damage was due to general 
weathering over time due to the exposure of the lintels to the elements. He also noted that 
one of the reports said the damaged lintels were a design fault. The loss adjuster said that 
such damage wasnt covered by Mr and Mrs Ps policy so the claim remained declined. 
LV considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and issued its final response letter in June 2019. 
LV said that the lintel damage had been caused by weather conditions but to be covered by 
the policy it needed to have been caused by a single insured event such as a one-off storm. 
It noted that the weather on the date in question couldnt be said to constitute a storm and 
that it had merely highlighted pre-existing issues where the lintel had been exposed over 
years and water had been able to ingress allowing it to break down and eventually collapse. 
LV said it had also considered whether the claim could be considered under the accidental 
damage cover provided by the policy. But there was a design fault in that the lintels 
shouldve been made of steel and damage that was the result of faulty design was excluded 
from cover.
Unhappy with LVs findings, Mr and Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator 
looked into their complaint but didnt think that LV had unfairly or unreasonably declined their 
claim. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our investigators findings. They said the contractor that 
had installed the new steel lintels had said the damage to the lintel had been caused by it 
being exposed to weather or storm damage not wear and tear. They said another contractor 
had said the damage had been caused by inclement weather. They said before the storm in 
August 2019 there was no structural damage to their building. So, they maintained the claim 
had been wrongly declined. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether LV has unfairly or unreasonably declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim. I 
dont think it has; Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a property sustains will be covered by a property insurance policy. Only 
damage thats the result of one of the one-off insured events listed in the policy  storm, fire, 
theft, escape of water etc.  is covered. If the policyholder can show that the damage 
claimed for is covered by one of the events listed in the policy then the insurer must pay the 
claim unless it can rely on one of the exclusions in the policy to defeat the claim. 
Here, Mr and Mrs P claim that the damage sustained to their lintel was the result of a storm 
that occurred on 26 August 2018. At this service we have an established approach to 
considering complaints about storm damage claims. We ask three questions: 
Was there a storm?
Is the damage consistent with the type of damage a storm typically causes?
Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
In order for us to find that an insurer had unfairly and unreasonably declined a storm 
damage claim the answer to all three questions must be yes. Damage thats been 
highlighted by a storm  rather than caused by it  isnt covered. 
Ive seen the weather report for Mr and Mrs Ps neighbourhood on the date in question. 
There was heavy rain and gusty winds but not of a speed that could be said to constitute a 
storm. As there were no storm conditions present around the time of damage the answer to 
the first question is no. As there were no storm conditions the damage cant have been 
caused by a storm. So, Mr and Mrs Ps claim falls at the first hurdle. Inclement weather, 
heavy rain and gusty winds (below a certain speed) unfortunately cant be classified as a 
storm. 
As the answer to question 1 is no, I dont need to go on to consider the answers to 
questions 2 and 3. It follows that I dont think that LV has declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim for 
storm damage. 
I can see that LV also thought about whether the damage could be considered under any of 
the other insured events listed in the policy; specifically it looked at the accidental damage 
peril. That peril covers the property for damage caused to buildings accidentally except in 
certain excluded circumstances. One such exclusion is where the damage is the result of 
fault or defective design or materials. Another is where damage is the result of deterioration 
and wear and tear. 
The loss adjuster thought the collapsed lintel was the result of poor workmanship, namely a 
construction defect. In his view, the lintel had collapsed because it was made of 
brick/concrete and had been exposed to the elements over time causing it to weather and to 
allow water to ingress. Mr and Mrs P also asked their contractors, and local building control, to comment on the 
cause of damage. Their general contractor said the outer concrete lintel had broken up due 
to being exposed to the elementsA DESIGN FAULT. The lintels should have been steel 
beams. We have under local building control specification, taken out the concrete lintels and 
replaced them with steel ones. Another contractor said, all damage is due to wind or 
storms Building control commented, the failure of the lintel is due to it being exposed to 
the weather
It is clear from the evidence provided that the lintels originally used were of faulty design; 
they were made of concrete/brick when they shouldve been made of steel. As set out 
above, damage that is the result of defective design or materials is excluded from cover 
under the accidental damage section of the policy. The damage the lintels sustained was a 
consequence of that design fault in that the materials they were made of weathered over 
time and allowed water to ingress as a result. It is my understanding that the lintels 
(eventually) collapsed. But none of Mr and Mrs Ps contractors have said the damage was a 
consequence of a one-off storm.
It seems that the storm highlighted a pre-existing issue with the condition of the lintels that 
had deteriorated over time due to weathering. Also excluded from the accidental damage 
peril is damage that is the result of deterioration or which happens gradually.
The evidence Ive seen doesnt allow me to reasonably conclude that the damage to the 
lintels was the result of a sudden one-off event  be that accidental damage or storm. Rather 
the evidence indicates the lintels were of faulty design that failed gradually over time 
because they were exposed to the elements. Such damage isnt covered by Mr and Mrs Ps 
policy so, it follows that I dont think LV has unfairly or unreasonably declined their claim. I 
accept this decision will come as a disappointment to them but, taking all the evidence into 
account, I cant reasonably uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman