DRN-1366511
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about his claim for a section 75 refund being unsuccessful.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened than not. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. Mr S makes 
his complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which in certain 
circumstances gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the provider of credit, 
which in this case is Nationwide, if theres been a breach of contract by the supplier. 
Here Mr S says the supplier damaged his TV while installing some wall brackets. But 
I havent seen anything that shows on balance that this was the case. The supplier 
says the reported damage is in fact a technical or manufacturing fault. Nationwide 
reasonably invited Mr S to obtain an independent report to establish whether the 
supplier had damaged the TV and said if it had done so it would reimburse Mr S for 
the reports cost. But Mr S has declined to do so.
To be able to uphold Mr S complaint I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract by the supplier. But In this case I dont think on balance that this has been 
established by him. 
Overall I think Nationwide has investigated and handled Mr S claim fairly. But as 
there isnt any evidence to suggest the supplier damaged the TV and that a breach of 
contract has occurred, Nationwide has acted reasonably by declining his claim for a 
refund under section 75. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to do 
anything more or differently.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr S frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman