DRN-3260037
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt honour an agreement reached with one 
of their agents to accept an offer of settlement made by Mrs M to clear the balance on her 
account.
Mrs M is represented by her husband on this complaint. For ease of reference, Ive referred 
to Mrs M throughout this letter.
What happened
Mrs M has a Barclays credit account which had a balance outstanding of approximately 
£12,129. In July 2020, Mrs M contacted by Barclays by telephone and made a settlement 
offer to pay £7,500 to clear the account balance in full and close the account. The Barclays 
agent to whom Mrs M spoke discussed Mrs Ms proposal with a colleague before confirming 
that Barclays would accept the offer, and Mrs M then paid the £7,500, on the understanding 
that Barclays would write off the remaining balance and close her account.
Mrs M then began to receive notifications from Barclays that she hadnt made monthly 
payments that were due on the account. Mrs M contacted Barclays about this and was 
advised that the agent to whom she had spoken previously and who had accepted the offer 
of £7,500 as a settlement payment had made an error and that Barclays werent willing to 
accept that settlement offer that the remaining balance of the account continued to be 
considered as being outstanding. Mrs M wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ms complaint. They confirmed that the agent to whom they initially 
spoke made an error in accepting the offer and that Barclays werent willing to accept the 
£7,500 payment as an offer of settlement. Barclays apologised to Mrs M for the error, and 
explained that they could either return the £7,500 payment to Mrs M and thus return the 
account balance to what it had been before the payment had been made, or they could 
retain the £7,500 payment and move forwards with the balance outstanding on the account 
as it was with that payment having been made.
Barclays also confirmed that they would reimburse to Mrs Ms account the late payment fees 
that had accrued on the account since the £7,500 payment and that they wouldnt report the 
missed payments as being such to the credit reference agencies. Finally, Barclays offered to 
make a payment of £250 to Mrs M to compensate her for the trouble and upset that their 
agents error had caused.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Barclays werent obliged 
to honour the agreement made by their agent in error, and they felt that Barclays response 
to Mrs Ms complaint represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mrs M might feel that, having had her offer of settlement verbally 
accepted by a Barclays agent, that Barclays should honour that offer of settlement, 
regardless of whether Barclays subsequently felt that the agent in question had made a 
mistake by agreeing to accept that offer.
This point is the very crux of this complaint, and as such I have given considerable thought 
to both sides of this position. However, while I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs M, its ultimately my decision here that is fair for Barclays to not 
honour the agreement made in error by their agent and to continue to consider the full 
balance of the account to be outstanding. 
In instances where an error has occurred, such as in this instance, it would be expected that 
Barclays would take the corrective steps necessary to ensure that the customer affected by 
the error isnt financially disadvantaged. And I dont feel that Mrs M has been financially 
disadvantaged by Barclays making this mistake or in how theyve explained to Mrs M that 
they intend to move forwards from it. 
I acknowledge that Mrs M may disagree with this point and contend that by refusing her offer 
of settlement she continues to be liable for a further balance of approximately £4,730 that 
she wouldnt have been liable for had Barclays honoured the proposed settlement offer. 
However, this £4,730 is money for which Mrs M has always been liable for, and rather than it 
being the case that Barclays have burdened Mrs M with any additional financial liability by 
not accepting her settlement proposal, I feel that Barclays are instead only insisting on the 
repayment of money that is legitimately owed to them by Mrs M, as per the terms of the 
credit account to which Mrs M agreed when first accepting that account.
Barclays have also confirmed that theyve taken further steps to ensure that Mrs M isnt 
financially disadvantaged by what has taken place here, including the reimbursement of 
missed payment fees and the suspension of interest on the account while this matter is 
resolved. And by taking these steps, and offering to reimburse the £7,500 payment to Mrs M, 
Im satisfied that Barclays have taken the corrective action necessary to ensure that Mrs M is 
put back into a financial position no worse the legitimate financial position she would have 
been in had Barclays agent not made the error of accepting the settlement offer that he did. 
But while Im satisfied that no further corrective action, beyond that which Barclays have 
already proposed, is fairly and reasonably required of Barclays in this instance, I do feel that 
Mrs M has incurred a degree of upset and inconvenience as a result of these events, and 
that some financial compensation to Mrs M is merited because of this.
In their response to Mrs Ms complaint, Barclays recognised this point themselves and 
offered to make a compensation payment of £250 to Mrs M because of it. This feels fair to 
me, and I can confirm that such an amount is commensurate with what this service would 
expect, given the circumstances here.
All of which means that I do feel that Barclays response to Mrs Ms complaint, including the 
offer to reimburse the £7,500 payment if requested, as well as the additional measures to 
ensure that Mrs M isnt financially disadvantaged by what has taken place and the offer of 
£250 compensation, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what has taken 
place. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs M was wanting, but I hope that shell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman