DRN-2756642
The complaint
Mr M complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds settlement of his private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr M called AXA after experiencing a stroke. He wanted to know if he could claim NHS 
cash benefit under the policy if he received treatment in an NHS hospital. AXA advised 
him to submit his hospital discharge summary.
Mr M was then admitted to an NHS hospital, and remained there for just over three 
months. He later submitted a claim to AXA for NHS cash benefit.
AXA said NHS cash benefit would only be payable if the treatment wouldve been covered 
by the policy if it had taken place privately. It said that Mr M had received rehabilitation 
rather than active treatment, and so he couldnt have made a successful claim for private 
treatment. Therefore, AXA said the claim for NHS cash benefit wasnt eligible. However, 
AXA thought it had misled Mr M into thinking he could make a successful claim simply by 
submitting the hospital discharge summary. It therefore offered him 50% of the NHS cash 
benefit claim. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She noted the policy offered 
private rehabilitation treatment for up to 28 days, and she thought Mr M could have 
claimed for that under the policy. She therefore recommended that AXA pay NHS cash 
benefit for the maximum 28 days, less the amount it had already paid Mr M. She also 
thought AXA should pay Mr M £100 compensation for the confusion it had caused him.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy pays £50 NHS cash benefit per night up to £2,000 a year if treatment takes 
place in an NHS hospital that couldve been covered privately.
AXA says theres no evidence that Mr M received active treatment whilst in hospital, and 
instead he received rehabilitation. It therefore thinks Mr M couldnt have claimed for 
private treatment under the policy.
The policy provides private cover for rehabilitation for up to 28 days per year. It says it 
will cover rehabilitation so long as it follows an acute brain injury, such as a stroke.
I understand Mr M experienced a spinal stroke, and so didnt experience a brain injury. I 
think that means that he wouldnt have been entitled to private rehabilitation treatment 
under the policy. Consequently, he wouldnt have been eligible for NHS cash benefit.
I agree with AXA that it ought to have made it clear to Mr M that NHS cash benefit would 
only be payable if treatment took place in an NHS hospital which couldve been covered 
privately. However, I think its offer to pay 50% of the claim was reasonable compensation 
in the circumstances. I therefore dont require it to increase this.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make.
AXA responded to say it accepted my provisional findings.
Mr M responded to say he disagrees with my provisional findings, but doesnt have any 
further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr M disagrees with my provisional findings, he hasnt explained why. Therefore, 
as neither party has provided me with any further comments to consider, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. 
I remain of the view that Mr M wouldnt have been entitled to private treatment under the 
policy, and so AXA was correct to say that he couldnt claim NHS cash benefit. Though AXA 
did fail to make it clear to Mr M the circumstances in which NHS cash benefit would be 
payable, and so he did experience a loss of expectation. However, Im satisfied that AXAs 
offer to pay 50% of the claim was reasonable compensation for its error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
has made a reasonable offer of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman