DRN-3878081
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E feel that Nationwide Building Society has treated them unfairly in relation to 
receiving a payment to their account.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr E tried to pay substantial funds to their account with Nationwide Building 
Society (NBS for short) from his account with Firm C. This payment required a currency 
conversion from US Dollars to GB Pounds by Firm C. When this payment wasnt successful 
Mr E spent a significant amount of time trying to get to the bottom of why it hadnt been 
successful with both NBS and Firm C. After further attempts to transfer the money that were 
unsuccessful, Mr E finally made smaller transactions to transfer the amount to be transferred 
in smaller amounts, doing so in May 2021. Mr E says hes lost £12,780.99 between the 
foreign exchange conversion rate he was initially told hed have to what he finally received in 
his account with NBS. So he complained to NBS who initially offered him £50 for not dealing 
with one of his calls well. He brought his complaint here.
Our investigator agreed that NBS should refund Mr E £12,780.99. But NBS didnt agree. It 
said that although it was responsible for some of the issues present, some of the initial 
issues stemmed from Firm C and it didnt feel it was responsible for all that happened. So it 
didnt feel it should pay that much. But it did think it should pay the £350 the Investigator 
suggested it pay Mr E for the distress and inconvenience suffered. After further to and fro 
between this service and NBS, it suggested it should:
redress any loss in value of the exchange rate between 12th April 2021, when we should 
have provided further assistance to enable (Mr E) to make the payment to 10th May 2021 
when we actually provided (Mr E) the information required to make the payment.
This suggested settlement has been put to Mr E, but Mr E said he couldnt accept it 
because, based on his calculations, there would be a difference of over £4000 between what 
he felt the loss was (£12,780.99) and what he calculated NBS offer to equate to. He did say 
hed want further information about NBS rationale to make an informed decision. He also 
said he took significant steps to mitigate possible losses.
Our Investigator remained of the view that NBS should pay £12,780.99 plus the £350. NBS 
doesnt agree, so this complaint came to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 saying why I felt the offer methodology that 
NBS had put forward was fair. NBS responded saying it had nothing further to add. Mr E has 
made a number of arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Es comments and Im not persuaded to deviate from my position as 
articulated in my provisional decision largely for the reasons already given. I shall provide 
further comment on Mr Es arguments after Ive set out the main arguments that were in my 
provisional decision again here for completeness. But Im satisfied that the NBS offer is fair.
The type of payments from Firm C that Mr E made to NBS (both those that were successful 
and those that were unsuccessful) are essentially push transactions where Mr E gives Firm 
C an instruction and it then makes the payment which goes through an intermediary bank 
before reaching NBS. Clearly the currency exchange rate is fluctuating in line with market 
conditions, before during and after what happened here happened. And when Mr E finally 
made the successful transfers the conversion rate received from Firm C wasnt as 
favourable as that which hed been advised of in March 2021. Nevertheless Mr E made 
those transfers at those rates when he did. And if he was unaware of the exchange rate 
when he did that, that wouldnt sit with NBS. Mr E says he mitigated his losses; however it 
seems he could have waited for more favourable rates to do the transfers if hed chosen to 
do so. And NBS werent providing that conversion rate-Firm C was. So in making those 
successful transfers at the exchange rate he did, Mr E does bear responsibility for those 
decisions to transfer at those rates at those times.
Having said that, there is no debate that NBS could have done better in helping Mr E iron out 
the problems being encountered in these payments which were returned originally. And NBS 
has accepted it could have done better by accepting this and making an offer. 
So is the NBS offer methodology fair?
NBS has firstly noted that in relation to the first call Mr E made to it, it hadnt made a 
mistake. It says that based on what Mr E told it, it had searched for the transaction but had 
been unable to find it. It argues that its search criteria were reasonable based on what it had 
been told. And it points to having large numbers of such transactions on a daily basis and 
thus searched all such incoming transactions within parameters based on what it had been 
told. It then goes on to say when Mr E tried to do the transfer again a few days later in March 
2021 it would have expected Mr E or Firm C to have done more at that point to understand 
why the first transaction hadnt been successful. It also notes that the initial payments were 
unsuccessful due to not having all the required identifying information provided along with 
the payment and that it was applying its criteria in line with its risk criteria for such 
transactions.
Having considered what happened here and what NBS did in March 2021 between the first 
two attempted transfers Im not persuaded it did anything wrong or made a mistake. I do 
have sympathy with Mr Es view that it could have done better. It had searched for the 
payment based on parameters in its search based on what Mr E had told it at the time and 
couldnt find it based on those parameters. It does transpire that NBS had received the 
money but hadnt been able to identify it as the amount searched for was different to what 
was received. And although I can well imagine Mr E would think that such a sum would be 
easy to find, the reality is that large institutions receive (and send out) large numbers of such 
sized transactions on a daily basis. So identifying such sized payments is actually not as 
straightforward as might be imagined.
For me to reasonably conclude NBS should be liable it has to have made some sort of 
mistake or failing here. And Im not persuaded it has. So this does mean Im not persuaded 
that NBS should cover the difference between the original conversion from USD to GBP and 
the crystallisation of the loss by it being reconverted back to USD when these initial attempts 
failed.
NBS offer is to cover exchange losses between 12th April 2021 (when it should have 
provided further assistance to enable Mr E to make the payment) to 10th May 2021 when it 
actually did. I can see during this time there was a lot of contact between Mr E and NBS and I note that this was cordial throughout. However as NBS has noted it didnt get to the crux of 
the issue until the 10th May when it finally provided the information it should have done. All 
things considered here I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the round.
Mr E points to the conversion rates he received when the payments were finally successful. 
However Ive considered the evidence hes supplied from Firm C about when it made these 
transfers which finally did credit the NBS account. I note they are listed as being on the 19th 
and 25th May. These being nine and fifteen days after NBS provided Mr E with enough 
information to resolve the issue. The 10th May 2021 was a Monday, so I think Mr E could 
have initiated the transaction that day or close to it. I accept that Mr E probably had lost 
some faith in the payment processes he was trying to utilise. However, as throughout, hed 
have been aware of the need for a currency exchange here and that such rates do fluctuate. 
It maybe that there were issues with Firm C here-but NBS can only be held accountable for 
what it did wrong, not any other party. So it is my current thinking that NBS offer is fair and 
reasonable. I do not think NBS should be liable for the £12,780.99 Mr E wants it to pay him. I 
say this because NBS should only be accountable for errors or failings it has made.
Mr E says the information NBS provided on its statements about such transfers doesnt 
sufficiently deal with the size of transfer he was trying to make. Mr E was making a 
substantial transfer here. NBS has a number of obligations in its dealings with such transfers 
and indeed more broadly. It is obliged to make efforts to minimise fraudulent and illegal 
transfers. It is given considerable scope in how it does this, how it protects consumers 
broadly and indeed how it protects itself. It is also the case that it can chose to keep how it 
meets these obligations between it and its regulatory bodies only and not make public such 
information in its attempts to minimise fraud and illegality. So although I can well imagine Mr 
E being frustrated by not receiving full information about how such transfers are monitored 
and processed by NBS, I dont think it has done anything wrong in not providing all such 
information. And Mr E should be aware of this when considering the matter.
In response to NBS offer Mr E notes that there is a significant difference between what NBS 
is offering and the more than twelve thousand GBP he feels hes lost. I agree that there is a 
significant difference, but Im not persuaded NBS should be held accountable for the 
currency difference entirely. I say this because Im not persuaded it was at fault at the 
beginning of that time frame nor for the time period between when NBS informed Mr E of 
what he needed to know and when the transfers were eventually made. I think it fair that 
NBS should only be accountable for the time when it was at fault.
Ultimately, as Ive described these payments including currency conversions (both 
successful and unsuccessful) were made by Firm C under Mr Es instructions. Ive not seen 
NBS being on notice of a definite timescale for these to be completed. NBS isnt responsible 
for Firm C nor the intermediary bank nor Mr Es decisions around his payments and when to 
make them. So all in all I think NBS offer as it stands to redress the currency change 
between 12th April 2021 and 10th May 2021 is fair. I also think it would be unfair of NBS to 
withdraw such an offer at this stage having made it of its own volition in these particular 
circumstances.
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience of the matter suffered by what NBS did. I can 
fully see Mr Es arguments about the concern hed have had when such a large sum was 
apparently unaccounted for. But I must also remember that there were a number of parties 
involved here, not just NBS. Similarly I must account for the periods when NBS hadnt done 
anything wrong. I see NBS has accepted to pay £350 as suggested by the Investigator. I 
think thats a fair resolution to this facet of this dispute.
Further argumentsMr E has made lengthy and articulate arguments since receiving my provisional decision. 
However I do not find them persuasive and Ill explain why. But first I should note that had 
NBS not made the offer it has I think it unlikely my methodology would have led to an award 
as sizeable as the offer made by NBS. Mr E has the option of declining my decision and 
continuing this dispute directly with NBS. So he should consider such a step carefully.
Turning to Mr Es points. Ill only deal with his key arguments put forward this time as much 
has been said before and is covered in my arguments above. So Im not persuaded that 
there is much to be gained by my repeating my arguments as set out above.
Mr E says At present, NBS have not shown how anyone could transfer more than (a 
significant cash sum pertinent to this transaction) from Firm C in a single wire transfer. 
Neither do NBS publish to their customers that there is any upper limit on a wire transfer. 
This is correct and as I said in my provisional decision:
It (NBS) is obliged to make efforts to minimise fraudulent and illegal transfers. It is given 
considerable scope in how it does this, how it protects consumers broadly and indeed how it 
protects itself. It is also the case that it can chose to keep how it meets these obligations 
between it and its regulatory bodies only and not make public such information in its 
attempts to minimise fraud and illegality. So although as I noted earlier potentially frustrating 
to Mr E, Im satisfied this is reasonable and fair in the round.
Mr E refers to NBS failure to take reasonable steps to assist me to trace the original 
transfer. From what Ive seen this isnt the case. As I said in my provisional decision:
It had searched for the payment based on parameters in its search based on what Mr E had 
told it and couldnt find it based on those parameters. It does transpire that NBS had 
received the money but hadnt been able to identify it as the amount searched for was 
different to what was received. So I disagree with Mr Es assertion that NBS didnt take 
reasonable steps to find the original transfer. It based its search on what Mr E said at that 
time.
Mr E says all the subsequent transfers were forced on me by NBS failings and that I acted 
with all despatch. Again it is clear that the evidence doesnt support this position. As I said 
in my provisional decision Mr Es chosen dates of later transfers when, in essence, he 
crystalised an exchange rate loss were listed as being on the 19th and 25th May. These 
being nine and fifteen days after NBS provided Mr E with enough information to resolve the 
issue. So it is clear that had he (or the bank from where the funds originated) acted earlier 
or indeed later the exchange rate would have been different to when he decided to make the 
transaction.
Mr E points towards information hes received from Firm C regarding what information was 
provided by Firm C when he asked for it in relation to the attempted transaction. Mr E says 
NBS have provided no evidence that the (document code name) sent by Firm C is in error. 
Mr E is referring to a well-known messaging system used often on such transfers. Ive 
considered what NBS received regarding the transaction. And Im not persuaded NBS has 
made an error here. And this decision isnt about what Firm C did or didnt do. And I should 
note that it isnt for NBS to come to conclusions as to what Firm C did either. And I think Mr 
Es arguments here are unpersuasive based on the evidence Ive seen. I should further add 
that for a variety of reasons I can well understand Mr Es frustration, but the reality of the 
situation is very complex how such transfers work and how they work between the number 
of parties and processes involved here.
Mr E says the information provided on 10 May was insufficient to proceed with making a 
successful transfer. Mr E seems to rely heavily on what Firm C told him at that time. Im 
satisfied that based on what NBS told him he could have made a successful transaction at 
that time. And NBS isnt liable for what Firm C says. I should also note as Ive explained earlier this offer more than fair to my mind. And this point is somewhat moot as in any event 
Mr E then made transfers of smaller amounts which he could have done on 10 May based 
on what the then knew.
Mr E makes the point that he doesnt know the precise amount of the offer being made. He 
makes the point that the exchange rate Firm C would have used isnt public knowledge and 
he cannot assess it. This service has been in contact with Firm C and it has provided the 
exchange rates it provided on the relevant days on transactions of similar quantum. Im 
satisfied this information is a fair way of assessing what Mr E would have got in terms of 
exchange rate on those days. This information has been provided to Mr E and NBS. And 
ultimately it is worth bearing in mind that the exchange rate transactions were entirely done 
and reversed by Firm C without any direct involvement by NBS and were not directly part of 
the transactions which NBS received at any point. All transactions sent to NBS were in GBP. 
And NBS were not involved in any foreign exchange conversion transactions in this case.
Putting things right
Accordingly it is my decision that this complaint should succeed and NBS offer is fair and 
thus it should complete this offer using Firm Cs USD GBP exchange rates (supplied to it by 
this service) between 12th April 2021 and 10th May 2021 to calculate the offer to be made on 
the $466,228.05 Mr E held at the beginning of this period that NBS is to pay. NBS should 
also pay £350 to Mr E and Mrs Es account to cover the distress and inconvenience caused 
as it agreed.
Mr E is at liberty to not accept this decision and not be bound by it. But this decision does 
bring to a conclusion this services involvement in this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society 
and direct it to settle the matter as Ive described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman