DRN-4087470
The complaint
Mr W complains about advice he received around the transfer of benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
The advice was given by a business which JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) is now 
responsible for answering complaints about. So, for ease of reading this decision, Ill largely 
just refer to JLT.
What happened
Mr W had deferred benefits in a DB scheme pension which he had accrued working for a 
previous employer between 1978 and 2003.
His former employer made offers to some scheme members in respect of their pensions 
where it would offer an enhancement on transfer values, in the event they transferred their 
benefits away from the DB scheme. The enhancement could be taken as an increase on the 
transfer value or as a cash lump sum. As part of the process, it appointed the business 
which JLT is now responsible for as the adviser in respect of the offers and would pay for 
advice provided by that business. And it directed members to that adviser if they wished to 
discuss the offer.
Mr W received his offer in May 2009. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his 
benefits at that time was £89,030. And, if he chose to transfer, his employer would increase 
this offer by £19,176.04, or he could elect to just transfer the existing CETV and take a cash 
payment of £15,076.77.
I understand Mr W enquired about potentially accepting the offer. And JLT subsequently 
sent him a questionnaire to complete  to provide it with information about his circumstances 
and objectives. This consisted of requesting some basic personal information and asking 
Mr W to select answers from a list of options to some pre-determined questions. Mr W 
returned this questionnaire in June 2009. 
This recorded that Mr W was 50, in good health, married with one dependent child. No 
specific questions were asked about his employment status, financial position, income and 
expenditure, when he planned to retire or what he believed his income needs in retirement 
would be. 
In the section where answers were selected from a pre-determined list, Mr W indicated, 
while he did have some other pension arrangements, including at least one where active 
contributions were being made, he anticipated the DB scheme would form the majority of his 
retirement provisions. He was asked how he would ideally like benefits to be paid in the 
event of his death  to which he selected the maximum possible as a lump sum. He was 
also asked if taking tax-free cash (TFC) at retirement was a priority to him, to which he 
selected the answer that he would like the maximum possible TFC, but he didnt have a 
reason for this at that point. When asked if he had a preference how hed receive the 
enhancement being offered  either as cash or as an increase to the transfer value  he 
indicated that he did not know at that stage.
Mr W indicated he had little or no investment knowledge and would only tolerate low volatility 
in the value of his pension. He said he was only looking for his pension to increase in line 
with inflation and would be most comfortable investing in a manner that would provide some 
growth with a limited amount of volatility. And he said his choice would be for 100% of his 
pension to be invested in low risk, low potential return funds. Based on this, JLT considered 
Mr W had a low to medium attitude to risk.
On 19 June 2009, JLT issued its written recommendation to Mr W. The report started with an 
executive summary of its advice  which JLT said was that Mr W does not move his pension. 
It explained that this is based exclusively on whether your Critical Yield is achievable on a 
year-by-year basis considering your tolerance to risk, as confirmed in the Your investment 
profile section of this recommendation. And that it had only considered Mr W taking 
benefits at the normal retirement age of the DB scheme. The report went on to say the 
critical yield - the rate Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was estimated to be 6.2% if he invested the 
CETV and enhancement, or 7.6% if he took the enhancement as cash and just invested the 
underlying CETV. JLT said these were unlikely to be achievable.
Despite the above, the report also said Our recommendation, if you decide to move your 
pension out of the Scheme, is that you should take the maximum enhancement to your 
transfer value in order to maximise your pension in retirement.
The report included a What to do next section. This said if Mr W wished to follow the 
recommendation he didnt need to do anything. But if he wished to transfer against JLTs 
advice, it explained what documents hed need to complete, and remined Mr W that the 
offer made by his former employer was only valid for a limited time.
On 22 July 2009, Mr W made two calls to JLTs helpdesk. He confirmed hed received the 
report and was still interested in transferring, so asked about the next steps. JLT said Mr W 
could either transfer to a pension with a default provider it recommended, or to his own 
arrangement. In the first call, Mr W indicated he was aware the deadline for accepting the 
enhancement offer was imminent, so, questioned if he could be wasting his time. JLT said 
there was a possibility he could miss the deadline, so he said hed think about it again. In the 
second call, on the same day, he said he was still interested in proceeding and would likely 
transfer to a pension of his choosing.
Mr W had a further call with JLT on 11 August 2009, in which he said he was now looking to 
transfer to the default fund JLT recommended. Mr W said hed read the report and 
understood JLT was advising him not to transfer. JLT ran through some disclaimers and 
asked Mr W to confirm he agreed to those statements. The first of these was that he felt he 
had sufficient information to make an informed decision. He also said he understood hed be 
treated as an insistent client and that a transfer was irreversible.Following this call on 11 August 2009, JLT sent Mr W a letter saying, as he was aware, it 
had recommended against a transfer. But hed now indicated he wanted to proceed, against 
its advice. It said that, by not following its advice, Mr Ws retirement benefits could be 
dramatically reduced. And said he needed to understand what this meant and should 
consider seeking further advice. It also enclosed the relevant application forms for Mr W to 
apply for a personal pension with the default provider it recommended.
There were two further calls between Mr W and JLT that Ive been made aware of. In these 
he discussed how the relevant application forms needed to be completed in respect of 
investment choices.
The forms were signed and returned to JLT in early September 2009. Mr W elected, as part 
of the application, to take the enhancement as a cash sum.
JLT sent Mr W another letter on 14 September 2009, acknowledging receipt of the relevant 
forms and confirming that these had been forwarded to the pension provider. It said, from 
this, it understood Mr W wanted to proceed against its advice and repeated that, as Mr W 
had chosen not to follow its advice, his retirement benefits could be reduced if his chosen 
fund did not produce the level of growth required to meet the critical yield.
I understand the transfer completed shortly after this.
A number of years later JLT wrote to Mr W saying it was undertaking a review of the advice 
it had provided previously and asked if he wanted it to review the advice it had given to him. 
Mr W signed a form confirming hed like his advice reviewed.
On 16 December 2021, JLT wrote to Mr W with the outcome of its review. It said it 
considered the advice it had given was appropriate based on his circumstances because it 
advised him against transferring, which it said was partly because it thought the maximum 
return he could potentially achieve was 5.7% per year, which was less that the critical yields 
calculated at the time. But Mr W had insisted on transferring. And JLT thought he was clearly 
aware he was acting against its advice based on the conversations that had taken place and 
the written warnings issued.
While it didnt think the advice was inappropriate, JLT thought the investment that Mr Ws 
funds were transferred into were not aligned to his personal circumstances. It said though, 
having carried out a calculation, based on the assumed values of his pension, it didnt think 
hed suffered a financial loss. JLT said Mr W could refer the matter to our service. 
Mr W asked our service to consider the matter. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that JLT should compensate Mr W for any 
loss the DB transfer had led to. He felt the recommendation JLT made was incomplete and 
didnt provide all of the information it shouldve done. So, he thought Mr W wasnt in a 
position to make an informed decision on whether to proceed as an insistent client. The 
Investigator noted that Mr W had said hed transferred because of the incentive and because 
he was worried about missing out on this, but that the benefits of remaining in the scheme 
hadnt been clearly explained. And the Investigator felt, if Mr W had been given further 
information, he wouldnt have gone ahead. He also felt JLT had made it too easy for Mr W to 
elect to be an insistent client.
JLT disagreed. It felt it had been clear that it was advising against a transfer and that Mr W 
had understood this. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. This includes COBS 19.1.6G which says that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable and should only be 
considered if it can be clearly demonstrated that the transfer was in the consumers best 
interests. 
Was a transfer suitable for Mr W? 
The information that JLT gathered about Mr Ws circumstances was limited. It understood 
his age, marital status and health. And one of the answers to the questions it asked 
indicated he had other pension arrangements  albeit with the DB scheme expected to form 
the majority of his retirement provisions. Beyond that though I cant see that JLT gathered 
any further information about his circumstances.
JLT didnt gather any information about his financial position  whether he had any 
significant assets or liabilities, what his income and expenditure situation was, how long he 
intended to continue to work and what income he and his wife expected to need in 
retirement. It also didnt obtain any information about his other pension provisions, whether 
his wife had any pension provisions, whether they expected to be reliant on one anothers 
pensions at any stage or if he had any life insurance or other provisions in place.
JLT has said that this was a focused advice piece. But it was advising on whether a transfer 
was in Mr Ws best interests. In my view, in order to establish what was in Mr Ws best 
interests, it needed to understand his circumstances more thoroughly, particularly his 
retirement needs and provisions. The primary purpose of a pension is after all to provide for 
the holders income needs in retirement. And COBS 9.2.1R explains that when making a 
personal recommendation, JLT needed to obtain necessary information about Mr Ws 
financial situation. So, I dont think JLT obtained enough information to assess if a transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests. And COBS 9.2.6R says if a firm hasnt obtained the necessary information to 
assess suitability it shouldnt make a personal recommendation.
These issues with information gathering notwithstanding however, I dont think, based on the 
information that is available, it can reasonably be argued that a transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests.
The DB scheme pension that Mr W held would provide him a guaranteed escalating income 
in retirement. It was estimated that at the normal scheme retirement age, which JLT 
indicated in the suitability report was age 65, it could provide Mr W £58,761.60 in TFC and 
an annual pension starting at £8,814.20.
JLT was required by the regulator to carry out a transfer value analysis and to calculate a 
critical yield. It said the critical yield  the growth rate required to purchase equivalent 
benefits to those mentioned above that the DB scheme would provide at age 65 - was 6.2% 
if Mr W invested his CETV and enhancement, or 7.6% if he just invested the CETV.
JLT said it didnt think that rate was achievable. So, Mr W was always likely to be worse off. 
And in its review of the advice, in 2021, it said the maximum return it expected he could 
potentially achieve was 5.7% per year. I note though this figure is not reflected in any of the 
documentation Ive been provided from the point of sale and doesnt appear to have been 
disclosed to Mr W during the advice.
I agree it was unlikely Mr W could have consistently achieved returns in excess of the critical 
yield. JLT recorded that he had a low to medium attitude to risk. But looking at the answers 
he gave to questions in the initial client questionnaire I think his attitude to risk was low. So, 
investing in line with this attitude to risk  in lower risk funds  wouldve been appropriate for 
him. And taking into account the regulators standard projections rates at the time, the upper 
projection rate being 9%, the middle projection 7% and the lower projection 5%, investing in 
line with that attitude to risk appears to have been unlikely to allow him to consistently 
exceed the critical yield year on year. Which hed have needed to do in order to potentially 
receive higher pension benefits at retirement. And so, I think Mr W was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
This isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
But I cant see that there were any other reasons to transfer here.
Mr W did indicate in the initial questionnaire that he expected to want to take the maximum 
possible TFC at retirement. But he didnt have a reason for this at the time of the advice. And 
he didnt require a specific amount for a set purpose. And the DB scheme wouldve provided 
him access to TFC. So, he didnt need to transfer at that time to access TFC. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr W had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement  primarily because no information about his retirement needs was gathered at 
the time. But what this means is, I dont think it can be said that he needed to transfer at the 
time to achieve flexibility. 
Im also conscious Mr W was still several years away from retirement. So, his needs in 
retirement may also have been unknown or at least subject to potential change. So, I dont 
think he needed to make an irreversible decision to transfer, giving up guaranteed benefits, 
when he did.Mr W indicated in his questionnaire that his preference in terms of death benefits was for the 
maximum possible to be paid as a lump sum. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr W about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. Again, a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
And I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. 
Mr W was an inexperienced investor. He was identified as having minimal investment 
knowledge and experience. So, I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think transferring to achieve 
greater control was a genuine objective or in his interests.
The exercise his former employer was undertaking by providing enhanced offers was 
confirmed in the offer letter as being because the cost of providing pensions was rising, so it 
was managing and controlling future risk. But I havent seen anything to suggest the funding 
of the DB scheme was in a position such that Mr W should have genuinely been concerned 
about the security of his pension. So, I also dont think transferring for this reason was in his 
best interests.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr W had a genuine need to transfer at the time. 
And by transferring I think he was always likely to receive lower retirement benefits than the 
DB scheme wouldve provided. So, I dont think a transfer was suitable for him here  which 
JLT ultimately concluded at the time.
Was JLTs advice suitable and clear 
The suitability report made the point several times that JLTs recommendation was solely 
based on whether the critical yield was achievable. As Ive explained above, this isnt the 
only consideration when giving transfer advice. So, I dont think JLT considered everything it 
shouldve done. And as Ive said I dont think JLT had all of the necessary information to 
make a recommendation here. But JLTs recommendation ultimately was that Mr W should 
not transfer his pension. And, as Ive explained above, I think that was appropriate for Mr W. 
And I am satisfied that this overall recommendation was set out. Like our Investigator 
though, I dont think the explanation was as clear as it shouldve been or provided Mr W with 
clear enough information.
The recommendation report mentioned that moving to a personal pension was likely to meet 
Mr Ws requirement to maximise tax-free cash. As Ive said though, he had no recorded 
need for a specific amount of TFC and I think maximising this was a nice to have rather 
than a need. But in any event, Im not sure that I necessarily agree that he was likely to 
achieve this objective  receive more TFC  by transfering. 
JLT said Mr W might achieve TFC at retirement of £59,100 if he transferred just the CETV 
and £71,800 if he transferred the CETV and added the enhancement to his pension. And 
these figures were greater than the TFC the DB scheme was expected to provide 
(£58,761.60). But they were based on consistently achieving growth of 7% - the regulators 
middle projection rate. JLT has said this return rate was prescribed by the regulator. But JLT 
said in the suitability report that it didnt think a return of 6.2% was achievable, when 
discussing the critical yield. And in its review of the advice, it said it thought 5.7% was the 
maximum return Mr W could expect to achieve consistently, although again no reference 
was made to that at the time. With that in mind, I think including TFC projections using the 
rate of 7%, regardless of this being the middle projection rate of the regulator, was 
misleading in this particular case. And it meant Mr W was relying on a flawed monetary 
comparison when considering how a transfer might impact him.And on the subject of monetary comparisons, the recommendation did not include one in 
respect of the potential annual income the pension would provide. Instead JLT just said, 
across its correspondence with him, that Mr Ws retirement benefits could be reduced. 
Which I dont think went far enough to allow Mr W to make an informed decision as it failed 
to provide any context. And, as Ive already said, the report indicated, albeit potentially 
misleadingly that TFC  a retirement benefit  may not be reduced.
The recommendation letter did explain that the DB scheme was projected to provide a 
pension starting at £8,814.20 per year in retirement. Although I note this was not mentioned 
until after the what happens next section. But there were no projections of what the 
potential annual income could be from a personal pension  either if growth was at the 
regulators standard projection rates or, as in my view wouldve been more appropriate here, 
growth of 5.7% - the apparent best case scenario JLT believed could occur  was achieved.
I think such a comparison shouldve been included, before JLT gave advice here. COBS 
19.1.2R required JLT, when giving advice about a pension transfer, to compare the benefits 
likely to be paid under the DB scheme with those of a personal pension before giving advice 
and to share that with Mr W so that he could make an informed decision. The annual 
pension Mr W would receive was a key benefit. And a side-by-side comparison of this in 
monetary terms was in my view vitally important here  particularly because the 
enhancement he was being offered in respect of his pension was likely to be a significant 
factor in his decision making. So, being able to compare that to a monetary value of how 
much he was projected to be worse off wouldve been a significant consideration. And JLT 
highlighting that comparison, and explaining what it meant for its recommendation, wouldve 
also been an important factor.
I think a projection of this couldve been obtained before JLT gave advice. Its clear from the 
information Ive been provided that JLT had a default provider in respect of transfers from 
Mr Ws scheme. So, projections from that provider, using the expected returns Mr W was 
likely to receive based on his attitude to risk, couldve been obtained and included. 
In addition, although JLT said it wasnt recommending a transfer, it did include a 
recommendation on how the enhancement should be utilised in the event that Mr W did 
proceed with a transfer. Which I dont think was appropriate in the circumstances and 
couldve led to some doubt on Mr Ws part about what was being recommended.
I also dont think the suitability report needed to introduce the option for Mr W to go against 
JLTs advice. This option was outlined to Mr W in the what happens next section. But given 
JLT thought a transfer wasnt in his interests, I dont think directing Mr W to this possibility 
was in his interests as I think giving an option to immediately disregard a recommendation 
undermines it.
Taking all of this into account, while JLTs stance that transferring was not suitable for Mr W 
was, in my view correct, I dont think this advice was as reasoned or detailed as it shouldve 
been. And I think JLT unnecessarily introduced doubt and gave Mr W the option of 
disregarding that advice.
Was Mr W insistent and would he have acted differently?
Although there were flaws with the advice, JLT did make Mr W aware that a transfer was 
against its advice. And this message was repeated verbally and in letters following the 
suitability report. And Im satisfied that Mr W was aware that he was acting against JLTs 
advice, as from the call recordings Ive been provided, he acknowledged as much in 
conversation with it. And he also acknowledged this meant hed be treated as an insistent 
client.But without the accurate monetary comparisons that Ive referred to, I dont think Mr W was 
in a position to make an informed decision about this. The enhancement being offered to 
him, which could be taken as cash, seems to have been the significant motivator for his 
decision. And the offer of a lump sum of over £15,000 would appeal to most consumers. But 
Mr W wasnt provided the information to consider this, in a monetary context, against the 
impact on his retirement provisions. And that context was important. So, in my view, he 
wasnt in an informed position.
I acknowledge that in one of the calls he had with JLT, it asked him to agree to the statement 
that he was satisfied he was in an informed position. And he did so. But Mr W was an 
inexperienced investor with minimal investment knowledge. And he didnt know what he 
didnt know. So, I dont think him saying he felt he was in an informed position changes my 
finding on this point.
Of course, I have to think about whether Mr W would still have gone ahead with a transfer, 
even if this further context and more in-depth explanation had been given. And in the calls 
he had with JLT he did acknowledge it had recommended he not transfer but that he was 
still interested in proceeding. And the follow up letters, providing the relevant application 
forms and acknowledging safe receipt of them, restated this. But he wasnt at any stage 
asked about the reasons for this decision by JLT. Nor was the advice discussed further over 
the phone. So, his decision to proceed seems to have solely been based on the 
recommendation letter  which as Ive said I consider was flawed, did not contain enough 
information for him to make an informed decision and unnecessarily introduced the option of 
ignoring the advice  and the offer hed been made. And again, he had minimal investment 
knowledge or experience.
I dont doubt the appeal of the enhancement or cash incentive wouldve been significant. 
And would always have been there. But there is nothing to suggest that Mr W had a purpose 
for requiring that money. And he said, in the initial questionnaire JLT asked him to complete, 
he didnt know how hed take or use the incentive if he transferred.  
If JLT, a professional adviser who he had been referred to for advice, had given a thorough 
and fully reasoned explanation as to why a transfer wasnt in Mr Ws best interest, with 
information to show, from a monetary perspective, the impact the transfer could have on his 
retirement provisions in comparison to the incentive offered  I think that advice would 
carried significantly more weight than what he was provided here. And, bearing in mind his 
inexperience and that this pension was expected to form the majority of his retirement 
provisions, if this fuller explanation had been provided, without the prospect of this 
immediately being disregarded being introduced, I think hed have accepted that advice. So, 
I think on balance he would not have insisted on a transfer and wouldve remained a 
member of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr W, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand Mr W has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, JLT may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman