DRN-3928710
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did after she 
made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2020 Miss L contacted DAS to make a claim on her policy relating to a breach of 
contract. DAS accepted the claim and the matter was referred to one of its panel solicitors 
(W). Miss L was unhappy with their progress and contacted DAS a number of times over the 
next few months; DAS followed matters up with W. In October 2020 counsel confirmed the 
claim had prospects of success and DAS provided authorisation to issue proceedings. 
In March 2021 Miss L made a complaint to W about delay in those proceedings being served 
which it responded to and updated DAS. There was further contact later that year about 
including a personal injury element within the contract claim. DAS provided authorisation for 
expert reports to be obtained. In May 2022 Miss L contacted DAS again as she remained 
unhappy with progress. DAS said it would raise this as a complaint with W and investigate 
further. The following month Miss L said she hadnt wanted to make a complaint but asked 
for the claim to be moved to an alternative panel firm. 
W said it felt the relationship with Miss L had broken down and DAS confirmed it would 
appoint another firm. However, the two alternative firms it approached were unable to act. 
So it said Miss L could appoint her own firm. She was unhappy at having to do so as shed 
previously spoken to a number of firms who werent able to act but subsequently found a 
firm who were prepared to do so. 
However, they werent prepared to act for the hourly rate DAS offered. DAS agreed to 
negotiate on that and reached agreement in August. The firm subsequently confirmed 
agreement to DASs terms of appointment and I understand has since been progressing the 
claim. 
DAS didnt think it had caused any delay in the handling of the claim and it wasnt 
responsible for finding Miss L a solicitor. And it didnt agree the policy indemnity limit should 
be increased as Miss L had requested. But it accepted some of its communication with her 
could have been better and offered to pay £150 in recognition of that. 
Our investigator thought DAS acted reasonably in raising Miss Ls concerns with W and it 
was reasonable to have treated her contact in May 2022 as a complaint. And he thought 
DAS was right to say the work W had done should count against the policy indemnity limit. 
But he thought DAS could have done more to assist Miss L in finding an alternative firm and 
it could have been clearer it would negotiate over the hourly rate for the firm shed found. He 
recommended the compensation should be increased to a total of £350. 
DAS agreed to do so. Miss L remained unhappy. In summary she said:
When she contacted DAS it assured her the matter could be transferred to an alternative 
panel firm. But she wasnt given any information about potential risks or that this might 
not be possible. If she had been she would have stayed with W;
Work by the firm now appointed would duplicate work already carried out by W. So that 
shouldnt be deducted from the indemnity limit;
The hourly rate DAS agreed with the new firm was significantly more than a panel firm 
would charge. DAS should only deduct costs from the indemnity limit at the rate a panel 
firm would have charged; 
She would be liable for any costs that exceeded the indemnity limit available under the 
policy and DAS should fund the cost of any after the event insurance she needed to 
take out to cover this. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been an extremely distressing and stressful situation for Miss L. Its 
clear the issues giving rise to her underlying legal claim have been extremely difficult for her 
and this has been a particularly challenging time. She outlined the impact of that on her 
when she spoke to DAS and I was very sorry to learn of whats happened. 
However, it does seem to me that some of her concerns relate to the actions of W. That isnt 
something I can consider. What I can look at is whether DAS acted appropriately when 
Miss L brought her concerns about W to its attention. And I think overall it did; it followed 
these issues up with W and sought updates on progress. Based on the information W 
provided in response I dont think there was further action DAS then needed to take. 
Miss L is particularly concerned about what happened after she contacted DAS in May 2022. 
She says she wasnt told it might not be possible to move to an alternative firm or given 
information about the potential risks of doing so (this followed her request for that on 16 
June). But I dont think DAS had any reason at that point to think it wouldnt be possible to 
find an alternative panel firm. It was only after it approached a number of firms it became 
apparent they wouldnt be able to take on this claim. 
I do think DAS could have explained some of the potential drawbacks to moving the claim to 
a different firm, in particular that any new firm would need to review the claim and it was 
therefore likely it would duplicate some work that had already been carried out. Miss L says 
if that had been made clear she wouldnt have asked for an alternative firm. 
However, I think W had already concluded its relationship with Miss L had broken down prior 
to any failing by DAS. In her call with DAS on 30 May Miss L was clearly unhappy with what 
she saw as delay by W and that her claim wasnt moving forward as she felt it should. 
Im satisfied it was appropriate for DAS to regard this as a complaint about the actions of W 
and raise those concerns with it. Its response said it had concerns about its ongoing 
relationship with Miss W and that trust and confidence in this was eroding. She subsequently 
asked DAS to transfer her file to a different firm on 16 June 2022 and had already advised W 
of that request. And it was that which led W to advise it was unable to continue to represent 
her and it then made its own request for the file be transferred to another firm. So even if DAS had given Miss L clearer information when she contacted it, shed already 
told W about her request (and it had advised it could no longer represent her). I think shed 
always have been in the position where an alternative firm needed to be appointed. And any 
new firm would need to review matters from the outset. I appreciate that is likely to have 
caused some duplication of work but I dont think thats come about because of anything 
DAS got wrong. And, as W werent prepared to act for Miss L and DAS was unable to find an 
alternative panel firm who would, it reasonably offered Miss L the freedom to choose her 
own solicitor. 
Miss L is unhappy the firm she found is charging more than a panel firm would and this will 
impact her indemnity limit. But while the policy gives DAS the right to appoint a panel firm 
the cover it provides is for reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the 
Representative It doesnt oblige DAS to offer a panel firm.
In any case DAS did approach a number of alternative firms but they werent able to act for 
different reasons. So it agreed Miss L could appoint her own firm and negotiated a reduction 
in the rate charged by that firm. And it has agreed to pay those costs in line with the policy 
terms. I understand Miss Ls concerns about the impact on her indemnity limit but DAS has 
provided the cover set out in her policy and did also try and find a panel firm who could act 
for her. I dont see theres a basis on which I could require it to only deduct costs from the 
indemnity limit at the panel rate.
I recognise if the claim progresses to court and Miss L is unsuccessful she would potentially 
be liable for costs in excess of that limit. But I dont think would have come about because of 
anything DAS got wrong. So I dont think it does need to cover the cost of an additional 
insurance policy as Miss L has suggested. The firm now acting for Miss L has confirmed it 
will provide ongoing advice as to whether her claim is likely be resolved within the remaining 
indemnity limit available to her. 
I do agree DAS could have done more to assist Miss L in finding an alternative solicitor when 
it was clear a panel firm couldnt act. And I also agree that, as DAS accepted, some of its 
communication with her could have been better. I appreciate this will have caused Miss L 
distress and inconvenience at what was already a very difficult time. However, I think the 
£350 our investigator recommended (and which DAS has now agreed to pay) is the right 
amount to fairly recognise the impact of that on her. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited will 
need to put things right by paying Miss L £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman