DRN-3401704
The complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc failed to refund transactions made to a 
fraudulent binary options trading company.
 
What happened
Mr A says he fell victim to a binary options scam in 2016 where eight payments totalling 
£9,232.11 were paid to a company called Marketsrally. These payments were made from his 
Capital One Mastercard in March 2016.
 
In 2016, Mr A contacted Capital One to make a claim under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Capital One issued its final response on 5 October 2016 and said the disputed 
payments to Marketsrally didnt qualify as transactions for the purposes of s.75. It gave 
referral rights to this office.
 
In 2018, Mr A complained to Capital One again and it issued a response on 9 March 2018 to 
explain that it had already dealt with the matter in 2016 and as no new points were added, it 
wouldnt consider the matter again. Mr A referred his complaint to this office in April 2018. In 
the meantime, Mr A made a new complaint to Capital One stating that Marketsrally took 
payments without his consent and he had not given his card details to an online trading 
company. He said he only noticed the transactions when he tried to pay his credit card bill. 
Capital One applied temporary credits totalling £9,232.11 (the disputed amounts) to Mr As 
credit card while it investigated his complaint. After its investigation, Capital One issued its 
final response on 19 June 2018. It said that its records showed that Mr A consented to the 
first payment via SMS, so it was satisfied he authorised the payments. Capital One 
reiterated that it had dealt with a s.75 claim for Mr As payments to Marketsrally in 2016 and 
offered to send him a copy of its final response. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She felt that his payments to Marketsrally could 
benefit from s.75 protection and suggested that Capital One refunds the payments plus the 
transaction fees. Mr A accepted this but Capital One didnt, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
On 9 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint. I provisionally decided 
that Mr As s.75 complaint had been referred to this office too late and we couldnt consider 
it. I also provisionally decided that we could consider Mr As complaint that he didnt 
authorise payments to Marketsrally but was minded to conclude that all of the payments 
were authorised by him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Capital One didnt reply and I have assumed it has nothing further to add. 
Mr A did reply, he was understandably very disappointed with the outcome given that it was 
a departure from our investigators opinion. He provided additional points for consideration 
which Ive summarised here:
He had a lot of conversations with Capital One and was told the matter would be 
investigated hence the delay in referring the matter to this office. 
He agrees with the outcome our investigator reached. 
He only authorised the first payment to Marketsrally.
Another banking provider flagged an unusual authorised payment to an overseas 
company a couple of years ago and he thinks Capital One should have done the 
same.
Mr As legal adviser asked for a written explanation behind the proposed reversal. 
Mr A also complained about the level of service he has received from this office which will be 
considered as a separate matter.
 
Ive now separated Mr As complaint issues, so this decision will focus on his complaint that 
he didnt authorise all of the disputed amounts.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As complaint that he didnt authorise the disputed amounts (other than 
the first payment) to Marketsrally. 
Mr A would not be liable for transactions he didnt make or otherwise authorise. However, I 
dont think Capital One acted unreasonably in deciding to hold Mr A liable for the disputed 
amounts for the following reasons: 
I dont find Mr As testimony to be particularly credible. He changed his account from 
notifying Capital One that all of the payments to Marketsrally were fraudulent, to 
telling this office that only some of them were fraudulent. 
Ive looked at notes provided by Capital One and Mr A confirmed via SMS that the 
first payment to Marketsrally was genuine. Further notes recorded on 3 May 2016 
state that Mr A said the transactions to Marketsrally were genuine. Later notes in 
2016 show that Mr A claimed hed met Marketsrallys trading requirements but they 
werent allowing him to withdraw his available balances. These conversations took 
place after the disputed amounts were debited from his account. This doesnt 
suggest that payments to Marketsrally were taken without his permission, rather he 
reported concerns that they werent allowing him to withdraw money from his 
platform. 
Mr A had multiple conversations with Capital One about his dispute with Marketsrally 
in 2016, so I think, on balance, he would have been aware of the payments that were 
made to them at that time. Further to this, Capital Ones final response of 5 October 
2016 (on the matter of s.75) stated the amount in dispute (not just the initial payment) 
and also noted that Mr A accepted the deposits were successful and his trading 
account was successfully credited. But Ive not seen any evidence that he reported 
that payments were taken without his permission until 2018. All the notes at the 
material time indicate that all of the disputed amounts were genuine. 
Even if I were to accept that Marketsrally compromised Mr As card details when he 
made his first payment on 11 March 2016. Theres no explanation as to why they 
would have waited for over a week to process payments without his permission - 
across multiple days - rather than depleting the account immediately as a fraudster 
would commonly do. I think this adds further weight to the argument that Mr A 
authorised the disputed amounts to Marketsrally. Overall, I dont doubt that Mr A fell victim to a scam but I do think the disputed amounts were 
made with his authorisation. 
Ive thought about Mr As point that the transactions were unusual and Capital One should 
have flagged the payments as suspicious. But Mr As complaint is that he didnt authorise 
payments to Marketsrally after the first one. So even if I agree that Capital One ought to 
have flagged the payments as suspicious, I can only consider whether that would have led to 
Mr A confirming the payments were not made by him as this is what his complaint is. As I 
think he authorised the disputed amounts, I think he would have explained this to Capital 
One if it would have intervened, so this point doesnt make a material difference to the 
outcome. 
Im empathetic to Mr As losses but based on everything Ive seen, I cannot agree the 
disputed amounts werent authorised by him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman