DRN-3608306
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc set up its account incorrectly and 
now insists that it opens a new account.
What happened
P opened an account with HSBC in 2008. It says it went through a safeguard exercise to 
confirm the details off its business which concluded in 2021. Later that year it completed a 
mandate to change the account signatories. It was then told that the account had been 
wrongly established as a sole trader and was also a community account. P doesnt want to 
have to open another account especially as it receives multiple payments.
HSBC said that it was unable to investigate what happened when the account was opened. 
And that it couldnt locate an error on its side. When the complaint was referred to this 
service it offered to pay P £350 for the inconvenience involved.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC pay P £500. He said that it was clear that the 
account had been set up incorrectly. The mandate that was completed in April 2008 was for 
a limited company and the position of the officials who were signatories was given as 
Director or Director/Secretary. The details provided from HSBC show that the account had a 
sole trader marker but also that other parts of the profile are consistent with it being for a 
limited company. The trading name of the account is given as the company name, and the 
company name as the trading name. So, this is the wrong way round. He said that HSBC 
should have identified this at the time that the account was opened. And it also missed an 
opportunity to correct this during the safeguard review although the impact for P of 
discovering that then wouldnt have been any different.
HSBC has said that details such as the entity type cant be changed after the account has 
been opened. So, it isnt possible to do that and for P to keep the same account number/ 
sort code as it wants. It will be inconvenient for P to have to open a new account and 
arrange for its clients to pay money to that, with the risk that money may be initially paid to 
the wrong account. So, he thought that higher commission was warranted.
HSBC said it accepted the recommendation.
P said it didnt and wanted an ombudsman to review the case. The issue here wasnt about 
monetary compensation but the intransigence of HSBC. As HSBC has made the mistake it 
should leave things in the way that they currently are. It is too much work for P to have to 
make all the changes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that HSBC has made a mistake here. P was incorporated early 
in 2008. HSBC was clearly made aware it had directors. Although I cant resolve exactly how 
this happened it does seem that as the trading name included the word trust this led to a 
community account type being established too. I would have expected HSBC to view 
documentation about the set up of P and for this discrepancy to have been identified at 
account opening. 
Although little consolation HSBC has pointed out that over the years the account has been 
open any fees for this community account were lower than those that would be charged for a 
company account. It also says that P had the opportunity to recognise this issue as the 
name on statements only referred to the trading name and its accountant also could have 
spotted this. I have to say I think thats a little unreasonable when HSBC failed to recognise 
this even during a safeguard exercise a number of years later. And the director of P has also 
shown that the payee name P is a match on the account for confirmation of payee when 
setting up payments and again this is another reason this didnt come to light any sooner.
Unfortunately, the position of HSBC is that even with an Ombudsmans ruling were 
simply unable to switch the account entity/type  its in place as a Sole Trader not a Limited 
Company.
I hope P understands that it would be pointless for me to require HSBC to do something it 
has clearly told me it cant do. That wouldnt assist P at all. And as much as I might 
otherwise like to be able to do so that wont here be my resolution for this complaint. I think it 
is necessary for this error to be rectified now in the way HSBC wants with a new account.
The only meaningful award I can make here is a monetary one. P hasnt asked for more 
compensation than recommended by our investigator. And while I accept that the director is 
personally frustrated about things, this is a complaint from P a separate legal entity and 
which cant suffer distress.
The inconvenience here will involve in particular opening a new account for P, moving 
existing regular payments and payment mandates over and telling all its clients where now 
to pay money and possibly following up misdirected payments. And Im afraid that is going to 
fall to P to do: its not something HSBC has said it can directly assist with. 
Having taken into account our published guidelines about compensation and applied my own 
judgement I consider that the compensation now offered is reasonable. I know the director of 
P will remain disappointed by the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay P £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman