DRN-2625489
The complaint
Mr H complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc gave incorrect information about the excess 
payable under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. And 
the key facts of the case arent in dispute. So Ill focus on explaining how Ive reached my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for the following 
reasons:
Pinnacle has accepted it made an error in the excess it stated on Mr Hs renewal 
documents. 
Although its also said that despite Mr H opting to go paperless, it sent a letter to 
Mr H with an apology, and that the correct information was also sent to him 
through the online portal, Im not persuaded Mr H was made sufficiently aware of 
the correct excess amount prior to his vet submitting the claim. This is because 
Mr H didnt receive any notifications advising him to check the online portal. And 
he says he never received the apology letter. 
While I appreciate Pinnacle says the apology letter was sent by post before the 
claim was made, I havent seen enough evidence of this. And so I think its 
possible that, due to Mr H opting to go paperless, the letter was only uploaded to 
the online portal and not sent by post.
Mr H has given evidence that shows he wouldnt have renewed the policy had he 
known the correct information about the excess, as it wouldve been cheaper for 
him to pay for his dogs medication. So Im satisfied that the higher excess 
wouldve made a difference to Mr H.
Based on the above, Im not persuaded that Pinnacle did enough to bring the 
mistake about the excess amount to Mr Hs attention before the claim was made. 
So Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Pinnacle should refund the £99 excess Mr H was charged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman