DRN-1658915
The complaint
Mr B has complained that First Central Insurance Management Limited (First Central), a 
broker he bought his motor insurance through, is trying to charge him a cancellation fee for 
cancelling his policy even though he confirmed that he has now sold his car. 
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy he bought through First Central, which he was paying by 
monthly instalments. The policy started in December 2017. In April 2018 Mr B got in touch 
with First Central via web chat and said he wanted to cancel his policy as he had sold his 
car. The advisor told him that the cost to cancel the policy would come to around £80 and 
that this included a £50 cancellation fee. Mr B said he was not prepared to pay anything 
more.
A few days later First Central wrote to Mr B and said that, in fact, the balance outstanding 
was £45.01. But Mr B didnt make any further payments. 
Mr B then complained to First Central who rejected his complaint and said that he was 
aware of its fees when he took the policy out online. It also said that if he didnt pay the 
balance due, this would affect his credit rating. 
Mr B wasnt happy with First Centrals response, so he complained to us. He said that 
First Central was trying to charge him a cancellation fee despite him providing it with 
evidence he had sold his car. He said First Central and the debt collection agency it 
instructed were threatening him with bailiffs and court action and that he believed it was 
trying to charge him a fee for non-disclosure. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the cancellation fees were clearly stated in his policy documents so First Central 
had done enough to bring these to his attention. She also didnt think that he was exempted 
from paying a cancellation fee purely because he sold his car or that First Central itself had 
done anything wrong in the way it chased him for the balance. Our investigator said that 
Mr B would have to complain to the debt collection agency separately. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Before I proceeded with my decision, I went back to First Central and said that I considered 
it responsible for the actions of the debt collection agency as I considered it to be 
First Centrals agent. I said though I didnt think First Central itself acted in a way that was 
unfair or unreasonable towards Mrs B I thought this wasnt the case when it came to the debt 
collection agency. From what I could see it was chasing Mr B for payment every few days by 
letter, text and email and this went on for months. I said on that basis, I was considering 
awarding Mr B £100 for the distress this caused him. I also asked if the debt had been 
written off. 
First Central responded to say that it would offer to write the debt off and that it was also 
prepared to offer Mr B £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. We put this 
offer to Mr B but he declined it. He said First Central threatened and bullied him with calls 
and mail about a debt that didnt exist and he didnt feel its offer reflected this. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. 
Those who sell insurance have a duty to their customers to provide them with clear 
information to enable them to make an informed choice. First Central said that Mr B applied 
for his policy online, which he hasnt disputed. Both Mr B and First Central provided us with a 
document containing a table of its fees which Mr B wouldve seen before he took the policy 
out. The fees include a non-refundable arrangement fee of £50, a non-disclosure fee of £75 
and a cancellation fee of £50 if the policy is cancelled after the first 14 days. This table is 
also in the policy documentation under Important customer information. So, I think First 
Central has done enough to bring these charges to Mr Bs attention. 
Mr Bs policy documents which are issued by First Central say that if he cancels his policy he 
will get a pro-rata premium refund which First Central will collect on behalf of the insurer (so 
he will only be charged for the number of days he was on cover). He will be also charged 
any applicable cancellation fees and also any amount he owes for any other insurance he 
may have. I dont think these terms are unusual and I think First Central can rely on them. 
From what Ive seen, when Mr B cancelled his policy First Central said he would be charged 
for the time he was on cover plus interest plus the arrangement and cancellation fees. It then 
deducted these from the payments Mr B had already paid and said the balance was £45.01. 
From what Ive seen I dont think these calculations were incorrect. 
Mr B said he was charged a fee for non-disclosure but I dont think thats the case. As I said 
above that fee wouldve been £75 whereas Mr B was charged a £50 cancellation fee. Thats 
the standard cancellation fee for having cancelled after the initial 14 days, as set out in his 
policy documents. And I think that this is a reasonable charge; so I think its fair for 
First Central to charge it. 
Mr B said that he no longer owned the car so he shouldnt have to pay anything further. I 
dont think the fact that he no longer owned the car meant he shouldnt pay what was due 
under the policy up to that point. And this would include the cancellation fee that First Central 
charged him. 
Mr B said he was threatened with bailiffs and court action and that this has affected his credit 
rating. From what Ive seen he was told there was a balance outstanding during a web chat 
and also, a few days later, in an email from First Central where it asked Mr B to call or go 
online to make this payment. It also wrote to Mr B around the same time asking him to get in 
touch before 25 April 2018 to pay the balance and said that if he doesnt, it may take 
enforcement action against him. First Central then made a final demand for payment around 
three months later, in July 2018. From what I understand it instructed a debt collection 
agency to chase the debt on its behalf around February 2019.  
As I said above, I consider First Central to be responsible for the actions of the debt 
collection agency. From what Ive seen the agency was communicating with Mr B by text, 
email and sometimes letter every three to four days between February and June 2019. I 
think that this amount of contact for such a small debt was unnecessary and I can see why 
Mr B felt he was harassed by it. Having said that, as I think that the debt was owed by Mr B in the first place I think First Central was right to chase it, though not as frequently as it did. 
For this reason, I think its offer to write the debt off and pay £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. First Central Insurance 
Management Limited should write Mr Bs £45.01 debt off and update his credit file to reflect 
this. It should also pay him £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
First Central Insurance Management Limited must take the actions above and pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If First Central Insurance Management Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman