DRN-3542844
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) gave him a loan that he couldnt
afford to repay.
What happened
Mr H took out a personal loan with TPF in October 2017. The loan amount was £6,000 and
the APR charged 14.1% making the total amount repayable £7,467.48 (over 36 months) and
the monthly repayment amount was £207.43.
In October 2020, Mr H complained to TPF that it didnt do enough to check his 
circumstances before it agreed to provide him with the loan. He said the loan led to him
experiencing financial difficulty and that there was a knock-on effect of him not getting the
mortgage he wanted.
TPF didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that it had carried out an affordability
check, including information received from credit reference agencies (CRAs) and this had
shown that the loan was affordable. It said it didnt think it was responsible for Mr H not
getting the mortgage he wanted at the rate he wanted.
Mr H remained unhappy and referred his concerns to this Service.
An investigator here asked Mr H to provide three months worth of statements for his primary
bank account, in the lead up to the loan being granted. Mr H provided these statements to
us. The investigator then issued a view upholding the complaint. They said, in summary, 
that:
- From the information TPF gathered before agreeing to lend to Mr H there were signs
that he had recently experienced problems managing his money. This was in terms of 
Mr H having taken out a number of short term loans in the twelve months leading up to 
the loan in question, with him borrowing increasing amounts.
- TPF needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure that
Mr H could sustainably meet the loan repayments. Given Mr Hs apparent reliance on 
short term lending, TPF ought to have gone further than it did to check that Mr H could 
afford the loan.
- The bank statements provided by Mr H indicate that when his average income and
expenditure are taken into account, he didnt have any spare income to be able to meet 
the loan repayments. So it was unlikely he would be able to repay the TPF loan without 
resorting to further borrowing.
- Because of this, TPF should refund Mr H all interest and charges paid on the loan
and remove any adverse information recorded on his credit file, in relation to the interest 
and charges.
TPF disagreed with the outcome. It said, in summary, that the credit information it had 
received as part of its checks, hadnt revealed any adverse information. It said that it had 
carried out additional verification on Mr Hs income  by requesting a recent bank 
statement showing his income. The statement showed that Mr Hs income was as he had 
stated.
TPF said that when it then overlaid Mr Hs expenditure  through a combination of what 
Mr H had declared himself and then using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to 
estimate other essential expenditure, the loan repayments were found to be affordable.
The investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I asked both parties for some additional information. I asked Mr H to explain how he had 
been able to keep up with the loan repayments (albeit there had been a number of 
rejected direct debits) and how he had been able to repay the loan early. Mr H said that 
he had used a number of lending facilities to juggle his debt and that he had been able to 
repay the loan after receiving an inheritance.
I asked TPF to provide:
- the loan application form or otherwise the information provided by Mr H when he applied 
for the loan.
- More detail about the income and expenditure assessment it had carried out, including 
the assumptions it had used when calculating affordability.
- Its comments on an apparent discrepancy between the extent of borrowing (and some 
missed payments on existing credit) in the lead up to the loan, visible on a recent credit 
report provided by Mr H. And the information TPF had gathered as part of the checks it 
had carried out, indicating that Mr H had little existing borrowing and no repayment 
issues.
TPF provided this information.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022. In the decision, I said:
Under the regulatory requirements, TPF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it needed to carry out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mr H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. There is no set 
list of checks a lender needed to complete, but the checks completed needed to be 
proportionate, taking into account relevant factors, such as how much was being lent, the 
loan duration, the repayment amounts and income and expenditure.
TPF has said it thinks the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate. It 
says that it verified Mr Hs income by requesting a bank statement showing his income 
and calculated affordability by then deducting expenditure based on information 
provided by Mr H (expenditure on rent and existing credit commitments) and by using 
ONS data to calculate other essential expenditure.
 
It says this showed Mr H could afford the loan repayments. It also said it obtained 
information from CRAs, which indicated that Mr H had low levels of existing debt and no 
adverse information in terms of missed/late payments etc.The investigators rationale for why the checks TPF had carried out werent proportionate, 
was that Mr Hs credit file showed he had taken out a number of Payday Loans in the lead 
up to applying for the TPF loan. They thought that in the circumstances, TPF needed to go 
further than it did to check that Mr H could afford the loan.
However, Ive seen the information TPF relied upon when it made its lending decision and 
it paints a different picture of Mr Hs circumstances, in that it suggests Mr H had little in 
the way of existing credit and there was otherwise nothing to suggest that Mr H was 
experiencing financial difficulties. So the key question here is, was it reasonable for TPF 
to rely on the CRA data it obtained, when making its lending decision?
It's not clear why the data TPF was relying on, is so different to Mr Hs actual situation, 
as illustrated by the credit file he provided to us. Im mindful that TPF was getting 
information from reputable CRAs.
All in all, I think it was reasonable for TPF to rely on the credit information it obtained. And 
since this suggested that Mr H had little existing debt with no adverse information in terms of 
things like missed or late payments, there would have been no apparent reason to look 
more closely at Mr Hs circumstances before agreeing to lend.
The income (verified) and expenditure check that TPF carried out indicated that Mr H would 
have enough disposable income to be able to meet the loan repayments. It appears from 
the information TPF supplied to me in response to my request for further information, that 
Mr H declared that he was spending £1,365 a month on existing credit repayments. This is 
incongruous with him having a total of a little over £2,000 of existing credit and ought to 
have raised something of a question mark about whether the information Mr H had provided 
was accurate.
However, Im mindful that when TPF calculated affordability incorporating the figure Mr H 
had provided, the loan repayments still showed as being affordable. Taking everything 
into account, I think the checks TPF carried out where reasonable and proportionate. And 
I think it made a fair lending decision based on the information it had.
Im also mindful that the bank statements Mr H provided to us indicate that his income was 
in fact some way lower than the figure contained in the statement TPF relied upon when it 
made its lending decision. The statements Mr H provided to us also show various Payday 
Loans that dont appear on the statement TPF relied on.
But TPF was entitled to rely upon the information it received before agreeing to lend. 
In conclusion, I currently think that TPF carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before agreeing to lend to Mr H and that it made a fair lending decision. So I dont currently
think that TPF needs to do anything further than it already has.
TPF didnt provide anything in response to my provisional findings. 
Mr H did. He questioned why the CRA data TPF relied upon didnt reflect his actual 
circumstances. He also said that any lender should have been able to see an accurate 
credit history and that if TPF had been aware of his circumstances, this would have cast 
significant doubt on the affordability of the loan. He asked me to reconsider my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still do not uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr H. 
As set out in my provisional findings (which form part of this decision), this case turns on 
whether the affordability checks TPF carried out before agreeing to lend, can be considered 
to have been proportionate given the relevant factors. And whether TPF made a fair lending 
decision based on the information that it had. 
I still find that the checks (as detailed in my provisional assessment) TPF carried out were 
proportionate, given the relevant factors  which include the size and nature of the lending in 
question and what TPF knew about Mr Hs circumstances, including the information it 
received from CRAs.
The information from CRAs remains a significant factor here because, as detailed in my 
provisional findings, the information TPF obtained and relied upon in its lending decision, 
was quite different to what is indicated from the credit report information supplied by Mr H. 
I have noted what Mr H has said  that he thinks that all lenders should have been able to 
see accurate information about his credit history and that if TPF had known about his actual 
circumstances, it would have raised questions about the affordability of the lending. 
I understand the point Mr H makes. It remains unclear why the information TPF obtained 
was so different to the picture presented by the credit history information supplied by Mr H to 
this Service. However, ultimately I come back to the fact that TPF obtained information from 
reputable CRAs. And whatever the reason for the apparent variance, I think it was 
reasonable for TPF to rely on and use the information it obtained. 
The information it obtained suggested that Mr H had low levels of existing debt, with no 
apparent signs of financial difficulty. I do however remain of the view that Mr H declaring that 
he spent £1,365 a month on existing credit repayments was incongruous with him having 
around £2,000 of existing debt (as indicated by the CRA information). And I still think this 
should have raised something of a question about whether the information Mr H had 
provided was accurate.
However, Im also still mindful that when TPF used the figure Mr H gave in its income and 
expenditure assessment (alongside the other figures as set out in my provisional findings), 
the loan repayments still showed as affordable. 
On balance, I remain of the view that the checks TPF carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate. And that it made a fair lending decision based on the information it had.
I remain mindful that the bank statements Mr H provided to us indicate that his income was 
some way lower than the figure contained in the statement TPF relied upon when it made its 
lending decision. And that the statements Mr H provided to us also show various Payday 
Loans that dont appear on the statement TPF relied upon. I still find that TPF was entitled to 
rely upon the information it received before agreeing to lend.
In conclusion, I find that TPF carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend to Mr H and that it made a fair lending decision based on the information it 
had. It follows that there are no grounds for me to say it needs to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman