DRN-2896940
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (Brazier) have charged her fees of 
£240 for cancelling her claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Mrs A says 
she never cancelled the claim and wants Brazier to refund the fee and pay compensation. 
  
What happened
Mrs A instructed Brazier in relation to a claim for mis-sold PPI on a credit card she held with 
Lender Y. Mrs A says she received a letter from Lender Y to say she didnt have PPI on her 
account and assumed the matter was closed. Mrs A says Brazier then contacted her to ask 
for proof of identity, and when she explained she had suffered a family bereavement, the call 
handler at Brazier became aggressive and threatened to fine her. Mrs A says she explained 
there wasnt any need for her to send any identity documents as Lender Y had already 
confirmed she didnt have PPI on her account. Mrs A then received an invoice charging a 
cancellation fee.  
Mrs A paid the cancellation fee to Brazier and complained about having to pay an invoice 
when she hadnt cancelled their services. Brazier responded and said Mrs A had cancelled 
their services during a call in November 2019 and the fee was in line with their terms and 
conditions.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs A. She thought that Brazier hadnt acted 
unreasonably in issuing a cancellation fee but the amount they had charged was unfair. She 
recommended Braziers cancellation fee be limited to one hours work. Mrs A agreed with 
the recommendation but Brazier disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which set out the agreement between Mrs A and 
Brazier. The terms and conditions say, under the heading Cancelling this Agreement, If 
you wish to cancel after the 14 day period, there will be a charge of £40 per hour + VAT for 
any work undertaken on your case.    
Theres no dispute here that Mrs A instructed Brazier to pursue a claim against Lender Y. 
The parties do dispute whether the claim was brought to an end by Mrs A cancelling 
Braziers services. Brazier say Mrs A was charged a cancellation fee as she wasnt willing to 
provide further information requested by Lender Y and which wouldve enabled Brazier to 
continue with the claim. 
I can see Lender Y write to Mrs A in May 2019 and say they have been unable to find any 
evidence to suggest Mrs A held a PPI policy on her account. They say theres insufficient 
evidence and they refer to an unknown account number. They ask for further information 
which might help them in their investigation. Contact notes provided by Brazier record that 
Lender Y couldnt locate Mrs A. An agent at Brazier then contacts Mrs A and the note says 
client says no thank you and hangs up. A later note says Mrs A wasnt interested and then 
a further call is made but Mrs A doesnt answer. 
There is then a note for a phone call on 25 November which says Mrs A didnt want to 
provide her email address and to send any correspondence by post. The note says the 
agent explains to Mrs A there will be cancellation charges if she doesnt send them the 
information. The note says Mrs A agreed to the charges as she doesnt have time for this. I 
can see Brazier then send an invoice to Mrs A in January 2020 for £240. 
It's important here to establish whether Mrs A did cancel her agreement. I can see our 
investigator has asked Brazier for the recording of the November 2019 call but they dont 
have this. So, Ive thought carefully about the information I have in order to decide what I 
think is more likely to have happened than not. Mrs A says she never cancelled the 
agreement during the call on 25 November. She says she was doubtful of why Brazier would 
ask for identity documents when Lender Y had already confirmed six months earlier that 
their investigation had ended. I dont however agree with Mrs As view on this. The letter 
from Lender Y does provide an outcome to the claim but this is based on them having 
insufficient evidence. Lender Y explain theyre unable to investigate further without additional 
details. And, they set out the further information they require, this includes the policy number 
of Mrs As account and the date of the policy. The terms and conditions say Mrs A must 
promptly provide Brazier with all relevant information and items they request to enable them 
to pursue her claim. So, taking this into account, I believe the phone calls shown in Braziers 
contact notes were made to try and get this further information from Mrs A. And, I cant see 
this further information was ever sent to Brazier. So, in view of the fact Mrs A never provided 
the further information, and taking into account Mrs As testimony that she didnt see why 
she needed to send further information as she believed the investigation was closed, I think 
its more likely than not Mrs A did give Brazier sufficient reason to believe she had decided 
to cancel her claim. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Brazier to issue a cancellation 
fee for the work they carried out as the terms and conditions allow them to take such steps. 
This takes me to the next point, which is the cancellation fee Brazier have charged and 
whether this is fair and reasonable. Brazier say their charges are £40 + VAT per hour and is 
based on work carried out on two claims. They say it includes time spent by different agents, 
printing and posting of forms and calls and emails to Mrs A. I can see our investigator has 
asked for a detailed breakdown of the work done setting out what each item of work 
involved. Brazier have replied to say they have taken into account paper costs, printing 
costs, postage costs and labour costs. They also say they tried to call Mrs A on a number of 
occasions and all these attempts carry a cost to Brazier. 
Ive looked carefully at the case notes provided by Brazier which set out the work they 
carried out. Brazier have charged for five hours work but, from the information Ive seen, Im 
not persuaded the work justifies five hours of time spent. Firstly, I cant see Brazier are 
acting in two claims here. Brazier have provided two Letters of Authority for a claim against 
Lender Y. But, both of these are for the same claim. The letter from Lender Y does make 
reference to them finding a loan account in addition to the credit card account, but I cant see 
Brazier have then acted in two separate claims. And, it was after this point that Brazier say 
Mrs A cancelled their services. So, Im satisfied there was only one claim being processed 
for Mrs A. Secondly, the case notes show Brazier submitted the claim and thereafter any 
updates are largely system automated and sent out to customers in bulk. I havent seen any 
evidence of any further substantive work carried out. 
I agree there are a number of calls made but the majority of these calls are under 30 
seconds  and I dont think this suggests there was any substantive discussion. In addition to this, a number of those calls note the outcome as No answer or Hung up. So, Im not 
persuaded the phone calls demonstrate five hours of work carried out. 
The main work which appears to have been carried out here is the submission of the claim 
and that generally involves a standardised process where a business will forward a Letter of 
Authority to a lender. I cant see Brazier have carried out other significant work to justify a 
fee for five hours work. I note Brazier refer to postage, paper and printing costs but I cant 
see from their terms and conditions there is a separate itemised charge for this. And, on that 
basis, I think its reasonable to take the view that those costs are incorporated within the £40 
per hour fee. So, taking into account the work set out in the case notes, I think one hour is a 
fair representation of the work which has been carried out.     
I understand Mrs A was left upset after the phone call on 25 November. She feels the agent 
was aggressive and rude even after she had explained her personal circumstances. I 
havent been able to listen to the recording of this call as Brazier say they dont have it. So, I 
do sympathise with Mrs A if she was left upset and worried after this call but I cant conclude 
there has been an error with the customer service here. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Brazier have acted unfairly in charging Mrs A for five hours work. Im 
satisfied Brazier are entitled to a cancellation fee in line with the terms and conditions but 
this should be limited to one hour of work  which is £40 + VAT. Mrs A has paid a fee of 
£240 to Brazier so they should retain £40 + VAT and refund the difference to Mrs A. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Brazier Consulting Services Ltd should retain 
£40 + VAT from the cancellation charges paid by Mrs A and must refund her the difference. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman