DRN-3577245
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined Mrs Ls claim and added an 
exclusion to their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in March 2020, Mr and Mrs L had advice from a broker and 
switched their private medical cover to Aviva. The cover was on a continued medical 
exclusions basis, which means that any pre-existing conditions were covered to the 
extent they were covered by the previous insurer.  
In September 2020, Mrs Ls intermittent knee pain got worse and she consulted her GP 
who referred her to a consultant orthopaedic surgeon. In November 2020, Mrs L was 
diagnosed with osteoarthritis in both knees. In July 2021, Mrs L made a claim against the 
policy in relation to knee replacement surgery. Aviva asked for further information. 
In August 2021, Aviva declined Mrs Ls claim. It said that Mrs L hadnt answered its 
switch declaration correctly in that she hadnt mentioned her knee symptoms. It said that 
if it had been aware of the true position it would have excluded treatment in relation to 
Mrs Ls knee joints. Mrs L proceeded with the planned operation and Mr and Mrs L paid 
for the treatment. 
Mr and Mrs L say that at the time they switched their cover to Aviva, they didnt know 
that Mrs L had osteoarthritis. They say that it was difficult to communicate with Aviva 
about their claim and that Aviva declined the claim the day before the planned operation. 
Mr and Mrs L want Aviva to reimburse them in relation to the medical expenses they 
have paid and to provide further cover in relation to treatment of Mrs Ls knees. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint should be upheld. The investigator said that based on the medical evidence and 
the information provided in support of the claim, it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that  
Mrs L had problems with her knees in the 12 months before Mr and Mrs L took out the 
policy. He said that Mrs L should have disclosed that information in the application form. The 
investigator said that Aviva had acted fairly.  
Mr and Mrs L dont agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
They say that at the time of their application to Aviva there was no particular problem with 
Mrs Ls knees. Mr and Mrs L says that osteoarthritis wasnt diagnosed until November 2020, 
and that Mrs Ls condition had deteriorated by July 2021. They say that it was difficult to 
recall times and answer questions put to them by Aviva. Mr and Mrs L say that if theyd 
known that occasional knee pain and the bowing of Mrs Ls legs were caused by arthritis, 
they would have told Aviva. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs L have strong feelings about this matter. 
Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this 
carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that                 
Mr and Mrs L wont take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central 
issues in the case.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks that Mrs L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she completed the declaration, which says as follows:
10. Declaration
[]
To apply for cover without further medical underwriting, please answer the question in 
Section A below by ticking the appropriate box. Please thoroughly read Section B below and 
only sign and date the application form if you can declare that all the statements in Section B 
are correct. You must provide full, truthful and accurate answers, and anything disclosed 
may be subject to an exclusion.
Section A
1. Have you or any person to be covered by this policy experienced symptoms, or had any 
consultations, diagnostic tests or treatment in the last 12 months or do you currently have 
appointments planned with a GP, specialist or a hospital in the future?
[]
Mr and Mrs L ticked the box for Yes. The declaration goes on to say:
If you have answered yes to any of the above questions, please provide further details 
below
Mr L disclosed information about two conditions. Mrs L didnt disclose any information. 
I think that the question Aviva asked was clear. I dont think that Mrs L took reasonable care 
in answering it. I say that because in the letter dated 13 November 2020, Mrs Ls consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon said that Mrs L had fairly long-standing knee problems. And in 
answering the questions Aviva put to Mrs L she said shed noticed that her legs had become 
bowed over the last couple of years. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mrs L had symptoms relating to her knees in the 12 
months before Mr and Mrs L switched their policy to Aviva.  Mr and Mrs L say that if Mrs L had been diagnosed with osteoarthritis, they would have told 
Aviva. And they say that Mrs L didnt see her GP about her knees in the twelve months 
before she took out the policy with Aviva. But the question Aviva asked at the time               
Mr and Mrs L switched their cover didnt only ask for information about diagnosis or GP 
visits; it also asked about symptoms. 
Aviva says  and I accept  that it if had known the true position, it would have excluded 
cover for treatment of Mrs Ls knee joints. This means Im satisfied that Mrs Ls 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. It appears that Aviva classified Mrs Ls 
misrepresentation as merely careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. I dont think that it 
acted unfairly in doing so. Avivas actions in declining the claim and adding an exclusion to 
the policy are in line with the actions it can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
Mr and Mrs L say that it was difficult to communicate with Aviva during their claim. This 
service cant direct Aviva generally about the systems it uses to communicate with 
policyholders. Aviva is entitled to ask for further information and gave its decision about the 
claim soon after it had received all the information it required. I appreciate that was very near 
to the date of the operation but that wasnt Avivas fault. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mrs Ls claim or in adding an exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ls policy. So, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman