DRN-4038706
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed 
its current account and terminated its Bounce Back Loan facility.
Mr A is Fs director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
F held a current account and £50,000 Bounce Back Loan with Barclays. Mr A also held an 
account with the bank, as did other companies of which he is a director.
Following a review of its relationship with Mr A and the companies he operated, Barclays 
decided to withdraw its services. This led to it closing Fs account and terminating its Bounce 
Back Loan in February 2021. The bank subsequently used the funds held in Fs account, of 
just over £47,000, to reduce the amount owed on the loan  leaving a balance of around 
£2,800 that became immediately payable.
In response to Mr As complaint, Barclays overturned its decision to close Fs account and 
offered to reopen it. But it maintained its decision to withdraw the Bounce Back Loan, as it 
didnt think F met the eligibility requirements that applied under the Loan Scheme rules. In 
summary, it doesnt think F has shown that it was trading prior to 1 March 2020 as required  
or, even if it was, that it had the requisite turnover to qualify for a £50,000 loan (as applicants 
could borrow no more than 25% of their annual turnover, F needed a turnover of at least 
£200,000).
Mr A says F was eligible for the loan it obtained, having been trading at the necessary point 
in time. He believes hes provided sufficient evidence of this to Barclays, which also took 
steps to verify the position prior to approving the loan. He says he used a projected turnover 
figure when applying for the loan, which the rules of the Scheme allowed. So he doesnt 
think Barclays has treated F fairly, and wants the bank to reinstate the loan.
In response to our investigation, Barclays offered to write off the outstanding amount on the 
withdrawn Bounce Back Loan. But it remained unwilling to reinstate the loan, as it still wasnt 
satisfied that F had demonstrated its entitlement to the funds.
As Mr A didnt want to accept the banks offer, the complaint was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think Barclays had acted fairly in closing Fs account or in recalling 
the Bounce Back Loan. On the latter, she said that F had used a projected turnover figure as 
required and thought Mr A had provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that his estimate 
was reasonable, and that the company was trading at the requisite time too. So she 
recommended that the bank reinstate the loan and pay F £400 compensation for the 
inconvenience that this  and the erroneous closure of its account  had caused the 
company.
Mr A accepted our investigators view but Barclays didnt. While it was willing to pay the 
£400 compensation, it refused to reinstate the Bounce Back Loan. It said it had some 
concerns as to the affordability of the loan for F, given that the company had been unable to 
keep up with repayments prior to the termination. It also pointed to an attempt by Mr A to 
dissolve the company in June 2021. It did, though, offer to consider offering F a loan on 
similar terms subject to the company passing its affordability checks.
Mr A rejected Barclays counteroffer, as he still wanted the Bounce Back Loan to be 
reinstated. And so with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
My initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator. So I shared my provisional 
findings with both parties last month, providing them with the opportunity to send me any 
further comments or evidence they wanted me to take into account before making a final 
decision. I said:
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a 
business could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular 
relevance here, these included that the applicant business was trading on or before 
1 March 2020. In addition, applicants could borrow no more than 25% of their annual 
turnover (which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 calendar year). 
Barclays refusal to reinstate the Bounce Back Loan is based on its belief that F didnt 
meet these requirements. 
Ive carefully considered all that both parties have said and provided to us, including 
all of the documents that Mr A has provided in an effort to evidence Fs eligibility for 
the Bounce Back Loan. Having done so, I think Barclays position is reasonable. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Looking firstly at the question of whether F was trading on or before 1 March 2020, 
there is very little documentary evidence of the company having actually conducted 
any activity that might constitute trading at the requisite time. The company was 
incorporated in December 2019, but this alone wouldnt confirm that it was trading. 
Mr A has provided some documentation relating to business premises that predates 
1 March 2020, but Im not persuaded that occupying a premises would constitute 
trading. 
Ultimately, I dont think there is enough evidence to demonstrate that F was 
generating any income as a result of the services it purportedly offers. Mr A has 
highlighted transactions running through his personal account as being those relating 
to Fs trading activity. But hes not provided us with any documentary evidence to 
verify the position  such as invoices, contracts or other correspondence that would 
show the payments being made in connection with Fs business. 
Either way, even if I were to accept that F was trading at the requisite time, I think 
Barclays concerns as to the companys turnover are reasonable. F needed an 
annual turnover of £200,000 or more to qualify for the £50,000 Bounce Back Loan it 
obtained. Mr A declared that the company had such a turnover when submitting Fs 
application. But there is very little evidence to substantiate this.
As F was established after 1 January 2019, it had been entitled to use an estimated 
turnover figure for the purposes of its loan application. But that doesnt mean any 
figure could be used and there was still an obligation on the applicant to provide 
accurate information within their application. Mr A has provided us a breakdown of 
how he calculated this figure and copies of the contracts on which it was purportedly 
based. But hes declined to provide us evidence that F went on to receive this 
income. I would expect this to be available, as there is no suggestion that the work was dependent on the loan funds. This would support the reasonableness of the 
projection. Its absence raises questions as the reliability of the projection, and the 
other documents that Mr A has provided to support the figure he declared (being self-
prepared accounts and tax returns). 
This, along with the lack of demonstrable trading activity prior to the loan application 
and an attempt to dissolve the company in 2021, lead me to think that Barclays had 
legitimate cause to doubt the information that F attested to when making its 
application, and therefore its eligibility for the loan it had obtained.
The terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan agreement entitled Barclays to 
terminate and recall the loan in such circumstances and so  given all Ive said 
above  I think that was a reasonable course of action.
Under the terms and conditions of Fs account and the loan agreement, Barclays also 
had the right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held by F 
in any other account with Barclays towards the repayment of any amounts it was 
owed by the company. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in removing the 
funds from Fs account and applying these to reduce the amount it was owed under 
the Bounce Back Loan agreement. 
That isnt quite the end of the matter, as I think Mr A raises a valid point in 
highlighting that Barclays carried out a manual review of the application  including 
asking some questions with a view to verifying Fs eligibility  before approving the 
request and providing the loan. So Ive thought about whether Barclays ought 
reasonably to have declined the application at the outset, and thereby prevented the 
situation arising. But I cant say the bank was at fault for proceeding to approve the 
loan, given that it was still entitled to accept at face value what Mr A was saying and 
was under no obligation to verify each of the declarations hed made. The bank 
satisfied itself of Fs eligibility at the time, and proceeded in good faith on that basis. It 
was only when it subsequently conducted a more thorough review that the bank had 
cause to consider F ineligible, and I dont think it ought necessarily to have done so 
any sooner.
Turning finally to the closure of Fs bank account, it is hard for me to see  given all 
Ive said above  how Barclays did anything wrong. The terms and conditions of the 
account allowed for its immediate closure in certain circumstances. I think the banks 
concerns as to Fs entitlement for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained  and 
therefore the banks need to recover the funds as expeditiously as possible  would 
be sufficient to justify the closure of the account. It was always going to utilise the 
entire balance to repay the Bounce Back Loan, leaving F with no funds to access 
anyway. And given the absence of any demonstrable trading activity on Fs part, it is 
hard to see how the closure of this account impacted the companys operations.
Taking all of this into account, I dont currently intend to require Barclays to take any 
further action in response to this complaint. This means I wont be requiring the bank 
to honour any of the offers its previously made to settle the complaint. It would be 
helpful if the bank could confirm, in its response to this provisional decision, whether 
these offers remain open to F in light of what Ive said in case Mr A, on reflection, 
wishes to accept one.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. It also said that the offers it had previously made 
to settle Fs complaint were now withdrawn.
Mr A didnt accept my provisional decision. He replied to say, in summary, that:Barclays had only closed Fs bank account after detecting fraudulent activity within it, 
and it was later confirmed that no such activity had occurred.
He had provided information, including invoices and contracts, to verify the estimated 
turnover of £200,000 hed provided  which in itself was conservative. That estimate, 
he maintained, was all he needed to demonstrate Fs eligibility for the loan  and 
neither Barclays nor our service were entitled to ask for any further evidence to 
substantiate this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen any reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ill explain 
why my position hasnt changed in light of Mr As response.
Firstly, Mr A doesnt think Barclays or our Service are entitled to ask for further information 
about Fs eligibility; in essence to question the companys entitlement to the loan after it had 
been given. But that isnt the case. Barclays was entitled to review the companys eligibility 
at any point after the loan was given  and indeed it was expected to, in line with its anti-
fraud obligations under the Loan Scheme rules and the broader legal and regulatory 
framework. 
It was still up to Mr A to decide what, if anything, to provide in response to the banks queries 
(and, subsequently, ours). I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think the 
information he had provided was sufficient to evidence Fs entitlement to the loan. While 
Mr A has expressed his disagreement with those findings, hes not sent me any further 
evidence to demonstrate Fs trading activity or turnover. Hes mentioned that he provided 
utility bills, contracts and invoices. I noted these in my provisional decision  and explained 
why I didnt think they were sufficient, primarily in light of the absence of anything to show F 
ever receiving any of the income that it was purportedly to receive from those invoices and 
contracts. 
Having been provided with no further evidence as to Fs trading activity, I still dont think 
Mr A has sufficiently evidenced Fs eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan such that Barclays 
ought reasonably to reinstate it.
Lastly, I note Mr A disagrees that Fs account was closed due to the issues with the Bounce 
Back Loan and believes that this was actually the result of the bank mistakenly concluding 
that there had been fraudulent activity on the account. Barclays told us that the account was 
closed due to the concerns it had over Fs entitlement to the loan, and from what Ive seen I 
think that was the case. The matter has been slightly confused, perhaps, by the banks 
decision to reopen the account later. But I dont think the reason for the closure has affected 
things. Ultimately, Barclays wouldve been entitled to close the account given the legitimate 
concerns with Fs Bounce Back Loan application even if the closure was prompted by 
another reason at the time (and even if that other reason was unfounded). In short, whatever 
the reason, I dont think Fs position was impacted. For the reasons Ive explained, I think 
Barclays was entitled to withdraw the loan from F and close its account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman