DRN-4196527
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Fluro Platform Limited (Fluro) unfairly brought about an 
unaffordable loan for him. He said he the loan was unaffordable as his credit score was poor 
and his use of credit was already high. Hes also said that his credit report would have 
shown that he had recently applied for another loan. 
Background
Fluro operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr M being provided 
with a loan in October 2022. The loan was for £1,000.00. The agreement had a 24-month 
term and the total amount of £1,260.04, including interest and other charges of £260.04, was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £52.54.
Mr Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Fluro hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint be 
upheld. As Mr M disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Fluro needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could 
afford to make the monthly payments before bringing about this loan for him. Our website 
sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
This was Mr Ms first agreement with Fluro. And as I understand it, Fluros enquiries into         
Mr Ms circumstances consisted of asking him about his employment and income as well as 
some information about his income. I also understand that Fluro cross checked Mr Ms 
declaration of income against the funds going into his account each month and it also carried 
out a credit check which showed Mr M had some existing credit commitments with no 
significant previous repayment issues.
Crucially, the credit search also indicated that Mr Ms existing indebtedness wasnt 
excessive considering his monthly income. As there was no significant adverse information 
on Mr Ms credit file and the monthly loan repayments were low, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Fluro to rely on the information provided, which suggested that the monthly 
repayments were affordable. 
I accept that Mr M says he had difficulty making the payments to this agreement and Im 
sorry to hear this. I also accept that its possible Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Fluro obtained. I 
know that Mr M says that Fluro should have obtained bank statements from him. 
It is fair to say that in certain circumstances it would be appropriate for a lender to ask for 
bank statements. Indeed this is typically what mortgage providers would require before 
deciding to lend. However, Fluro wasnt bringing about a mortgage for Mr M. It was providing 
a loan for a very small sum  certainly in comparison to a mortgage - with low monthly 
payments. 
Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender 
did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies 
or signs of difficulty in the information gathered, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr M is suggesting. Im 
therefore satisfied that Fluro carried out proportionate checks based on the circumstances at 
the time. And as those checks suggested the repayments would be affordable for Mr M, I 
dont think that Fluro did anything wrong in approving this loan. 
So overall I dont think that Fluro treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when bringing about 
his agreement. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Mr M as a result of any 
difficulties he might have gone on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding his complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman