DRN-2764250
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the settlement of her claim and the service from Assurant General 
Insurance Limited. Mrs W made a claim for her damaged phone under her mobile phone 
insurance which was included as part of her back account. 
What happened
Mrs W made a claim when she damaged her mobile phone. The claim was accepted, and 
she was asked to send her phone for repair and pay the £50 excess. The repair centre was 
unable to repair her phone as the engineers felt it was beyond repair. 
To settle the claim Assurant offered Mrs W the choice of some alternative handsets or a 
cash settlement for £329.00, which was the value of Mrs Ws mobile phone. After taking a 
short time to consider her options Mrs W decided to accept one of the handsets offered by 
Assurant. After receiving the replacement phone Mrs W found out the phone wasnt brand 
new and was a remanufactured one. Mrs W wasnt happy with this and complained to 
Assurant, she asked to return the phone and requested the cash settlement originally 
offered.
 
Assurant apologised that the service wasnt in line with Mrs Ws expectations but didnt 
uphold her complaint and said it had fulfilled the claim correctly, within the terms and 
conditions. Mrs W remained unhappy and referred the complain to our service. 
Mrs W raised further issues with the claim including that Assurant hadnt provided 
accessories, any documentation or warranty with the replacement phone as she would have 
had with her new handset. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think 
Assurant had acted unreasonably in the way it handled the claim. Mrs W disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide if Assurant has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances taking 
into account the relevant law, regulations and guidance. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ws phone insurance policy allows Assurant to settle the claim by either repairing the 
phone, providing a replacement or by offering a cash settlement. 
The policy wording says:
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either: 
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or 
(2) replace it with a mobile of the same make, model and memory size. If we cannot 
do this you will be given a choice of models with equivalent specifications
Replacements 
Where we replace the mobile phone the replacement may be a remanufactured (not 
brand new) device.
We will attempt to replace your phone with one of the same colour but we cant 
guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile phones.
Looking at the wording of the policy I think Assurant has acted in line with this. I appreciate 
Mrs W feels this should have been explained again when she was making the claim and it 
may have been good practice to do so, but the terms and conditions are clearly set out in her 
policy document and I cant say that Assurant acted unfairly in following the terms.  
Mrs W is also unhappy that no accessories were provided with the new handset, but 
Mrs W didnt report that her current accessories had been damaged so I wouldnt have 
expected them to be considered under the claim. I understand that the accessories from her 
old mobile phone were compatible with the new handset provided by Assurant. Assurant 
also confirmed that had the accessories not been compatible with the new handset it would 
have provided these and thats what Id expect. 
Mrs W said her mobile phone would have had a lengthy warranty and shed only had it a 
short time. Shes said no documentation was provided by Assurant in relation to the new 
handset. The investigator contacted Assurant about this, and it confirmed that all the 
replacement phones it provides come with a 12-month warranty, so I dont think Mrs W has 
lost out on the warranty with the new handset either.  
I understand Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision, but I need to be sure that 
Assurant handled the claim unreasonably or unfairly. Mrs W mentioned that some of the 
wording in the terms and conditions wasnt clear or defined. While Assurant could have 
explained it wasnt a brand new phone during the claim process  it didnt have to, so I dont 
think it acted unreasonably or unfairly in the way it settled the claim. 
Mrs W has also mentioned the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Under that legislation Assurant 
must perform its service under the policy with reasonable care and skill. Ive considered 
what Assurant has done in line with the policy terms and I think the terms and conditions are 
clear and set out how Assurant will handle any claims. 
Assurant correctly inspected Mrs Ws phone but was unable to repair it, so offered her a 
choice of alternative phones or a cash settlement. Mrs W chose to take a replacement 
phone and the claim was settled, as I would reasonably expect it to be in line with the policy 
terms. Mrs W subsequently wanted to reject the phone and take the cash settlement but 
theres no requirement that Assurant had to do this, as the claim had already been settled. 
So, taking all the above into consideration, I wont be asking Assurant to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman