DRN-2922707
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt inform her that her credit card had been 
cancelled and didnt provide her with a replacement card.  
What happened
Mrs S was renting a holiday car and needed to leave a credit card authorisation of £2,500 
with the car rental company to satisfy their security requirements. The day before she was 
due to pick up the car, Mrs S discovered that her credit card had been cancelled by 
Sainsburys some time ago because of potential fraud, and so couldnt be used to provide 
the authorisation that the rental car company required. 
Mrs S didnt have any alternative credit cards and she tried to find alternative means of 
providing the security that the rental car company wanted, but without success. The only 
option left available to Mrs S was to purchase a higher level of insurance at an additional 
cost of £220. Mrs S wasnt happy that shed had to bear this additional cost and she felt that 
Sainsburys hadnt informed her that her card had been cancelled or provided a replacement 
card. So, she made a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at this complaint, but they noted that they had sent a letter to Mrs S at 
the time that her card was being cancelled explaining what was taking place and that they 
had sent a replacement card to Mrs Ss address. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Sainsburys hadnt 
been unable to provide proof that the replacement card had been sent to Mrs S, and they felt 
that it was reasonable for Mrs S, having not received any communication from Sainsburys, 
to have assumed that her credit card, which wasnt in danger of expiring, should still have 
been usable. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mrs Ss favour and that 
Sainsburys should reimburse Mrs S the £220 plus 8% interest.
Sainsburys didnt agree with the recommendations put forward by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see both sides of the dispute here, and I feel that this is potentially a 
case where nothing particularly wrong has taken place, but where an unfair outcome has 
still arisen as a result.
I say this because Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Sainsburys did send a letter 
to Mrs S explaining that her card was being cancelled at the time that it had been cancelled, 
and Im also satisfied that its more likely than not that Sainsburys also sent Mrs S a 
replacement card around that time.
However, Mrs S has stated that she didnt receive either the letter or the replacement card, 
and Im equally satisfied that its more likely than not that this was indeed the case.
Unfortunately, this resulted in a situation where Sainsburys believed that Mrs S had been 
informed that her card had been cancelled and had been supplied a replacement, while Mrs 
continued to believe that her cancelled card remained active and available for use. And 
ultimately this resulted in Mrs S incurring an additional cost of £220.
The question then becomes one of which party I consider should fairly meet the additional 
cost that Mrs S paid, and after careful consideration I feel that it was more incumbent on 
Sainsburys to have ensured that the cancellation of the card had been understood by Mrs S 
that it was on Mrs S to have confirmed that the card, which she reasonably thought 
remained active, was indeed so. And one reasons I say this is because Mrs Ss card wasnt 
due to expire at that time and that therefore the change of card wouldnt have been expected 
by Mrs S at the time that it was cancelled.
Sainsburys have stated that the statements that they sent to Mrs S included the new card 
number, and that Mrs S ought to have been aware that her card had changed having 
reviewed her statement and noticed that the card number listed was different from the 
physical card she held. But Im not convinced by Sainsburys position here, and I wouldnt 
consider that a customer should review the card number on a statement to check that the 
card hasnt been changed without their knowledge as being a reasonable expectation for 
Sainsburys to make.
So, while I can appreciate that Sainsburys might not agree with my decision here, I will be 
upholding this complaint in Mrs Ss favour and instructing Sainsburys to reimburse the £220 
additional cost that Mrs S incurred as well as 8% interest. I hope that Sainsburys can 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
Putting things right
Sainsburys must pay £220 to Mrs S, along with 8% interest calculated from 24 September 
2020 until the payment date.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman