DRN-4228896
The complaint
Mrs B complains Scottish Widows Limited (SW) didnt allow her to take her Tax-Free Cash 
Lump sum (TFCLS) from the non-guaranteed annuity rate(non-GAR) element of her pension 
plan. SW said any TFCLS had to be take proportionately across both the GAR and Non-
GAR elements of her pension. As a result, she didnt take her TFCLS and feels she has lost 
out financially.
What happened
Mrs B has reached her nominal retirement age on a with-profits policy she held with SW.
She enquired about her pension benefits and was told the larger part of her pension benefits 
had a GAR element and a smaller part has no GAR attached to it. Mrs B wanted to take her 
full entitlement of 25% TFCLS by taking the whole non-GAR element and small proportion of 
the part of her pension that had a GAR attached to it. The remaining funds would be used to 
purchase an annuity with a guaranteed annuity rate applicable.
Initially SW told her she could take this course of action but subsequently informed her that it 
wasnt possible for he to take her TFCLS in this manner and the full entitlement would need 
to be taken proportionately across both elements of her pension.
It apologised for the misinformation it had provided and extended to deadline to allow Mrs B 
to make an informed decision. 
Mrs B wanted to ensure she secured the element of her pension with a GAR attached and 
so chose not to take a TFCLS at all rather than it be spread proportionately over the two 
elements of her pension.
Disappointed, she complained to SW.
In its first final response issued on 12 December 2022, SW acknowledged it had given her 
misinformation but explained the policy was to split the TFCLS proportionality across both 
elements of her pension. It said it would provide the policy wording in an email to her.
Mrs B remained dissatisfied and pointed to HMRC regulations which she felt demonstrated it 
was possible to take her TFCLS from the non-GAR arrangement.
SW issued a second final response on 26 January 2023, it said it had looked carefully at Mrs 
Bs concerns. It said the decision was a business decision due to system capability and 
unfortunately couldnt be changed.
Dissatisfied Mrs B brought her complaint to his service.
An investigator looked into matters for Mrs B, she upheld her complaint for the poor 
customer service she had received and asked SW to pay her £100 by way of compensation 
but she said she couldnt ask SW to change a policy decision on how it calculated the 25% 
TFCLS across the whole of the policy as this was a standard industry practice and she didnt 
agree it had acted unfairly in doing so.
SW accepted the investigators findings and agreed to pay Mrs B £100.
Mrs B didnt agree. She felt other arrangements have been able to take the TFCLS from the 
non-GAR element of policies and she pointed to her pension provision that only stipulated 
the proportionality applied where the policy was made up of different investments such as 
with-profits and unit linked elements. She asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same outcome as our investigator. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs B and by SW. 
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs B has done and, Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Mrs Bs 
frustration at the failure of SW to provide her TFCLS in the proportion she has asked to take 
it.
Mrs B has referred to a number of other policies where it may or may not be possible to take 
a TFCLS in a different proportion where there is a GAR and non-GAR element to the plan. 
So, I think its important to clarify that I can only look at the conditions of her policy which is 
with-profits plan and look to see if SW has acted fairly and reasonably in its actions.
Deciding how and when to take benefits from a pension plan is a complicated business. 
Each individual will need to look at their own circumstances to determine the best way to do 
so. This is why providers signpost consumers to independent advice if they are in anyway 
uncertain about how to proceed. 
I appreciate that when Mrs B spoke to a representative at SW in June 2022, she was given 
incorrect information about how she could take her tax-free lump sum. Im satisfied that SW 
recognised that and corrected the information giving Mrs B further time to make her decision 
on her pension benefits.
It would have been helpful to gain independent advice at this time or approach Pension Wise 
for some guidance on her options. I understand Mrs B didnt feel she had the time to do so 
but in my view she had around 5-6 months to take to seek advice which I think is sufficient 
time and could have been of great assistance to her.
Its probably useful to point out here is a difference between the policy itself and the 
elements within it. Mrs B holds a with-profit policy which has two elements within it. A GAR 
for a given amount and the remaining value of the fund does not attract a GAR (the non-
GAR element). So, whilst I can understand, especially with the given amounts, why Mrs B 
wanted to take all the non-GAR element as her tax-free cash, this was not an option 
available to her.I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and whilst I appreciate the points Mrs 
B raises regarding other policies, including those with a unit linked feature (which doesnt 
apply to her policy) I wasnt able to point out a provision which would allow Mrs B to request 
her TFCLS could be take proportionately in way she wanted. 
As out investigator mentioned it is a standard industry practice to calculate the 25% TFCLS 
across the whole policy. SW has said it is a business decision to calculate the amount 
across the whole policy and Im afraid I cannot direct it to do otherwise. 
Once SW corrected the information it had given and gave Mrs B the options about the 
TFCLS, it apologised and gave Mrs B further time to make her decision. There was always 
the option to take a TFCLS but ultimately, Mrs B made the decision not to take it. So, I cant 
say that SW prevented Mrs B from making an informed decision or that it acted unfairly in 
applying a business decision that is in line with industry practice.
I agree with the investigator regarding an award for the distress an inconvenience of 
receiving incorrect information on two occasions. Although this was corrected it led Mrs B to 
believe she would be able to take her TFCLS proportionality and I can understand her 
disappointment when she discovered this was not the case.
Because SW corrected its errors and provided the correct information as well as additional 
time for Mrs B to reach her decision I find £100 to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to 
pay Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman