DRN-3484346
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 October 2020, Mr R reversed his car and a third party said their vehicles collided. They 
then made a claim for damage and personal injury. Aviva accepted liability based on the 
dash cam footage and paid the requested settlement amount for the damage. The personal 
injury claim was later withdrawn.
Mr R then complained to Aviva, in summary he said the claim was fraudulent and no 
collision or damage occurred. Aviva then reviewed their decision and asked their engineer to 
consider the damage the third party had claimed for. In response, the engineer said some of 
the damage was impossible to have occurred and other parts were improbable. So, Aviva 
agreed they should have done more to investigate the damage before they settled the claim.
To put things right for Mr R, they agreed to record the incident as notification only. They later 
explained to our service that due to what they believe is a technicality, the incident isnt 
showing on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE) at all.
Mr R then referred his complaint to our service. In summary, he said he hadnt been treated 
fairly and to put things right, Aviva should pay him the same amount in compensation ( 
approximately £4,400) they paid the third party insurer. He also feels they should investigate 
the claim further on the grounds of fraud. 
Before our investigator reached her opinion, Aviva offered to pay Mr R £150 compensation 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience hed experienced due to this matter. However, Mr R 
didnt think this offer went far enough. He said the claim had impacted his mental health and 
Aviva should have done more to investigate the matter and keep him involved. 
Our investigator concluded Mr R had been offered a reasonable resolution to his complaint, 
so she didnt think Aviva should do anything more. 
Mr R then requested a final decision. He provided detailed submissions explaining why he 
felt he hadnt been treated fairly, but our investigators opinion remained the same. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has raised several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint. I would also like to reassure Mr R and 
Aviva that although I have only summarised the background and arguments in the section 
above, I have read and considered everything provided about this complaint in its entirety.
It isn't my place to decide who is actually liable for the accident at the heart of this complaint, 
that would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether Aviva have applied 
the terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and whether they have dealt with the claim 
fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Aviva and Mr R - the policy's terms and 
conditions. Under the terms of the policy, Aviva can independently decide whether to defend 
a claim or settle it. This might mean Aviva makes a decision that Mr R disagrees with, as has 
happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor insurance policies allow 
insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably 
investigate a claim and consider the evidence available before making their decision on 
liability. 
Aviva have accepted they should have done more to investigate the damage the third party 
claimed for, before they settled the claim. They also decided to record the claim as a 
notification only incident instead of a fault claim. I think this was appropriate as a notification 
only record means an insurer has been notified of an incident, but no claim has been 
pursued. While this isnt technically accurate here as Aviva settled the claim, it means Mr R 
hasnt been disadvantaged by their decision. I wouldnt expect Aviva to remove all record of 
the incident as its clear they were contacted about it. While Mr R will strongly disagree with 
me, Im also satisfied the dash cam footage suggests an incident occurred. In any event, it 
appears no record of the incident is currently showing on CUE. 
I dont need to decide if Aviva acted fairly by accepting liability for the claim in the first 
instance, as they've since decided to classify it as a notification only incident. As the matter 
is now closed, I also wouldnt reasonably expect Aviva to carry out any further investigation. 
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy Aviva settled the claim, before investigating the damage the 
third party claimed for. I agree they should reasonably have done so. I know this claim has 
caused Mr R upset and I was sorry to hear its impacted his mental health. Aviva have 
offered him £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. Im satisfied this is a fair amount as it's like what Ive awarded in other similar 
circumstances. 
I dont see any reasonable grounds for directing Aviva to pay Mr R, the same amount they 
paid the third party insurer as that wouldnt be proportionate or fair. I should also stress that 
we dont punish insurers or regulate them. If an insurer has made a mistake as they've done 
here, we look to see if theyve done enough to put things right. And for the reasons Ive 
explained  Im satisfied they have. Aviva agreed to report the matter as a notification only 
incident and have also offered to pay Mr R £150 compensation. Under the circumstances, 
Im satisfied this is all Id reasonably expect them to do. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited have offered Mr R £150 compensation to resolve this complaint. I 
think this amount is fair and reasonable. So, I direct them to pay Mr R £150 Compensation  
if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 Claire Greene
Ombudsman