DRN-3520875
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc sent a replacement bank card and a cheque book to 
his old address.
What happened
Between September and October 2021 Mr C changed addresses. Mr C called Santander on 
16 September 2021 to notify them of the change of address. As hed left his old property, but 
was not due to move to his new home until early October, Santander wasnt able to update 
his address. But they arranged for a mail block to be placed on his account. 
In mid-October Mr C called Santander again to update his address. The call handler 
removed the mail block on Mr Cs account and updated his details. And she told Mr C that 
some mail had been sent to his old address, and subsequently returned by the Post Office.  
Mr C also requested a cheque book. The call handler explained she would order this for him 
the next day, after the system had updated overnight.
Mr C later complained to Santander that his card and cheque book had been sent to his old 
address. Santander looked into his concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. They said the 
new card had been ordered and sent out before Mr C had told the bank about his change of 
address. And theyve since said the chequebook was issued after Mr Cs details were 
updated and sent to his new address. As Mr C later cashed a cheque from the book, they 
were satisfied it must have been received.
Mr C wasnt happy with Santanders response so referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think thered been 
any errors by Santander. As Mr C remains unhappy his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this wont be the 
news Mr C was hoping for. Id like to explain my reasons. 
When considering a complaint, I have to think about whether the business did anything 
wrong. And regarding Mr Cs complaint, I dont think they did. That doesnt mean Mr C 
wasnt affected by what happened. Having listened to his calls, both to the bank and to us, I 
can hear he was very concerned about the risk of his account being compromised. Hes 
explained he had a large amount of money in the account at the time. And I recognise this all 
happened during a wider period of disruption for Mr C, who was in the process of moving 
house. But whilst I acknowledge the upset and stress Mr Cs experienced because of what 
happened, I dont think Santander is responsible for it. I say this for the following reasons.
Mr Cs bank card was due to expire in October 2021. Santander issued a replacement card 
to Mr C at the beginning of September. Ive seen evidence showing the card was sent out on 
2 September. Mr C contacted Santander on 16 September to tell them hed changed 
addresses, leaving his old property on 9 September. So the card was already dispatched 
and in the post before Santander were aware of an issue with the address. In view of this, I 
dont think there was any bank error here. 
Thats not to say I dont appreciate Mr Cs concern about the security of his account and 
funds. But fortunately, by the time Mr C became aware of a potential problem, the card had 
already been returned to the bank. 
Regarding Mr Cs cheque book, Ive seen evidence showing that Mr Cs address was 
updated on 14 October 2021 and his cheque book issued the following day. Ive also seen 
evidence that Mr C used the cheque book shortly thereafter. On balance, Im satisfied it was 
sent to the right address and safely received. 
So overall, for the reasons given above, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong or 
treated Mr C unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman