DRN-4312566
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) failed to respond to his 
communications about repayment of a closed account. 
What happened
Mr A contacted NS&I about his closed account and it wrote to him in February 2023, and 
said his Ordinary Account is closed and it had moved any money into its Residual Account 
for safekeeping. It said it couldnt provide any further information without signed authority, 
but Mr A could obtain his money by sending a repayment form. Mr A returned the form but 
received no response. He said that despite contacting NS&I, by tweet, email and online chat, 
he couldnt get any further information. Mr A said NS&I had refused to help him.
NS&I said Mr A sent a request form which it traced to an old account with a balance of 10 
pence. It said as the account was now closed, the money was transferred into the NS&I 
Residual Account with a different account number. It said it wrote to Mr A on 9 February 
2023 that as his request form is unsigned, it couldnt disclose an account value at that stage. 
Mr A completed the NS&I Residual Account repayment application form on 21 February 
2023. However, NS&I said once the form was scanned onto its system, it was overlooked, 
and no further action was taken. NS&I offered Mr A compensation of £50 for its service 
failings and delays. Mr A wasnt satisfied with this and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partially upheld. He said Mr As account 
was dormant, so NS&I moved the funds to a Residual Account, but it didnt action Mr As 
repayment form. He said Mr A used social media to get updates from NS&I, but its website 
states this isnt allowed for account requests, and so it wasnt responsible for any lack of 
update, or while Mr As complaint was waiting to be allocated a complaint handler. 
The investigator said Mr As complaint email contained no identifiable information, but he 
then sent a reference number, which NS&I overlooked leading to a confused final response. 
He said that from NS&Is records in 1981 the account balance was 10p and remained so 
until it was closed due to dormancy in 2008, when it went to the Residual Account where it 
remained until paid to Mr A. He said there was no account activity for at least 42 years. He 
said for the impact of NS&Is mistakes on Mr A it should pay him £100 compensation.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with this response and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
He said the information he has been provided gave no dates. He said that every way he tried 
to gain information from NS&I was frustrated and he was met with a wall of silence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was frustrated by NS&Is mistakes and poor handling of his account request. Im 
pleased that NS&I has apologised for its poor service, and Ive looked closely at what took 
place to see if theres more information available and to see if the compensation is fair and 
reasonable for the impact of the events on Mr A. 
From NS&Is records I can see that Mr As Ordinary Account was closed due to dormancy in 
2008. I have seen NS&Is procedures with regard to dormant accounts and this is to transfer 
any account balance into a Residual Account. NS&Is policy is intended to protect funds as 
dormant accounts can be at risk of crime and I can see that it followed its policy correctly.
Unfortunately, when NS&I received the repayment request form from Mr A, it didnt follow up 
with any action. I can well understand Mr As frustration when his follow-up communications 
by various means didnt elicit any meaningful response. 
Mr As communications by social media wouldnt have been successful in any event as this 
isnt a secure means to obtain account-specific information, and NS&I state this on its 
website. Having said that, NS&I could have made an effort to communicate with Mr A 
properly. 
Mr As initial emails also lacked information to enable his account to be identified, though I 
understand his reasons for this. NS&I couldnt identify Mr As account at this point as he has 
a non-UK postcode which its system couldnt recognise. NS&Is response to Mr As 
complaint took time, but was within the permitted timescale. However, its response caused 
Mr A more frustration as it requested that he provide personal information so his account 
could be identified on its system. 
I can see that NS&I followed its procedures in requesting a signature to the relevant form 
where a customer wishes to obtain the account balance. I can see that Mr A responded by 
email on 17 April 2023, providing a reference number for the account for the first time. From 
this point NS&I had the information that meant it could trace Mr A and his account on its 
system. However, this important information from Mr A was overlooked by NS&I, leading to a 
further unhelpful and unspecific response to Mr As complaint.
The investigator has sent Mr A evidence from NS&I to show the final balance of 10p on his 
account, alongside his Ordinary Account number. Im sure Mr A is disappointed by his 
balance, but Im satisfied this is accurate information. 
Having considered the errors and poor communications by NS&I in terms of the impact on 
Mr A, and the unhappy saga of his attempts to gain information about his account and the 
effect it had on him, I agree with the investigator that £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable compensation. This amount is consistent with other awards we have seen where 
consumers have had their time wasted and have been caused some stress by not being 
able to obtain the information they need.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is that the complaint is 
upheld in part. I require National Savings and Investments to pay Mr A £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused by its poor service.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman