DRN-3283589
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sky UK Limited (Sky) were unreasonable when they cancelled his 
phone contract.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T is disputing the cancelation of a fixed sum loan. Thats a regulated credit agreement 
and as a result this service can look into complaints about it.
Sky didnt have to accept Mr Ts application for a phone contract. That was a commercial 
decision for them to make. 
I wouldnt expect them to share the exact reason they rejected Mr Ts application with him as 
that would mean they may have to reveal details of the internal processes they use and that 
could lead to others being able to manipulate those processes.
But I would expect Sky to explain the main reason for refusing to offer a contract and I think 
they did that as they referred Mr T to the credit reference agencies.
So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest Sky were unreasonable when they rejected Mr Ts 
application.
Mr T is upset that hed already signed the contract and paid £12. He says there was nothing 
he could see that allowed Sky to cancel the contract that he says had been formed. The 
details of how the contract application process would work are on Skys website. I can see 
that our investigator has provided those for Mr T. They say:
Well ask you to confirm you can afford the monthly loan repayments for the full length of 
your credit agreement. If you cant well cancel your order.
I think that term gave Sky the right to cancel the order if subsequent credit checks were not 
to their satisfaction.
The terms also explained:
All upfront payments  will be refunded.
And, in those circumstances, the £12 upfront payment Mr T had made would be returned to 
him. Ive not seen that wasnt the case.
I understand that Mr T is upset that there was a marker placed on his credit file as a result of 
the search. But, I cant say Sky were wrong to report one. They have an obligation to report 
it to the credit reference agencies and the terms did explain:
youll be able to see weve left a mark on your credit file.
So, whilst I understand Mr Ts frustration here Im afraid it wouldnt be fair to suggest Sky 
were wrong to take the actions they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman