DRN-3750550
The complaint
Mr C and Miss W complain about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with Miss Ws claim 
against a group private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss W is a beneficiary of a group private medical insurance 
policy provided by Mr Cs employer. The cover started on 1 April 2021. 
In October 2021 Miss W saw her GP about pain in her leg. The GP recommended a 
referral to orthopaedics and Miss W contacted Vitality about that. Based on the 
information Miss W provided, Vitality declined the claim. It relied on the moratorium 
provision in Miss Ws cover, which Ill refer to in more detail below. In response, Miss W 
told Vitality that, in fact, her symptoms started after 1 April 2021. Vitality asked for further 
information, which Miss W provided in January 2022. Mr C and Miss W made several 
calls to Vitality about the claim. In March 2022, Vitality asked Miss W for access to her 
medical records, which she declined to give. 
Mr C and Miss W say that Vitality didnt communicate with them about the progress of 
the claim. They say that Vitality wont tell them why Miss Ws claim is complex and hasnt  
explained what it wants from Miss Ws GP. They say that Vitality wont explain why the 
medical information Miss W has already provided isnt sufficient and they would like it to 
do that before they agree further access to Miss Ws medical history. 
Mr C and Miss W want Vitality to authorise Miss Ws claim or alternatively, to refund the 
premium they paid from inception of the policy and the fee Miss W paid for a report from 
her GP. They also want compensation, if appropriate. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator said that Vitality didnt act unreasonably in asking 
Miss W for more information. 
Mr C and Miss W didnt agree with the investigator. Miss W responded to say that shed 
sent Vitality a completed claim form and information from her GP. Miss W said that shed 
answered incorrectly when she said in a phone call with Vitality that her symptoms 
started six to twelve months before she saw her GP in October 2021. She said that she 
will give Vitality access to the information its requested if it can explain why her case is 
complex and what information they need from her GP. Miss W said that in         
November 2021 she completed a form in which she agreed to give Vitality access to 
medical information. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
Miss W has made a subject access request of Vitality and wishes to wait for the results of 
that before proceeding with this complaint. I dont think thats necessary as in this complaint 
Im dealing with matters Mr C and Miss W raised with Vitality in early 2022 and which led to 
Vitalitys final response in May 2022. If Mr C and Miss W wish to raise additional matters, 
they need to complain to Vitality in the first instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr C and Miss W have strong feelings about this 
matter. Their submissions are detailed and comprehensive and theyve asked various 
questions. Ive summarised the basic facts of the case and presented them in a lot less 
detail. No discourtesy is intended by that. Were an informal alternative to the courts. Our 
role is to consider all of the evidence we receive, decide whats relevant (and what isnt) to 
reaching a fair outcome, and come to a conclusion on how we think the dispute should be 
settled. So, I wont be addressing all of the points Mr C and Miss W have made. That doesnt 
mean Ive ignored what theyve said. Ive considered everything they and Vitality have said 
and provided but I confine my findings to the issues on which I consider the outcome of the 
complaint turns. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows: 
Moratorium
Before starting your cover, you did not have to answer any health questions on your 
application form. Instead, each claim is assessed on the information provided by you and, if 
necessary, a GP (or other medical practitioner) when you claim. 
We apply a straightforward criteria when assessing your claim. 
The Moratorium Clause 
We dont pay claims for the treatment of any medical condition or related condition which, 
in the five years before your cover started: 
 you have received medical treatment for, or 
 had symptoms of, or 
 asked advice on, or
 to the best of your knowledge and belief, were aware existed. 
This is called a pre-existing medical condition. 
However, subject to the plan terms and conditions, a pre-existing medical condition can 
become eligible for cover providing you have not:
 consulted anyone (e.g. a GP, dental practitioner, optician or therapist, or anyone acting in 
such a capacity) for medical treatment or advice (including check-ups), or 
 taken medication (including prescription or over-the-counter drugs, medicines, or 
injections) 
for that pre-existing medical condition or any related condition for two continuous years 
after your cover start date.
Getting authorisation for your treatment
Sometimes, particularly if you claim in the first one or two years after joining us, we may 
need you to send us a fully completed claim form to help us assess your claim. We will 
normally ask for details of your medical history for at least the previous five years, with 
sections for both you and your GP to complete. We will not pay fees charged by a medical 
practitioner for completing a claim form, and we will be unable to assess the claim or pay for 
any treatment before we receive the claim form.has Vitality acted unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding     
Mr C and Miss Ws complaint and Ill explain why:   
Vitality doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions Miss W had in the five years 
before the policy began until she has been a member for two years in a row and had 
a period of two years in a row trouble-free from that condition. 
Vitality has received conflicting information about when Miss Ws symptoms started. 
When Miss W first contacted Vitality in October 2021, she said that shed had pain in 
her leg for six months to a year. 
Ive noted what Miss W says about the circumstances of her initial phone call with 
Vitality - that Vitality contacted her unexpectedly whilst she was driving in an area 
that has poor reception and in a rainstorm. Miss W says that she didnt have the 
dates of her symptoms to hand and estimated that shed had them for six to twelve 
months. Ive listened to the recording of Miss Ws initial phone call with Vitality. 
Vitality asked if it was convenient for Miss W to talk and she indicated that it was. 
Miss W volunteered that shed had pain in her leg for six months to a year. I think that 
Vitality was entitled to rely on what Miss W said about the onset of her symptoms and 
to decline the claim.
In the subsequent claim form, Miss W said that she first noticed the symptoms on     
1 June 2021. In the GPs statement it said that Miss W first had signs and symptoms 
of the condition which led to the claim six months before October 2021, so           
April 2021. 
Where theres conflicting information about the date of onset of symptoms, I think its 
reasonable for Vitality to seek access to Miss Ws medical records. Based on what 
Ive seen, in March 2022 Vitality asked Miss W to consent to its request for copies of 
medical records. I think it was entitled to do that. The consent Miss W gave in the 
claim form in November 2021 related to the information in the GPs statement.     
Miss Ws GP might reasonably decline to give Vitality access to her medical records 
based only on the November 2021 consent. I think it was sufficient for Vitality to ask 
Miss W for her consent to access her medical records; I dont think it was required to 
explain to Miss W exactly what it was looking for. 
I dont think that Vitality dealt with Miss Ws claim in a timely way. It had Miss Ws 
claim form in January 2022 and referred the claim internally. Vitalitys system notes 
dont show that it progressed the claim or contacted Miss W to update her. It wasnt 
until mid-March 2022 that it asked for Miss Ws consent in relation to access to her 
medical records. Whilst thats unsatisfactory, I dont think its the main cause of the 
delay in progressing Miss Ws claim. Theres considerably more delay after Miss W 
declined to give Vitality her consent for access to her medical records. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Miss W but theres no basis on which I can fairly 
direct Vitality to authorise Miss Ws claim or refund the premium or GPs fee.             
If Miss W wishes to pursue the claim, she may wish to deal with Vitalitys request for 
access to her medical records, if she hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman