DRN-4064639
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr R hold with Accord Mortgages Limited. 
Mrs and Mr R are unhappy that Accord didnt reply to a letter they sent in January 2022 
asking for a new interest rate deal. When Accord eventually gave them a new deal five 
months later, it was at a higher rate than they believe they were eligible for in January 2022.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 20 February 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr R and Accord, 
and not in dispute. So I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs and Mr R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of 
the main points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our investigators view of the case explained why he wasnt persuaded Mrs and Mr R 
were eligible for a new rate in January 2022. However, we havent addressed 
Mrs and Mr Rs further submission in which they now accept they werent eligible in 
January 2022, but say they would have been in March 2022.  By issuing a provisional 
decision to take that new argument into account, Im giving both parties the 
opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
Accords eligibility criteria for offering new interest deals on the type of mortgage 
Mrs and Mr R have are quite onerous. At the relevant time, consumers needed to be 
arrears free and have maintained 24 months consecutive full payments. Any 
payments missed as a result of COVID concessions  such as those Mrs and Mr R 
had in April and May 2020 - are discounted from that assessment.
Initially, Mrs and Mr R argued theyd achieved that in January 2022, but Accord said 
no because of payments shortfalls in February and March 2020. Our investigator 
agreed with Accord and so recommended the complaint not succeed. Mrs and Mr R 
challenged this, saying that they made payments in March 2020 sufficient to bring the 
account not just up to date, but a few pounds in credit. 
Ive looked at the payment history, and Mrs and Mr R appear to be mistaken; the 
account was still in arrears by just under one payment at the end of March 2020. 
Then, in April 2020, a sum of just under £2,200 was put through as arrears 
capitalisation.  I have taken that be Accords way of adjusting for the COVID payment 
holiday agreed for April and May 2020, but with a caveat. The amount of the 
capitalisation actually corresponds more closely to three payments than it does to 
two. So it looks as though the capitalisation exercise, intentionally or otherwise, didnt 
just take the COVID holiday payments out of the equation, it took the arrears that 
existed at the end of March 2020 out as well. 
That meant that when the COVID holiday ended Mrs and Mr R resumed making their 
payments in June 2020, the account showed as slightly pre-paid at the end of 
June 2020 rather than the one month in arrears that had existed at the end of 
March 2020. But theres more. No payment was received in July 2020, meaning the 
mortgage was again in arrears, and the available evidence doesnt indicate that any 
payment holiday was granted that would account for the July 2020 payment being 
missed. One payment was made in August, and two payments were made in 
September 2020, bringing it back into line. 
Put all of the above together, and taking into account COVID payment holidays 
agreed in 2021, Im minded to conclude that Mrs and Mr R wouldnt have met 
Accords qualifying criteria until September 2022. What that means is that by 
providing a new rate in June 2022, Accord has actually done so three months sooner 
than it needed to and not three months later as Mrs and Mr R believe.
That being the case, any shortcomings there may have been in the way Accord 
communicated with Mrs and Mr R havent resulted in any financial detriment to them. 
Any trouble or upset it might have caused Mrs and Mr R has, in my view, been offset 
by the offer of £40 compensation, along with the fact they received their new rate 
sooner than they were entitled, and not later. 
I gave the parties two weeks two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both did so, 
following which I issued a second provisional decision. The following is an extract from that 
second provisional decision.
In essence, both parties had made broadly the same points in response to the 
provisional decision. That is; the account was up to date as at March 2020, the 
July 2020 payment was made in August, the August 2020 payment was made in 
September, and the payments made between October 2020 and January 2021 were 
all on time but about £10 short. The accumulated shortfall was caught up in 
February 2021.
Mrs and Mr R have said Accord told them no action would be taken on the late 
payments if they were made up within a few days, which they were. However, taking 
no action (in the context of debt recovery) isnt the same as treating the payments as 
having been made on time. Quite simply, those for July and August 2020 were not.Similarly, Accord may have accepted that the shortfalls between October 2020 and 
January 2021 were genuine mistakes, but they were still shortfalls, and they meant 
the payment in those months, whilst made on time, werent made in full. 
Put all of the above together, and it still means that Mrs and Mr R would not be in a 
position in March 2022 where it could reasonably be concluded that theyd met the 
eligibility requirements for a new rate of being arrears free and have maintained 
24 months consecutive full payments. I said in my first provisional decision that the 
earliest theyd have met the qualification criteria was September 2022. On further 
reflection, that now looks to be February 2023. So I remain of the view that 
Mrs and Mr R had not met the eligibility criteria when they believe they did. But there 
is more to consider. 
Accord can use its discretion to provide a new rate before a borrower is eligible for 
one; it also has a regulatory duty to treat consumers fairly. That might sometimes 
mean stepping outside the strict application of its lending policy, but the rules of 
mortgage regulation do require lenders to consider doing so, where the 
circumstances warrant it, and where it can be deemed as being in the consumers 
best interests. Mindful of Mrs and Mr Rs points about the late payment being made 
up promptly and the shortfalls being acknowledged as genuine errors, that is what 
Accord appears to have done. I think Accord met that duty of fair treatment when it 
provided Mrs and Mr R with a new rate in June 2022.
None of this change the outcome, but procedural fairness requires that I set out my 
amended reasoning in a second provisional decision.
Again, both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further 
comments, and that time has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, Having so, I 
wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. However, I will address some of 
Mrs and Mr Rs further comments.
I take on board everything theyve said about the late payments falling in months where 
there were bank holidays, and the short payments being inadvertent and a genuine 
oversight. All of that I accept, but it still means payments were made late and/or not in full. 
So the starting point is, on a strict application of Accords eligibility criteria, Mrs and Mr R 
hadnt met its requirements in March 2022, and wouldnt be able to do so before 
February 2023 at the earliest. 
But that is where Accords regulatory duty to treat Mrs and Mr R fairly and use its discretion 
comes into play, and in that regard, it did what Id expect a lender to do in similar 
circumstances. 
Mrs and Mr R are unhappy with the amount of time that passed without a substantive 
reaction from Accord. I think perhaps Accord could have been a little more communicative 
than it was, but I dont think it unduly delayed reaching the conclusion that providing a new 
rate was a fair thing to do. On the point about not informing Mr and Mrs R immediately a short payment was made, I wouldnt expect a lender to sending arrears notifications for a 
£10 monthly shortfall. 
Mrs and Mr R dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Accord will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr Rs recourse to a legal remedy of their own against Accord 
over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of 
it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Accord Mortgages Limited. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman