DRN-4382935
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as X, is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) gave it incorrect information about how long it could have to repay account balances 
following the issuance of formal demands.
Xs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr F.
What happened
X had two business loans which were in arrears. On 11 August 2022, RBS issued formal 
demands for the two loans which gave X 60 days from that date to clear the full outstanding 
balance of the loans. X complained to RBS, who placed their potential recoveries actions on 
hold while the complaint was being investigated. RBS issued a response to Xs complaint in 
October 2022.
On 11 November 2022, Mr F contact RBS and was told that RBS would be reissuing formal 
demands on the two loans which would give X a further 60 days to clear the outstanding 
balances. However, RBS spoke with Mr F again on 29 November 2022 and said that they 
wouldnt be reissuing the formal demands, and that because more than 60 days had passed 
since the issuance of the 11 August 2022 formal demands, RBS could now default the loans 
at any time. Mr F wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Xs behalf.
RBS responded to X and apologised for incorrectly advising that new formal demands would 
be issued when that wasnt the case. RBS offered £300 compensation to X for the trouble 
and inconvenience the incorrect information might have caused. Mr F wasnt satisfied with 
RBSs response, so he referred Xs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that RBSs response to the 
complaint, including the apology and the offer of £300 compensation, already represented a 
fair outcome to what had happened. Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr F has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding Xs 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr F for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr F notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both X and RBS. Rather, it should be taken 
that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly in this 
letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr F is unhappy that he was incorrectly told that RBS would reissue formal demands to X for 
the two loans, which would have given X a further 60 days from the date of reissuance to 
clear the loan balances.
I can appreciate Mr Fs dissatisfaction here. But it seems clear to me that RBS made a 
mistake by telling him that formal demands would be re-issued. This is because the formal 
demands had already been issued on 11 August 2022. And while X had raised a complaint, 
the act of raising a complaint doesnt invalidate an issued formal demand. In short, the 60-
day period given on the 11 August 2022 remained valid regardless of Xs complaint.
This means that when RBS spoke with X on 29 November 2022 and explained that the 
formal demands wouldnt be reissued, RBS were correcting their mistake and providing X 
with an accurate explanation of the status of their loan accounts at that time.
Notably, while RBS explained to X that they were now within their right to default Xs loans at 
any time  given that more than 60 days had elapsed since the 11 August 2022 formal 
demands  they didnt do this. And X was able to clear the outstanding balances owing on 
the loans without the loans in December 2022 and January 2023 respectively.
I feel that by allowing X such a long period of time to clear the loan balances, that RBS as 
provided X with significant forbearance. This is because the 11 August 2022 formal 
demands gave X until 10 October 2022 to clear the balances. As explained, this date 
remained valid regardless of Xs complaint. And while RBS suspended collections activities 
while it looked at Xs complaint, it was only a suspension. 
As such, it was incumbent on X to have made the necessary arrangements to be able to 
clear the loan arrears immediately when RBS issued its response to the complaint  if that 
response was issued after the 60-day period had expired and didnt result in the formal 
demands being rescinded  both of which were the case in this instance. This means that 
RBS were reasonably entitled to resume recoveries activity immediately following the 
issuance of their response to Xs complaint on 14 October. But RBS didnt do this, and 
instead they allowed X a further two and three months respectively to clear the loan arrears.
Accordingly, I dont feel that there has been any significant impact to X resulting from the 
incorrect information as Mr F contends here. I say this because, while X was given incorrect 
information about the reissuance of the formal demands, that incorrect information was given 
to X at a time when RBS were already reasonably entitled to immediately default Xs loan 
accounts. This appears to have had very little tangible effect on X because the risk of 
immediate default already legitimately existed, and also because RBS didnt actually default 
Xs loan accounts, as previously explained.
RBS have offered £300 compensation to X for the trouble and inconvenience X may have 
incurred because it was incorrectly told that the formal demands would be reissued. This 
seems fair to me, and I dont feel that RBS should be fairly instructed to pay the significantly 
larger sum that Mr F has requested here, or indeed, any further compensation amount at all.Finally, I note that Mr F has argued that he had contacted RBS to clear the loan arrears 
before the formal demands were issued, and that RBS promised to get back in touch with 
him about this but failed to do so, with the next correspondence received from RBS being 
the two formal demands.
Mr F has also explained that its unknown whether RBS did attempt to call X back because 
RBS usually call on withheld numbers and that X has a policy of not answering such 
numbers. But if X was aware that RBS had promised to contact it about the important issue 
of the arrears on the loans, it seems reasonable and obvious to me that X should have made 
an exception to their policy and answered the calls that RBS have confirmed that they did 
make to X during that time  regardless of the fact that the calls were being received from 
withheld numbers. 
But X didnt do this, and neither did it attempt to recontact RBS itself, as I also feel it 
reasonably should have done, if it wasnt answering the phone calls it was receiving. I 
therefore dont agree with Mr Fs assertion that RBS failed to contact X via reasonable 
channels, because Im satisfied that RBS did attempt to contact X via a reasonable channel 
 by telephone  and that X should fairly be considered accountable for not answering those 
calls or proactively reconnecting with RBS. And this is especially the case given that it was 
understood by X that its loan accounts were in arrears in that time.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Xs favour, Ill only be 
doing so to instruct RBS to pay the £300 compensation to X that theyve already offered to 
pay and which Im satisfied fairly resolves this complaint. And I wont be issuing any further 
instructions to RBS beyond this.
Putting things right
RBS must make a payment of £300 to X.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland plc on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman