DRN-4111076
The complaint
Mr X complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, who Ill call Close 
Brothers.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr X acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances.
Mr X had a short term right to reject the car if it was of unsatisfactory quality and he reported 
that in the first 30 days. Close Brothers have now accepted that was the case. Theyve 
agreed to allow him to reject the car and will cancel the credit agreement. But the redress 
they suggested wasnt comprehensive and a mistake was made as they paid Mr X an extra 
£4,539.57 in error. 
Theres no longer a dispute that this car was of unsatisfactory quality and that Mr X should 
have been allowed to reject it in August 2022, a matter of days after he took receipt of it. I 
wont therefore consider the quality issues in any detail, other than to say I agree Mr X 
should have been allowed to reject the car and end his agreement in August 2022.
 
Putting things right
Close Brothers will need to collect the car and end the agreement if they havent already 
done so.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr X has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund. Mr X has provided a card receipt for £4,000 to 
demonstrate that was the deposit paid. Close Brothers should return that amount unless 
they can demonstrate that the deposit of £2,603 listed on the finance agreement was 
correct.
The relevant legislation says they can retain some of the instalments Mr X has paid in 
relation to the usage hes had from the car. But I dont think Mr X has had any real use of it. I 
say that because the car broke down only two days into the agreement, and I think Mr Xs 
use of it beforehand would have been significantly impaired by the issues he had with the 
Diesel Particulate Filter, the battery, and the relay fault. I therefore think Close Brothers 
should return all of finance instalments that Mr X paid. Theyll need to add interest to that 
refund as Mr X has been deprived of that money.
Mr X has had to commission a diagnostic on the cars condition in order to support his claim. 
I think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory 
quality. So, Close Brothers should refund the £49.99 the report cost, and that Mr X has 
evidenced. Mr X also incurred some insurance and car tax and as those costs were incurred 
as a consequence of taking receipt of a car that proved to be of unsatisfactory quality, Close 
Brothers should refund those costs on a pro rata basis.
Mr X has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership and to attend to collect the car when it wasnt fixed. Hes also had to arrange a 
diagnostic and hes explained hes needed to use public transport whilst his car has been off 
the road. Mr X has also explained the difficulties hes experienced taking his children to 
events, especially over his festive period, and hes explained there were some costs on fuel 
to get to and from the dealership. Taking all of that into account, I think Close Brothers 
should pay him £400 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. I think that is in line with our published approach on distress and inconvenience 
payments, and whilst I understand Mr X thinks that isnt enough, Im not persuaded to 
increase it.
Our investigator explained in her view of 18 January 2023 that in order to rectify the over 
payment Close Brothers appear to have made to Mr X, they would need to calculate the 
redress amount we were asking them to pay and deduct it from the payment theyd already 
provided to Mr X. If that resulted in an overpayment she suggested Close Brothers should 
contact Mr X and arrange a suitable way for him to repay that. If it resulted in an 
underpayment Close Brothers should pay that directly to Mr X. That seems a fair way to 
resolve the payment error and Im asking Close Brothers to do that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to 
calculate the redress amount ordered below and deduct it from the payment theyve already 
provided to Mr X. If that results in an overpayment Close Brothers should contact Mr X and 
arrange a suitable way for him to repay that. If it results in an underpayment Close Brothers 
should pay that directly to Mr X. The order is:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no cost to Mr X, 
unless that has already been done.
Refund Mr Xs £4,000 deposit (see comments above) adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Refund all finance instalments that have been paid and add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the diagnostic cost of £49.99 on provision of proof of payment, and the car 
insurance and road tax Mr X evidenced to them. Add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr X £400.00 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. 
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Xs credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman