DRN-3341146
The complaint
I complains that Funding Circle Ltd (FC) closed its crowdfunding accounts without warning 
or a valid reason. It says FC has deprived I of access to the online platform, meaning it 
cant monitor remaining loans or withdraw funds.
What happened
FC operates a peer-to-peer (P2P) lending platform. Customers can invest in loans to
borrowers, in return for interest payments over a set term and the return of their capital at the
end.
I is a registered charity, thats legally formed as a limited company. In 2012, it opened an
account with FC, and over the following years it made a number of investments. In 2017 it
opened a second account.
In 2018, I made some withdrawals from its accounts and FC got in touch to ask about them.
Shortly afterwards, FC said it was closing Is accounts, telling I it was entitled to do so
under the account terms and conditions.
I complained. It disagreed that FCs terms allowed it to close the accounts in the manner it
did. And I said that since then, it had been given incorrect information about the loans that
remained in its accounts.
FC responded to say it didnt uphold the complaint and its actions were appropriate and in 
line with the account terms and conditions. I referred the complaint to this service for 
independent review. 
One of our ombudsmen issued a decision to confirm we had jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. Following this one of investigators considered the merits of the complaint. He 
didnt uphold the complaint - in summary he said that he was satisfied FC had acted 
reasonably when it decided to limit access to Is accounts, and it acted in line with its 
obligations. 
The investigator also noted the delays in FC providing statements to I  which were 
required to allow I to understand what funds were still outstanding. He noted FC had 
apologised for this and offered compensation. 
I didnt accept the investigators findings on the issues relating to the account access. In 
summary it said: 
- It would like our service to consider whether the commercial decision made by FC to 
close the accounts was fair and reasonable. 
- The investigators statement "the business doesnt have to provide prior notice of their 
intentions to is a generalisation that doesnt address the circumstances of this case. 
FC needs to show it acted according to the terms of the contract and also fairly or 
reasonably in the circumstances of the case. 
- It provided the information requested by FC, so there were no grounds to close the 
accounts on that basis. 
- When the accounts were closed, FC provided incorrect information about the 
amounts of money in the accounts. This isnt fair and reasonable and caused 
inconvenience.
- FC paid I £100 in September 2020 for not providing statements. Since then FC 
hasnt provided statements on many occasions  and hasnt paid anything for that. 
- FC should provide restricted online access to the accounts to allow I to monitor the 
them rather than waiting for the monthly statements. Permission for this isnt required 
as FC lied to the Financial Ombudsman Service and the FCA about the state of the 
accounts. So, it isnt fair or reasonable to refuse to provide independent means to 
verify the state of the accounts.  
The investigator considered Is further points, but they didnt change his opinion on the main 
issue of the complaint around the limiting of access to accounts. But the investigator further 
discussed the problems in providing statements with FC. Following these discussions FC 
agreed to increase its offer by £200 to £300 in total. This was accepted by I. 
I provided further comments in support of its complaint. I maintains its view that FCs 
decision to close its accounts and stop online access was taken for reasons not set out in 
the terms and conditions, making it unfair and unreasonable. It believes it should be given 
more information around the decision to close its accounts, so that it has a fair chance to 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of our ombudsmen has reached a jurisdiction decision that the complaint I makes 
relates, at least in part, to acts or omissions by FC in relation to regulated activities. So, our 
service can consider this complaint about the closure of Is accounts and subsequent 
administration of loans, but solely insofar as it relates to article 36H agreements. This is the 
basis under which Im considering the complaint. 
Id like to reassure I that Ive read all the correspondence in the file when deciding the 
complaint. I hope it wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented on every specific 
point raised but its not because Ive failed to take it into account. Ive instead concentrated 
my findings on what I believe to be the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
The crux of this complaint centres around the decision FC made to close two crowdfunding 
accounts that I held. The terms and conditions that apply to Is account is the starting place 
to look at what agreement was in place between the parties. Ive reviewed these in light of 
what happened to decide whether FC has treated I fairly in the way it has applied the terms 
of the contract between the parties 
Having reviewed the terms provided  the following section is relevant to the circumstances 
of the complaint:
17.4. We may give you notice that we intend to close your Investor Account at any time if:
you breach any term of these Investor Terms and Conditions, the Website Terms of
Use or the Privacy Policy;
you breach any term of a Loan Contract and fail to remedy the breach within anyperiod notified to you or if no notification is provided, within a reasonable period;
you cease to be an eligible Investor because you do not satisfy the criteria in 
clause 6 (Investor Eligibility Criteria);
you do not respond to our reasonable requests for information or you fail to 
provide such information;
we suspect that you have committed or have been involved in fraud, money 
laundering or other criminal activities;
we discover that any information you have provided to us is materially incorrect, 
inaccurate, false or misleading;
you use the Funding Circle Platform or any information obtained or discovered 
through being an Investor with us to canvass or solicit any person from Funding 
Circle;
you use the Funding Circle Platform for a purpose for which the Funding Circle 
Platform is not intended or other than as a direct lending platform to Borrowers;
you use the Funding Circle Platform or the Website in an illegal, offensive or 
defamatory way or in any way which causes inconvenience to other users;
you undertake action to contact or engage with a Borrower directly to pursue 
missed payments or recover outstanding sums;
you do not lend within a 12 month period through your Investor Account;
you misuse the Funding Circle Platform in any other way; or we believe that any 
action you undertake (or fail to take) will have an adverse effect on the Funding 
Circle Platform or Funding Circle's reputation.
17.5. If we give you notice under clause 17.4, you authorise us to immediately transfer your
Loan Parts to other Investors by selling them as described in clause 10 (Withdrawing funds
and transferring Loan Parts). When your last Loan Part has been sold, we will remit any
remaining funds to which you are entitled, less any fees which may be owed to us, the
Security Holder or any Funding Circle Company, to your Nominated Bank Account and then 
close your Investor Account.
So, Im satisfied from this that FC did have the right to close an account in certain 
circumstances. Ive looked at what happened in the particular circumstances of Is 
accounts. After a review of the accounts FC wrote to I to explain in accordance with our 
enhanced due diligence process, following a review of your business account, we have 
determined that continuing our relationship is outside of our risk appetite. This meant FC 
had given I notification that its accounts would be closed with immediate effect. Although in 
practice this couldnt be fully achieved until all loan parts have either been repaid or recovery 
action complete for defaulted loans. But it did mean that I could no longer access its 
accounts online. 
I requested further information about the reason for FC losing its accounts. FC explained 
that a variety of factors were considered before reaching the decision. I can see that I 
wasnt satisfied by this response.  Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was 
unreasonable in the circumstances for FC to give intention of closure and restrict Is 
accounts. Im satisfied that in doing so FC were complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. I appreciate that having its accounts closed was unexpected, but I cant say FC 
has treated I unfairly. While I would like FC to explain further the reason it closed the 
accounts, FC doesnt need to disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell I the reasons behind the account review, as 
much as I would like to know. So, I cant say FCs done anything wrong by not giving I this 
information. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information FC has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail with I, but Id 
like to reassure it that I have considered everything.
I questions whether FC acted fairly by not proving any notice prior of the decision to close 
the accounts. Having reviewed the terms, I dont find that there was a requirement for FC to 
provide a notice period  before informing an investor of an intention to close an account. 
The terms indicated that where notice is given FC is authorised to start liquidating the 
account.  As Ive already made a finding that FC the circumstances surrounding the account 
closures didnt treat I unfairly, it follows that I also dont think it acted unfairly or outside of 
the terms and conditions in the circumstances by not providing notice. 
                                                                     
I says the closure of the account caused it inconvenience and FC has admitted to mistakes - 
so it should pay compensation. I note that FC did concede that it could have handled things 
more delicately and offered an apology, but I dont think it accepted it did something wrong 
when making the decision to close the accounts  and neither do I. This means that despite 
the inconvenience I describes surrounding the account closure  Im not satisfied this was 
as a result of an error made by FC. So, it follows that Ive not found reason to ask FC to do 
anything further in this respect. 
As mentioned above, although notice of account closure was given by FC, I still had 
outstanding loans on the platform which couldnt immediately be liquidated. I think FC had a 
responsibility to ensure that it did provide sufficient information to allow I to understand the 
up to date position of outstanding loans  until the full closure could be complete. I 
understand that this is now nearly complete, and the few remaining loans are non-
performing loans and subject to recovery action by FC  which may or may not return further 
funds to I. FC should still continue to provide updates on these loans until the accounts can 
be completely closed. 
I has raised concerns about how it was provided with information to monitor the accounts. 
This includes the accuracy of the initial information provided, the failure to provide timely 
updates and the format of the loan information. I understand the initial inaccuracies were 
corrected but further problems did still occur. I requested that it was still allowed to have 
online access to monitor the loans  but FC declined to provide this. I dont find FCs 
decision to not provide online access unreasonable in light of the circumstances. But I do 
think it needed to provide accurate information on the loans to I in an alternative format in a 
timely manner. While FC made a commitment to provide monthly statements and loan 
updates, I note these werent always provided on time and I had to chase. Clearly there 
have been failings in the provision of information while I waits for full liquidation of the 
accounts  and this has caused inconvenience for I because it needed to chase things up. I 
understand FC made several offers of compensation to I to recognise the impact this has 
caused  specifically for missing monthly updates. I understand that the latest offer brings 
the total compensation paid for this issue to £300. This has been accepted and I considers 
this specific issue to be resolved.  So, I wont comment further on this issue other than to 
agree that the offer made are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And while I has 
raised other issues about the provision of information, I dont think this means FC needs to 
pay further compensation above what has already been paid.
I has provided evidence to show that it was sent marketing emails after the notice of closure 
and was able to re-set its password to access the accounts. I acknowledge that I has 
obtained a response from the financial services regulator (the FCA) about this issue and FC 
explained it was an isolated incident. I understand why I raised concerns about receiving 
marketing emails after the closure notice was issued  and why it was able to reset the 
password. The mistake did continue for a period of around a year, so I acknowledge why I doesnt see it as an isolated incident. However, I note that I have confirmed it stopped 
happening from September 2019  so the issue was resolved shortly after the FCAs 
involvement. I says the impact of this issue warrants a compensation payment. While 
clearly there has been a mistake, my powers dont allow me to make punitive award for 
errors. But I can make awards for mistakes that result in material inconvenience on I. I 
acknowledge that there was some impact on I in having to deal with this issue. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that the mistake had a significant impact on Is operation or that it 
caused any kind of loss that needs rectifying. So, I dont think the impact of FCs mistakes 
here warrant a further compensation award. 
In conclusion, I havent found FC treated I unfairly in the decision it made to close its 
accounts. I acknowledge that since making the decision to close the accounts there have 
been problems with providing information in a timely manner. Compensation has been 
offered and accepted. There have been other problems, but for the reasons explained I dont 
think that FC needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman