DRN-4182731
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to protect 
him from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover 
the money once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr R complains that he was the victim of an investment scam that took place over a five- 
year period. He was contacted by someone claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as P 
(P changed its name during the scam period, but for ease Ill refer to is as P throughout), 
who told him he could make money from investing in wine.
The broker promised attractive long-term returns, that the investment was low risk and that 
Mr R could make £7,000 within a year from a £5,000 investment. He said the wine would be 
sold when it was ready, at which point hed receive his profits.
The broker was friendly and seemed to know what he was talking about, so Mr R decided to 
go ahead with the investment. Mr R had some money to invest from his retirement fund and 
between 31 October 2014 and 19 October 2018, he made 11 payments totalling £18,680 
using a debit card connected to his NatWest account.
The broker contacted Mr R regularly to say the investment was doing well and within a year 
he was told that if he invested more money, hed get a better return. The scam came to light 
in October 2018, when a family member warned him it might be a scam.
Mr R contacted NatWest, but it said hed made the payments in 2014 and 2015 and so they 
were time-barred. It also said that all the payments were made before the introduction of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, so the code didnt apply.
In August 2022, Mr R complained to NatWest with the help of a representative. NatWest 
apologised that he didnt think it had done enough to protect him, but it said that due to the 
passage of time it had no record of what had happened. It noted Mr R recalled it having 
contacted him about the payments, explaining that in these circumstances its staff would 
usually ask the customer to confirm they recognised the payments.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service arguing that NatWests fraud 
department must have been aware of the media articles about P and should have included it 
on a warning list. His representative also said Ps bank should have refused to operate its 
accounts, and that it had failed to provide details about the receiving bank.
The representative argued NatWest had facilitated the fraud by allowing Mr R to transfer the 
funds over several years and that there were inadequate checks in place. They said Mr R 
was contacted a couple of times but, because he thought the investment was legitimate, he 
confirmed the payments were genuine. They argued the checks should have been much 
more vigorous, especially as he was over 65, and financially vulnerable.
Mr Rs representative explained hes now secluded and his plans to travel have been 
abandoned because hes lost half his savings and is concerned about the cost of living. Mr R 
wants a full refund or at least a refund of all payments over £1,000.
Ive said I cant consider the first nine payments because they were brought to this service 
out of time, but I am able to consider the final two, which Mr R made on 17 June 2017 and 
19 October 2018 for £5,000 and £100.
My provisional findings
I previously said I wouldn't expect NatWest to attempt recovery of the two payments 
because they would almost certainly have been withdrawn from the beneficiary account. The 
only means of recovery would have been a Chargeback request under Visas Chargeback 
scheme and, again, any such request would have been out of time.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr R says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. NatWest had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the disputed payments took place before the code came into force, and I was 
satisfied thats fair and applies to both payments.
I was satisfied Mr R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank he is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
I carefully considered the circumstances along with the evidence Mr R and his 
representative have submitted in support of their position that P was operating a scam. But I 
said I didnt intend to make a finding on whether P was operating a scam because, even if it 
was, it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
To uphold this complaint, I explained I need to be satisfied that NatWest could have done 
more to prevent Mr Rs loss. Investing in wine is a legitimate activity, however, NatWest did 
have an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and so I would need to consider whether it 
ought to have intervened to warn Mr R when he tried to make the payments. If there are 
unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect NatWest to intervene with a view 
to protecting Mr R from financial harm due to fraud.
I considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr R normally ran his account and I thought they were. By the time 
Mr R made the £5,000 payment, P was operating under a new name, so the payment was to 
a new payee. And I looked at Mr Rs bank statements and the amount was unusual when 
compared to the other spending on the account. So, I thought NatWest should have 
intervened when Mr R made this payment.However, had NatWest warned Mr R about the risk of fraud and given advice on additional 
checks he could make, I wasnt satisfied this would have made a difference to his decision to 
go ahead with the payments.
Mr R submitted articles dated in 2016 claiming Ps sales methods and practices were 
questionable, but this didnt amount to evidence that it was a fraudulent scheme I said the 
articles fall short of concluding P was a scam. Further, this was a registered company and 
there was no requirement for it to be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
So, even if NatWest had warned Mr R about the risk of fraud and advised him to undertake 
some more research, Mr R believed the investments was genuine and I didnt think there 
was an information available in the public domain at that time which would reasonably have 
stopped him from going ahead with the investment.
 
Developments
NatWest has accepted my provisional findings. Further comments have been made on Mr 
Rs behalf.
Mr R recalls Natwest contacting him to ask whether the payments were genuine, but there 
were no other enquiries and he maintains that more stringent questioning would have 
revealed the possibility that he might be the victim of a scam, and this should have been 
rigorously communicated to him. The representative has argued Mr R was financially 
vulnerable and had no mobile phone or access to the internet, and NatWest should have 
protected him by monitoring newspaper reports and fraud trends and asking more questions 
around the investment.
The representative maintains that P was operating a scam and that this is supported by 
articles associating P with fraudulent schemes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points raised on Mr Rs behalf but Im afraid I maintain my view that even 
if NatWest had done more to warn Mr R about the risk of fraud and either advised him to 
undertake some more research or even done it for him, Im not satisfied there was any 
information or evidence available in the public domain at the time he made the final two 
payments which would reasonably have stopped him from going ahead with the investment 
in circumstances where he believed the investments were genuine. Consequently, I dont 
think NatWest could have done anything to prevent Mr Rs loss, so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman