DRN-3396572
The complaint
Mr K complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly turned down a claim on his agricultural
vehicle insurance policy.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters.
What happened
Mr Ks baler suffered damage while being used so he took it to be repaired. This was to
reduce the amount of time he was without the vehicle during harvest time and limit the
financial impact to him. To enable Lloyds to assess the claim the damaged parts were kept,
and a claim submitted to Lloyds.
Around five months later Lloyds sent an engineer to inspect the damaged parts as it wasnt
satisfied with the photos supplied. Unfortunately, due to the time which had passed some of
the parts had disappeared and only the drive shaft was available for inspection. Lloyds
engineer inspected the part and said they thought the part failed due to mechanical
breakdown. Because of this Lloyds turned down the claim.
Mr K didnt think this was fair and complained. He said it was clear from the photos the
vehicle had suffered accidental damage and that this was likely caused by a wheel going
into a rut and the vehicle hitting the floor. Lloyds reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it.
It said some of the delay had been caused by Mr K not providing more information when it
had been asked for but acknowledged some delays in the claim were Lloyds fault.
Because of this Lloyds offered £175 compensation for the delays. Lloyds maintained that
the claim had been fairly declined as it had based the decision on an engineers report which
said the part had failed due to mechanical breakdown. Lloyds also said Mr K could have
another engineer review the claim if he disagreed.
Mr K didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint here. He said it was normal practice
to go ahead and repair the vehicle and that it was clear it had suffered accidental damage.
He also didnt agree it was a mechanical breakdown and said he was out of pocket by
£6,620.30 which he paid for repairs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2022 where I said:
Mr K has a comprehensive policy which covers him for accidental damage to his agricultural
machinery. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr Ks baler was likely damaged when a
wheel fell into a hole or rut and caused the machine to come into contact with the ground.
Therefore, any resulting damage would be covered by the policy unless an exclusion
applies.
Lloyds has said the policy doesnt cover wear and tear or mechanical breakdown. The terms
of Mr Ks policy say:
This section of your insurance does not cover the following:..
3. Wear and tear
4. Failures, breakdowns or breakages of mechanical, electrical,
electronic or computer equipment
Lloyds said it turned down Mr Ks claim as the engineer who inspected a failed part said it
had failed due to mechanical breakdown. Ive reviewed this report and the engineer says:
It is my considered opinion that the damage observed is as a 
consequence of mechanical failure of the drive shaft and as such 
would not be covered by the terms of the insurance policy.
While I agree the engineer who inspected the parts opinion is that its failed due to
mechanical failure, Ive also considered the comments from the repairer of Mr Ks baler.
The repairer said:
The damage was clearly caused by the pick-up coming into contact 
with the ground.
They go onto say this is because a wheel has dropped into a rut or hole which allowed the
pickup to hit the ground with some force.
From considering all of the information Im not persuaded Lloyds has shown its fair and
reasonable to rely on the mechanical breakdown exclusion to turn down Mr Ks claim. I say
this because the engineers report doesnt explain why their opinion is the part has failed due
to mechanical failure. Furthermore, the engineer only comments on one part, whereas the
repairer saw all the parts and has given their opinion the damage being due to part of the
baler coming into contact of the ground.
Ive also considered the wear and tear exclusion Lloyds mentioned. However, it hasnt
provided anything to support that this exclusion would apply. So, it follows Im also not
persuaded its fair and reasonable to rely on it.
Mr K said he paid £6,620.30 to repair the baler. As Im not satisfied Lloyds has shown its 
fair and reasonable to turn down the claim, Lloyds needs to pay Mr K this amount. Lloyds
should also add 8% simple interest per year to this amount, calculated from the date Mr K
paid it until the date Lloyds makes payment, to compensate him for not having the money.
In regard to the delay in assessing the claim I can see Lloyds has offered £175
compensation for this. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mr K
for the delays, so Im not going to tell Lloyds to pay anymore.
Lloyds responded and didnt agree. It provided a detailed response which said it thought 
that if the engineers report was read as a whole then it evidenced the part failed due to 
mechanical failure and had wear marks from continued use after the bracket had broken off. 
Lloyds also said it wasnt fair to say the engineers report wasnt as persuasive as theyd only 
inspected one part and it thought the report did explain why it was fair to decline the claim for 
wear and tear. Finally, Lloyds said its engineer was more qualified than the repairer and that 
Mr K hadnt obtained his own alternative report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered Lloyds response, but it hasnt persuaded me to change my mind. I would 
like to assure Lloyds that I have read its engineers report in its entirety although, I have only 
quoted part of it. The reason Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision is 
because, while I agree the engineer has said its their opinion the part failed due to 
mechanical breakdown and wear and tear, the report hasnt explained the reasons why the 
part failed due to mechanical breakdown, or wear and tear, to persuade me thats whats 
happened here. 
Ive also considered Lloyds point that the report shows continued wear to the damaged area 
following the bracket breaking off, but the report doesnt explain why that means its failed 
due to mechanical breakdown or wear and tear. I also think its only fair and reasonable to 
rely on the exclusion of wear and tear if a part has reached the end of its normal working life. 
And Lloyds hasnt shown that is the case here, so Im not satisfied its shown its fair and 
reasonable to decline the claim for wear and tear. 
I appreciate Lloyds thinks its engineer is more qualified than the repairer, but Ive also had 
to consider that Lloyds engineer only saw one part when assessing the claim. Lloyds also 
said the repairer Mr K used isnt independent. However, I think Lloyds engineer acted as its 
agent in the same way that the repairer acted as Mr Ks agent. So, I have considered the 
reports with equal weighting in terms of their independence.
Finally, Ive considered Lloyds point that Mr K hasnt provided an alternative engineers 
report to dispute its engineers. As Lloyds is relying on an exclusion to turn down the claim 
the onus is on Lloyds to show that its fair and reasonable to do so. And as Im not 
persuaded Lloyds has done that, Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable to turn down the 
claim for the reasons given. Im therefore not persuaded to depart from the findings in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require to 
Society of Lloyds to pay Mr K:
£6,620.30 for the repairs to his baler, plus 8% simple interest per year on this amount
calculated from the date he paid it until the date it makes payment
£175 compensation for distress and inconvenience, if not already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman