DRN-3179889
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wont reduce or 
waive the charges it added at the end of his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr M acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from VWFS. Mr M was 
required to pay 48 monthly repayments of around £300, followed by a final optional payment 
of around £13,400 if he wanted to own the car at the end. Mr M chose not to pay the final 
payment and instead returned the car to VWFS.
On returning the car, VWFS added additional charges. This was made up of £129.60 for 
damage to the car, which VWFS said exceeded reasonable wear and tear. It also charged a 
further £1,190.95 for the additional mileage Mr M had covered which exceeded the permitted 
amount set out in the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr M complained about the charges and asked for them to be waived or reduced. He said 
that he had exceeded the original mileage allowance due changes in his personal 
circumstances as a result of the global pandemic. 
VWFS said it had applied the charges fairly and inline with the agreement terms and 
conditions. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to waive the damage charges of 
£129.60. Mr M didnt feel this went far enough to assist him. He then referred his complaint 
to our service to investigate. In the interim he continued to receive correspondence from 
VWFS about paying the outstanding charge. He says VWFS told him that any collections 
activity would be placed on hold while he had a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. However, he says the matter was still referred to VWFS solicitors who approached 
him for repayment.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She considered that the 
charges had been correctly and fairly applied and that VWFS offer to waive the damage 
charge was reasonable. She didnt think VWFS had acted unfairly in not placing collections 
activity on hold while the complaint was with our service. 
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement set out that Mr M was responsible for ensuring the car was in 
good repair and condition. It said he would be charged for any damage which went beyond 
reasonable wear and tear. As VWFS has already agreed to waive the damage charges it 
applied, I dont think it needs to do anything else in respect of those charges to put things 
right.  
The agreement also set out that Mr M had a maximum annual mileage limit of 10,000, or 
40,833 over the course of the entire agreement. It said that if he returned the car to VWFS, 
any mileage hed covered in excess of the agreed limit would be charged at 8.4 pence per 
mile. From what Ive seen, it appears the excess mileage charge VWFS applied has been 
calculated in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 
Mr M says that VWFS ought to take into consideration that the impact of the global 
pandemic meant that he was required to use his car more than initially anticipated. This was 
because he needed to use it to assist vulnerable relatives. I dont doubt what Mr M has said 
about why his mileage exceeded what he originally agreed to cover. However, I havent seen 
anything which persuades me that VWFS were required to or ought reasonably to have 
therefore reduced or waived the charge. 
The Financial Conduct Authority released guidance to firms regarding treatment of 
consumers affected by the pandemic. However, this guidance didnt set out any specific 
different expectations on firms when applying excess mileage or damage charges, other 
than to ensure that it provided appropriate forbearance measures for anyone struggling 
financially. Similar principles for treating customers fairly in financial difficulties (whether 
affected by the pandemic or not) are also set out in the regulators handbook of rules and 
guidance within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
Having considered all the circumstances here, I havent seen anything to make me think the 
excess mileage charge was applied incorrectly or unfairly. If Mr M is experiencing financial 
difficulty, then he should discuss his circumstances with VWFS. I remind VWFS of its 
obligations in treating Mr M fairly and with forbearance should he not be in a position to be 
able to afford to repay the charge. 
Lastly, Mr M says that VWFS told him collections activity would be placed on hold while his 
complaint was ongoing with our service. Its not clear from the correspondence Ive seen 
whether Mr M was told this or not. However, Ive seen no reason to doubt what he says, 
particularly as VWFS has accepted it likely told him a hold would be placed while it looked 
into his complaint initially, but it doesnt agree that it agreed to hold collections activity after it 
issued a response to Mr Ms complaint.  
Even if I accept Mr M was given wrong information, I dont think this has caused any 
financial loss or other significant impact to warrant me making an award. I say this because 
Mr M was given the correct information shortly after he received correspondence from 
VWFS solicitors. And in any event, Mr M told us that VWFS solicitors agreed to place 
collections activity on hold while our service investigated his complaint. So, he has now 
received the hold he thought he would get and no payments have been required to be made 
by Mr M in the meantime.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman