DRN-3004847
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Covea Insurance Plcs handling of their home insurance claim 
for damage caused by an escape of water.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their home insurance policy at the start of March 2020 
following their discovery that the water meter located outside their front door had been 
leaking and had damaged their property. Prior to making the claim they had also made 
another claim in the Autumn of 2019 for damage caused by another water meter located 
near to their home. On both occasions the utility company attended to install new meters. 
This complaint relates to the second claim only. 
A claims management company representing Mr and Mrs P (which was already involved in 
the first claim) notified Covea about the claim on 4 March 2020. At the same time it sent 
Covea a schedule of remedial works detailing the repairs necessary to reinstate the 
property. It said that once Covea had accepted liability along with the proposed schedule of 
works it would arrange for its contractors to undertake the reinstatement works. 
Covea felt that the costs were excessive for the damage being claimed for. So, it instructed
its own contractor to provide an estimate for the repair works. Unfortunately, because of the 
situation with Covid-19 Coveas contractor couldnt arrange an inspection visit. In an attempt 
to move the claim along, Covea asked Mr and Mrs Ps representative to provide 
photographs of the damage alongside the costs it thought were needed to reinstate the 
property so it could see if a desktop valuation of the claim could be completed instead.
Coveas claims team then reviewed the claim and it asked Mr and Mrs Ps representative for 
some more information about how the reinstatement costs had been arrived at. The 
information Covea received from Mr and Mrs Ps representative wasnt sufficient to allow it to 
determine how the costs had been calculated. So, Covea asked for more information again 
to help it assess the claim. 
Part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim was for a replacement front door which they said had rotted in 
part as a result of the leak. Covea compared the photographs of the front door with those 
taken in the first claim and thought the door looked the same. It thought the damage to the 
front door was the result of wear and tear which was excluded from cover under the policy. 
Covea eventually offered Mr and Mrs P a cash settlement of £1,572.16. Mr and Mrs P 
werent happy with how Covea had valued their claim and thought the amount they had been 
offered was insufficient for the damage caused. They were also unhappy with the time their 
claim was taking to resolve and with the fact that Covea had declined to cover the damage 
to their front door. So Mr and Mrs Ps representative raised a complaint with Covea on their 
behalf. 
Covea issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint on 26 May 2020. Covea 
explained to Mr and Mrs P how itd dealt with their claim so far and said it did need a cost 
breakdown of the remedial works from Mr and Mrs P. But it said that due to the 
unprecedented circumstances caused by the pandemic, it felt the best way forward was if it 
provided Mr and Mrs Ps representative with the information itd based its costs on so their 
representative could review it and let Covea know where it thought the shortfalls were. 
Covea said that once it had received that information it would be able to discuss settlement 
further. In respect of the front door, Covea maintained its position that the damage was the 
result of wear and tear which wasnt covered under the policy. As Covea didnt think itd 
done anything wrong, it didnt uphold their complaint. 
Unhappy with Covea response, Mr and Mrs P complained to this service in November 2020. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and initially thought it shouldnt be 
upheld. She explained that although the claim had continued beyond the date of the final 
response she could only look at what had happened up to that point. 
Our investigator didnt think that Covea had unreasonably delayed the claim and noted that it 
was Mr and Mrs Ps representative (who had since ceased to represent them) who had 
delayed in providing the detailed explanation Covea sought. Our investigator noted that the 
cash settlement offered wasnt one Mr and Mrs P were happy with but said she could see 
that when the offer was made Covea didnt have all the information it needed and, she 
noted, that since the final response letter, Covea had agreed with Mr and Mrs P that it would 
carry out the repairs. So, she thought the cash offer Covea had made by the date of the final 
response letter had been fair. And finally, our investigator didnt think, based on the evidence 
shed seen, that Covea had unfairly declined the claim for the front door. 
Mr and Mrs P responded to say that they werent party to the communications between their 
representative and Covea in the period before the final response letter was issued. So they 
said they accepted our investigators view about their complaint about delays with the claim 
but were still concerned about the ongoing lack of progress. They said that the fact Coveas 
contractors had since costed the reinstatement works at about £45,000 vindicated their view 
that the original cash settlement had been inadequate. But in relation to the front door, Mr 
and Mrs P said they couldnt accept our investigators findings. They provided comment and 
evidence (in the form of independent reports) in response to show how the door had been 
damaged by the leak. 
Our investigator sent the evidence Mr and Mrs P had provided to Covea. Covea reviewed 
the evidence and said that the reports provided didnt agree on how the damage to the door 
had occurred and it maintained its view that the door was in a poor condition prior to the 
claim. Covea said that there was no evidence that rot was present and that the reports 
provided by Mr and Mrs Ps two contractors differed in relation to whether the issue was 
internal or external. Covea referred to a comment made by Mr and Mrs Ps representative 
early on in the claim in which it said it tended to agree the damage to the door was the result 
of wear and tear. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again and recommended that it was upheld in part. 
She said any complaint about any ongoing claim delays would need to be referred to Covea 
as a new complaint because this complaint was confined to what happened up to 26 May 
2020. Our investigator said her view on the cash settlement amount Covea had offered 
Mr and Mrs P prior to the final response letter remained the same  namely that it was based 
on a lack of information at that point in time. But in respect of the front door, our investigator 
thought that the reports Mr and Mrs P had recently provided were persuasive as to the fact 
the door had been damaged by the leak. She accepted that the two reports didnt entirely 
agree with each other but noted that they did agree that the damage had been caused by 
the leak and that the door had absorbed the water becoming damaged in the process.Our investigator recommended that Covea consider the claim for the front door along with 
the rest of the claim. Our investigator also recommended that Covea pay Mr and Mrs P 
compensation of £75 for the additional trouble and upset theyd been caused. 
Mr and Mrs P accepted our investigators recommendations. Covea responded to say it 
didnt think the reports obtained by Mr and Mrs P could be said to be independent because 
theyd been prepared by contractors looking to complete works for a potential customer. It 
said it still considered the damage to the door to be the result of wear and tear. It asked for 
the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of complaint and lack of claim progress
As our investigator set out, I can only look here in this decision at whats happened from the 
point the claim was made on 5 March 2020 up until the date of Coveas final response on
26 May 2020. This is the period Mr and Mrs P complained about to Covea. As they are now 
aware, if they are unhappy about anything thats happened after the date that Covea issued 
its final response  and I include in that their continued frustration that their claim remains 
ongoing  then they will need to raise a new complaint with Covea. If they are unhappy with 
any future complaint response they receive, then they can make a further complaint to this 
service. 
Complaints that are made mid-way through insurance claims are always tricky and Mr and 
Mrs P may find it best to wait for the claim to be concluded before raising a second 
complaint. That way everything could be looked into at the same time. But, of course, the 
decision of whether to do so rests with them. 
In response to our investigators first opinion, Mr and Mrs P accepted that any delays for the 
period in question seemed to be the fault of their representative and not Covea. 
Consequently, theres no need for me to consider that issue any further here. 
Fairness of cash settlement offered
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs P wouldve been frustrated at the initial amount Covea 
offered them to settle the claim. And I can appreciate that the progression of their claim 
since means they feel vindicated in their view that the initial amount offered was wholly 
inadequate. But I have to look at what happened up to 26 May 2020 and why Covea made 
the offer it did. And I can see that it was based on the inadequate information provided by Mr 
and Mrs Ps representative. Covea had asked Mr and Mrs Ps representative repeatedly to 
provide a breakdown of the reinstatement costs submitted but it wouldnt do so. So, I dont 
think, up to the point in time thats the subject of this complaint, that Covea had done a lot 
wrong. 
And I can see that in response to their complaint Covea offered Mr and Mrs P a way forward 
by saying it was happy to provide their representative with the information itd based its costs 
on so the representative could review it and let Covea know where it thought the shortfalls 
might be. Given the circumstances at that point in time, I think Covea acted fairly and 
reasonably in this respect. 
Front door claimMr and Mrs P maintain that there is clear evidence that the door frame is warped and rotten. 
They have also said that he damage to the base of the door is from the inside outwards and 
starts at the point where the door comes into contact with the rotten door frame. And finally 
they have said that the damage to the door is predominantly on the inside which isnt 
consistent with damage caused by weathering (as maintained by Covea). 
In support of their position, Mr and Mrs P have provided two opinions. The first from 
November 2020 contains the following comment:
Following a site inspection from my professional opinion it seems as though the water
damage from the outside water meter has set into both the door frame and door leaf which
has left both with internal rotting.
So this expert is saying that the door has been damaged internally  via the absorption of 
water into the frame and door leaf  caused by the leaking water meter. 
The second report from July 2021 contains the following comment: 
My view is that although the door will undoubtedly have weathered over the years, it is
equally indisputable that it will have absorbed moisture as a result of your leaks, over a
prolonged period of time.
The fact that the door is showing more significant rot on the inside base of the door is
evidence that the water has been making its way into the door through the saturation of the
frame. It is likely that sun and greater air movement on the outside of the door has probably
helped to evaporate moisture from the outer face of the door whilst the inner face has
remained damp for longer. I don't think there can be any doubt that the water leak has had
an impact on the door over and above general weathering.
This report concludes that the door has absorbed moisture as a result of the leaks being 
absorbed into the frame and then, on contact, into the door itself. So there are two reports 
from two separate parties attributing damage to the door to the leak. Ive seen the 
photographs of the door and agree that internal damage is visible. Ive also seen 
photographs of where the door has had to be shaved down so it will open and close. Whilst 
the reports may not mirror each other exactly they agree that it was the leak that caused the 
damage. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that he door was somewhat weathered (externally) before it 
was damaged by the second leak. But I understand that despite being so, it was fulfilling its 
function by opening and closing without impediment. Since the leak though, the evidence 
Ive seen indicates that the door has absorbed water and has started to stick and rot. If the 
door had not been damaged in this way then I wouldnt be requiring Covea to include it as 
part of the claim. But it is reasonable to conclude from the available evidence that it has. 
And I note that Covea hasnt produced any expert opinion of its own to counter the two 
reports supplied by Mr and Mrs P. It has referred to a comment made by Mr and Mrs Ps 
representative early on in the claim that the damage to the door was consistent with wear 
and tear. But I dont think this comment  made by a party that wasnt a door expert and 
which asked Mr and Mrs P to find a door company themselves to undertake the remedial 
work required  can reasonably be said to outweigh the evidence Mr and Mrs P have since 
provided. And whilst the two reports Mr and Mrs P have provided have been prepared by 
companies looking to supply the door they do both reach the same conclusion about the 
damage. The comments made can reasonably be said to be factual and I have no fair 
reason to disregard the validity of either. So I dont think Covea has done enough to show that it has fairly declined this part of Mr and 
Mrs Ps claim. I think that the claim for the front door should be considered with the rest of 
the claim. 
Compensation
I think that Mr and Mrs P have been put to some inconvenience by Covea regarding their 
claim for their door so I think it should pay them compensation of £75 for the additional 
trouble this has caused them.
Putting things right
I think that Covea should consider the claim for the damaged front door (and frame) 
alongside the rest of Mr and Mrs Ps claim. I also think that Covea should pay Mr and Mrs P 
£75 for the additional trouble and upset its decision to exclude the front door from the claim 
caused them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Covea Insurance plc to take the 
steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman