DRN-4488478
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the 
money they lost when Mrs G fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs G saw a social media post from her nephews account promoting cryptocurrency 
trading. She reached out to him via the social media platform and was put in touch with the 
trading company  S.
After speaking to both S and her nephew via social media, Mrs G decided to invest. She 
sent a number of payments from her joint Nationwide account to a cryptocurrency exchange, 
to buy cryptocurrency to send on to S.
After sending over a number of payments, Mrs G tried to make a withdrawal  but was told 
she needed to pay 10% of the value first. She attempted this three times, but still wasnt able 
to withdraw her funds. She was directed to set up and send funds on to a new account, 
which she thought she had access to  but didnt. I understand some of the later 
transactions were funded from an account she holds in her country of residence.
It transpired that Mrs Gs nephews social media profile had been hacked and used by 
scammers to promote a fake trading platform. Mrs G has shown her profile was 
subsequently hacked and used in a similar way. 
Realising she had been scammed, Mrs G contacted Nationwide. It investigated her fraud 
claim but didnt agree to refund her. It maintained its position when she complained about 
the claim outcome. It said there was no evidence of fraudulent activity. I understand it paid 
£25 compensation for a delay cancelling Mr and Mrs Gs debit card following the fraud claim.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs G referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs G should be refunded. She said it was 
unclear whether Mrs G had been scammed  but regardless, she didnt think Nationwide had 
cause to be concerned about the payments at the time, so hadnt done anything wrong by 
sending them as requested.
Mr and Mrs G appealed the investigators view. In summary, they said Nationwide should 
have been concerned as they sent around £15,000 to cryptocurrency in a matter of days. 
So, their case was passed to me to review.
I issued my provisional decision in November 2023 explaining I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. Pending clarification from Nationwide about the payment order, I proposed that it 
should refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Gs loss from the seventh or eighth scam payment 
onwards.
I invited both parties to submit further comments or evidence in response to what I was 
minded to conclude. Nationwide responded to confirm it accepted my provisional decision, 
and that it would refund Mr and Mrs G from the seventh payment onwards. 
Mr and Mrs G initially queried the payments we were considering. But they have since 
confirmed the table I set out covers all the scam payments made from the Nationwide 
account.
Mr and Mrs G also queried why the 50% refund was from payment seven (or eight) onwards, 
rather than the full amount. They went on to say the sixth payment was the point at which 
Nationwide should have intervened, so that should be included in the refund. They also 
queried why Nationwide said a tax deduction would apply to the interest award. Mrs G also 
highlighted some difficult circumstances from the time of the scam which affected her 
mindset. 
As both parties have responded, Im now proceeding to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, largely for the same reasons. So much of what I set out below will be a repetition of 
what I explained in my provisional decision. But I have amended my reasoning to reflect the 
responses I have received from both sides.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is that Mr 
and Mrs G are liable for payments they authorise  as Nationwide is expected to execute 
their authorised payment instructions without undue delay. And its accepted that Mrs G 
authorised these payments.
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Nationwide to take 
additional steps before processing a payment. Such as when there are grounds to suspect 
the payment presented a fraud risk. That might occur when a payment is significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic compared to the normal use of the account. And/or if the account 
activity fits a known pattern of fraud.
Nationwide argues no fraud took place as the payments were sent to Mrs Gs own 
cryptocurrency wallet. But thats common in cryptocurrency scams. Victims tend to send 
funds via genuine merchants, to purchase cryptocurrency for their investment. The 
regulator and Action Fraud has warned about this dating back to mid-2018. So this is 
something I would expect Nationwide to have been aware of, and factored into its anti-fraud 
measures, at the time of these payments.
Moreover, I am satisfied the payments resulted in Mr and Mrs G incurring harm from 
financial fraud. Mrs G has provided extensive records to support this. Her cryptocurrency 
wallet shows the payments she made from Nationwide being credited  and then very 
promptly moved on. She has shown us records of Ss platform, which she sent the funds on 
to. And shes provided a record of her contact with the other platform she was directed to 
send fund to later in the scam, allegedly to withdraw her profits, confirming she doesnt have 
access to that account.
Mrs Gs explanation of what occurred is also consistent with how these scams tend to 
unfold. S told her she needed to keep loading funds to make a withdrawal. As Nationwide 
will know, a legitimate trader wouldnt require this.As I think Mrs G fell victim to a scam, what Im considering is whether Nationwide should 
have been on notice that she was at risk. And, if so, whether appropriate anti-fraud action 
would have prevented any fraudulent losses she incurred.
Relevant to this is the order in which the card payments were requested. Based on 
Nationwides response to my provisional decision, I am using the order they appear on the 
statements  as Nationwide has accepted this, and it leads to an earlier intervention point.
Nationwide order and statement date Amount
Payment one: 27 June 2022 £509.76
Payment two: 29 June 2022 £72.41
Payment three: 29 June 2022 £1,700.00
Payment four: 29 June 2022 £734.16
Payment five: 29 June 2022 £26.66
Payment six: 30 June 2022 £3,856.12
Payment seven: 1 July 2022 £205.00
Payment eight: 1 July 2022 £550.00
Payment nine: 1 July 2022 £1,698.35
Payment ten: 1 July 2022 £60.00
Payment eleven: 2 July 2022 £169.21
Payment twelve: 2 July 2022 £4,050.00
Payment thirteen: 4 July 2022 £330.00
Payment fourteen: 4 July 2022 £220.00
Payment fifteen: 5 July 2022 £215.00
Payment sixteen: 6 July 2022 £210.00
TOTAL £14,096.91
Ive considered how the account was used prior to these payments. For a long period, it was 
largely inactive. There were a few small transactions in early 2022. Then in May 2022, 
around £36,000 was paid in  seemingly from Mrs Gs pension. Around £17,500 of this was 
moved out to bank accounts in Mrs Gs name. And there was a transaction of £1,393 which 
looks as though it was a car purchase. The remaining balance was in the region of £17,500.
Then, in June 2022, the cryptocurrency payments start  with a few lower payments made in 
between. The most significant is a payment of just over £2,000, again to Mrs Gs account.
Taking an overall view of the account activity, I think the cryptocurrency payments did 
present a clear indication that Mr and Mrs G might be at risk from fraud. It was a significant 
change in the operation of the account. They had never made cryptocurrency payments 
before, and the other payments were largely transfers to other bank accounts they held. To 
send such a high volume of payments for such a high overall value within a week or so 
looked uncharacteristic  and symptomatic of a cryptocurrency scam.
 
I dont think Nationwide had cause for concern immediately. Customers can, and do, elect to 
pay genuine cryptocurrency merchants for legitimate reasons. But I think there came a point 
at which it should have reached out to Mr and Mrs G, to find out more about what they were 
doing  to assess whether they were at risk of foreseeable financial harm from fraud.
I think Nationwide ought to have intervened on the seventh payment. By that point, Mrs G 
had been making a high number of cryptocurrency payments on concurrent days - including 
several on the same day  and for a significant amount.I appreciate Mr and Mrs G think the intervention should have happened on payment six. 
Drawing a line on exactly when this should have happened is a difficult judgment call. Im 
satisfied my conclusion that the seventh payment is when Nationwide should have 
intervened is reasonable.
I dont think the first scam payment (around £500) appeared particularly concerning. Two 
days later, a series of cryptocurrency payments were made in one day. The value of which 
was around £2,500. The gap after payment one means Mrs G had time to stop and 
deliberate on whether to proceed. I dont think the amount sent on 29 June warranted 
intervention given this timing, the overall account use, and the value of the payments.
Nor do I think Nationwide is at fault for not intervening on the sixth payment  made the next 
day, at slightly under £4,000. It was the only payment that day and, although an increase, I 
dont consider it a substantial increase. But when Mrs G continued to make further payments 
of this type for the third day in a row, and had sent over £7,000 overall, I do think the value 
and volume of payments warranted intervention. 
If Nationwide had reached out to Mr and Mrs G to find out more about the circumstances of 
the payment, I think it would have realised they were falling victim to a scam - bearing in 
mind it will be more familiar with the characteristics of cryptocurrency scams than the 
average person. Ive seen no indication Mrs G wouldnt have been upfront about what she 
was doing if asked; she thought the trader was genuine, and her contact with S shows no 
indication she was instructed to lie if questioned about the payments.
The pattern of finding the trader on social media and being directed to set up a 
cryptocurrency wallet to send funds on to another platform would have sounded suspicious. 
Nationwide could have warned Mrs G of this, and advised her to contact her nephew in 
another way - given it will know how scammers use hacked accounts to promote 
themselves. And so I think its likely that appropriate intervention would have uncovered the 
scam and prevented further fraudulent losses from being incurred.
For these reasons, I consider it fair to hold Nationwide liable for the loss incurred from the 
point at which I think it should have intervened (so from payment seven). I know Mr and 
Mrs G have questioned why Im not recommending a refund covering all the scam 
payments. But it wouldnt be fair to expect Nationwide to reimburse them for losses which I 
dont think are attributable to its failings. I have explained above why I dont hold Nationwide 
at fault for processing the first six scam payments. 
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs G should share any liability for the preventable loss 
by way of contributory negligence. I do appreciate this was a sophisticated scam involving a 
fake trading platform. But overall, I do think its fair to expect Mr and Mrs G to share some 
liability for the following reasons:
I think there were some missed warnings signs from Mrs Gs interactions with the 
scammers. For example, the name she corresponded with them under was 
somewhat different to the website/platform address she sent the funds to. It seems 
they originally provided an address matching their name. Mrs G responded that this 
generated a deceptive website warning. The scammers then provided a different 
website address that was somewhat different to their name.
It doesnt seem Mrs G gave much challenge or question to why the name had 
changed, or why they had originally provided a link to a website identified as 
deceptive. She also sent several payments to allow her to withdraw funds, even 
though this hadnt worked multiple times.This was also a very significant amount of money to invest. And the nature of trading 
S claimed to be providing is unregulated and high risk. Mrs Gs interactions with the 
scammers suggest she didnt have much knowledge about this type of investment. 
Yet she proceeded to send a lot of money to Ss platform despite the warning signs. 
By not looking into safer options for the funds, or taking further steps to verify the 
merchant, that contributed to the loss incurred.
I have considered what Mrs G has told us about her circumstances at the time. 
These are factors she told us about prior to my provisional decision, and which I had 
considered when making my findings. While I appreciate the difficulty of Mrs Gs 
situation, I still think its fair to expect her (and Mr G, as the joint account holder) to 
share liability. I think there were further steps she could have taken to protect herself 
which could have lessened, or avoided, the fraudulent losses. 
Overall, for the loss I think Nationwide ought to have prevented, I think it would be fair for Mr 
and Mrs G to share 50% liability  and for Nationwide to refund the other 50%. Nationwide 
should pay interest on top of this to compensate them for the loss of use of the funds. 
While Mr and Mrs G have questioned why Nationwide has said it will deduct tax from the 
interest award, interest is normally taxable as income. But that may depend on their 
individual income tax position. So, as my award explains, Nationwide should make any 
deduction clear, and provide a tax deduction certificate if requested, so Mr and Mrs G can 
make any further enquires with HM Revenue & Customs if necessary. 
For those payments which Ive found Nationwide isnt at fault for, I dont think it could have 
recovered the loss. The funds were moved on from the platform they were sent to, and the 
merchant provided the expected service by loading and exchanging the funds. So there 
wouldnt be grounds to charge back the payments from that merchant.
I cant see the compensation for the delay ordering a new card has been disputed. The delay 
doesnt appear to have left Mr and Mrs G at risk, as the scammers didnt know their card 
details. Nor can I see the delay caused them much avoidable trouble and upset. So Im not 
directing Nationwide to do anything more to address this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right, Nationwide Building Society must refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Gs loss from the seventh 
scam payment onwards. And it should pay 8% interest on that amount, running from the 
dates of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman