DRN-3992421
The complaint
Mr L says Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) mis-managed and mis-sold his 
pension fund.
What happened
Over a decade ago Mr L received advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA) to 
move a personal pension to Scottish Widows. In 2012, when he was 61, the same adviser 
was involved when he switched his funds into a cautious lifestyle plan to reduce his 
exposure to stock markets as he approached retirement. As I understand it, Mr L was 
invested in the Scottish Widows Pension Protector Pension (Series 4) fund.
In October 2022, Mr L wrote to Scottish Widows with concerns about his pension funds. He 
said:
I refer to my above pension which I have had for many years which as at 10/10/2021 was 
valued at £406,629, but today valued at less than £300,000. I wish to complain about the 
aptly named "SW Pension Protector Fund" which has fallen by 39.9% in the last 12 months. 
Whilst I understand risk and that investments can go up and down, and also the current 
economic climate, but how can a fund that is supposed to protect your pension lose 40% of 
its value in 12 months? If a fund is marketed as "protector", I believe it should offer some 
level of protection, otherwise it is not treating customers fairly.
Scottish Widows responded on 24 October 2022. It set out the context for considering the 
performance of his pension fund. It said:
Issues like the state of the global economy, rising prices of goods and services, 
international political developments like Russias invasion of Ukraine, and the continuing 
impact of Covid-19 have all contributed to recent stock market volatility.
More recently the situation has been exacerbated by a very sharp rise in inflation, and the 
rapid rise in interest rates as a consequence of this. This combination has resulted in falls in 
the price of shares and bonds.
Most recently, the UK market showed an extremely negative reaction to the UK mini-
budget, which led to a very sharp fall in the values of UK Government bonds and Sterling. 
Subsequent intervention by the Bank of England, including a £65bn bond-buying 
programme, has helped to stabilise these markets to some extent.
Scottish Widows went on to note features of the particular investment strategy being 
followed by the fund Mr L had selected:
The Pension Protector Fund aims to produce a return which reflects the price of annuities. It 
is aimed at people who want to take their pension at retirement date as an income for life  
known as an annuity. The fund holds bonds like those that are used to determine annuity 
rates in the market.
If annuities become more expensive (as interest rates fall) then the fund is expected to 
increase in value by a broadly similar amount. Equally, if annuities become less expensive 
(as interest rates rise) then the fund will reduce in value.
So, even if your pension fund has fallen in value, the annuity rate is likely to be higher so 
the amount of annual income you receive should be broadly the same.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with Scottish Widows response and he brought his complaint to this 
Service. An Investigator considered his case but didnt uphold it. He said Scottish Widows 
hadnt provided him with advice about which fund was most appropriate for his 
circumstances and attitude to risk. And it had provided him with annual statements and he 
couldve arranged for more regular information about fund performance. 
Mr L didnt accept the Investigators view. He said that his pension fund has been mis-
managed given the erosion in value it had suffered since October 2021. And that it had also 
been mis-sold because it hadnt protected his position as the fund name suggested it 
would. He said it couldnt have been low risk given the losses hed sustained.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ls case 
has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Scottish Widows for Mr L. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
My starting point is the stated objective of Mr Ls pension fund:
To provide a return consistent with the variations in market annuity rates with the aim of 
reducing annuity conversion risk. The benchmark index for the Fund is the iBoxx Sterling: 
Non Gilt Over 15 Year index (the Index). The Fund is actively managed. The Fund 
Manager aims to outperform the Index by 0.35% per annum on a rolling 3 year basis, before deduction of fees. At least 80% of the Fund will invest in long dated Sterling denominated 
investment grade corporate bonds. It may also invest in other investment grade corporate, 
government, supranational and emerging market bonds, cash and cash like investments. 
The Fund Manager will aim to reduce the risk of annuity conversions, the fund management 
strategy may change in line with market annuity rates and fixed interest yields. Investment in 
the asset classes will be direct and indirect using derivatives to seek to meet the Funds aim. 
The use of derivatives depends on market conditions and is limited as the intention is this 
should not change the Funds risk profile. Derivatives and stock lending may be used in a 
way that is designed to reduce risk, or cost and/or generate extra income or growth (often 
referred to as efficient portfolio management).
I wouldnt expect a layperson to understand everything described here, but what is clear is 
that his fund had a distinct strategy, and that was linked to protecting, as far as possible, the 
value of his funds in terms of an annuity income he might secure from his pension pot when 
he decided to take the benefits.
I think the Investigator effectively set out in practical terms the goal of this investment 
strategy when he noted:
this graph showing average annuity income that could be purchased over the last 18 
years. It shows that for every £100,000 in your pension fund, you could purchase an annual 
income of around £5,000 in January 2022. However, now in January 2023, you could expect 
to purchase an annuity of £7,233 a year for every £100,000 in your pension fund. If your 
pension fund was £400,000 in January 2022, you might have been able to purchase an 
income of around £20,000 a year, but as of the beginning of January 2023, if you have 
£300,000 in your pension fund, you might be able to purchase an annuity of over £21,000.
The loss of value in Mr Ls pension pot was related to the investment strategy it was 
following and the circumstances around market performance that Scottish Widows has 
already set out for him in some detail. Ive not seen anything in the evidence that shows 
Scottish Widows mis-managed his funds.
Mr L has also said that his pension fund was mis-sold. It seems that hes saying he thought 
he was invested in a low risk product, but it hasnt turned out like that. I think this depends on 
what his objective was. 
For example, a desire to protect capital versus the desire to protect a certain level of income 
in retirement are likely to require different investment strategies. A low risk approach 
focussed on maintaining capital value may look quite different to a low risk strategy for 
maintaining income.
It follows that I dont find evidence that Standard Life mis-sold his pension fund.
I dont have sight of any advice provided by Mr Ls IFA. I dont know what his objectives were 
on each occasion when he received advice. Nor do I have details about his circumstances 
and attitude to risk when he received any advice. I dont know whether his IFA 
recommended the Pension Protector Pension fund from Scottish Widows portfolio. And if so 
what was discussed and considered. I dont know what other options were reviewed and 
why they were discounted. 
However, I dont think Scottish Widows recommended the fund to Mr L. It made the product 
available and provided fund management. He decided to invest in the fund, with or without 
the advice of an IFA.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman