DRN-3535915
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society when she 
went into branch to open an account for her son. She is also complaining about the service 
which followed. Miss B feels she has been a victim of discrimination. 
What happened
Miss B visited Nationwide to open an account for her son. Whilst in the branch she was told 
that she could only open the account online. She explained she would prefer to open the 
account in branch because she didnt like using online banking. Miss B says the staff 
member then asked her in a tone that made her feel humiliated do you have a disability.
Miss B says she was left feeling upset and this wasnt the first time the staff members in the 
branch had spoken to her in a rude and degrading tone. She feels each time she visited the 
branch Nationwide staff make remarks about her and whisper making it obvious that they 
were talking about her.  She also explained that when she has bumped into staff outside of 
the workplace, they have given her the impression that they dislike her. This has made her 
feel anxious every time she has visited the branch.
Following Miss B visiting the branch, she says her son then received a letter, stating he had 
behaved in an inappropriate manner. Miss B was upset and very unhappy as her son had 
only spoken to confirm his name.
So, Miss B contacted Nationwide about this and having misplaced the letter (addressed to 
her son) she asked it to resend it. She says Nationwide then changed the content of the 
letter to suggest the complaint was regarding her conduct on behalf of her son and sent her 
a copy addressed to her. Miss B says Nationwide has acted fraudulently and falsified 
documents and not investigated her complaint correctly. 
Nationwide has now closed Miss Bs accounts with 60 days notice. She says she has been 
discriminated against on the grounds of race and mistreated by the staff.
Nationwide said Miss B on more than one occasion had acted unreasonably and offended its 
staff members and this resulted in Miss B previously receiving a warning. As such, as its 
relationship with Miss B had broken down, it decided to end its banking relationship with her 
as it is entitled to do inline with its Terms and Conditions. 
In regards to the letter sent to her son, Nationwide consistently said the letter issued on 15 
September 2021 was addressed to Miss B and was in relation to her conduct, not her sons.
Miss B didnt agree, so the case was referred to our service. Our investigator looked into 
Miss Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Miss B remained unhappy so asked 
for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken into account Miss Bs very detailed submissions about what happened at the time. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. Miss B has more than one complaint 
at our service, but this decision will be concentrating on the relationship breakdown between 
Miss B and Nationwide.
While the testimonies of Miss B and Nationwide differ substantially, there are aspects of the 
complaint which are not disputed. But I would like to point out that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The first thing I need to clarify is the fact that this service is unable to make findings on 
whether or not something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010, this is for a 
court to decide. However, I can consider whether or not the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the 
Equality Act 2010, into consideration. 
Miss B says she went into the branch on 4 August 2021 to open an account for her son, who 
she was assisting due to his disability. She feels she was discriminated against on the 
grounds of race.
Its not in dispute that Miss B was told to open the account online. Nationwide say this was 
due to it not conducting branch appointments at that time. However, Miss B didnt want to do 
that and continued to request it be done in branch. Both parties agree Miss B was asked if 
she had any vulnerabilities or disabilities which prevented her from opening an account 
online, however Miss B felt offended and embarrassed by this as it was asked openly and in 
a rude manner. She has explained this (along with other occasions of her visiting branch and 
experiences she had with a staff member outside of the workplace) compounded her 
feelings that Nationwide was treating her unfairly. And she says she saw staff members 
whispering about her on the day in question.
I am sorry Miss B felt this way and I appreciate she had an increased level of anxiety when 
visiting branch which was likely to be amplified after the event in question. However, given 
the circumstances at the time, I dont think it is unreasonable that Nationwide wasnt 
conducting branch appointments. Therefore, I dont think she was treated differently to any 
other customer asking for the same service.
While I acknowledge that Miss B felt uncomfortable with the questions she was asked, it 
wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to enquire if there were any reasons as to why she 
couldnt open an account online. I say this because Nationwide is obliged to ask these 
questions to establish if a consumer has a disability or vulnerability it needs to take into 
account and make adjustments for. As such, if Nationwide hadnt asked this, it wouldnt be 
fulfilling its obligations. 
I understand Miss B wanted Nationwide to provide the CCTV footage, to show how she was 
treated in branch. But Nationwide had explained due to the passage of time it is no longer 
available. And while I appreciate this is frustrating for Miss B, it is common for a business to 
have a retention policy for its CCTV footage. However, I have also considered how useful 
the CCTV footage would have been in providing clarity on what happened. I say that 
because, CCTV footage doesnt usually record sound. As such the comments and tone of the questions asked (which Miss B says were directed at her by Nationwide) wouldnt have 
been recorded, as such I cant be sure it wouldve shown who was at fault. 
Nationwide has said Miss B was unhappy about being told she would need to open the 
account online and that she became irate at being asked this. It felt Miss B acted in an 
intimidating manner which made staff members feel uncomfortable. In circumstances where 
staff members feel threatened in branch (as Nationwide have alleged), we expect the 
business in question, in this case Nationwide, to follow its own internal security process. I 
have reviewed the system notes and security logs provided by Nationwide and I can see it 
did raise a warning and Miss B was sent a letter on 15 September 2021, in the letter it 
stated:
Whilst I fully appreciate you may not agree with our assessment of your behaviour on this 
occasion, please understand this is how the behaviour was perceived by the individuals 
involved. I hope this letter clarifies my position on the matter and that we can continue a 
positive banking relationship going forward. However, should you wish to discuss this with 
me, my contact details can be found above.
So, while I dont dispute Miss Bs version of events, its fair to conclude both parties felt there 
was an exchange of words or behaviour which was unreasonable and escalated to the 
extent where Nationwide felt it was necessary to follow its unreasonable behaviour policy 
and issue a warning. However, I do note that during a call with Miss B (to explain the 
warning letter and give her the outcome of her complaint) the advisor did apologise for how 
Miss B was feeling. On balance, I think it is unlikely Nationwide would have taken these 
steps if Miss B hadnt also demonstrated some degree of unreasonable behaviour. As such, 
I think its fair to conclude that Miss Bs and Nationwides relationship began to break down 
at this point. 
I have listened to several calls between Miss B and Nationwide since she visited branch. 
Miss B made comments referring to the staff members as uneducated women, bored 
women, lazy, not competent to do their job, she accused advisors of being conditioned and 
said she would cause a war. As such, I can see why Nationwide felt these comments were 
unreasonable. Having listened to the calls I can also hear that Miss B on several occasions 
interrupted the advisors, talked over them and wouldnt let them speak and in some calls 
became irate. While I appreciate Miss B was very upset, by not letting Nationwide advisors 
speak or explain their processes it meant often the calls ended without Miss B getting an 
answer to her concern which compounded how she felt. As such, it is clear that the banking 
relationship between Miss B and Nationwide had come to an end. 
Nationwides Terms and Conditions allow them to close an account with 60 days notice. 
They notified Miss Bs that the account would be closed and gave the appropriate time scale, 
so I cant conclude it acted unfairly in regard to this.
Miss B has said on 15 September her son received a letter about his inappropriate 
behaviour, which upset her tremendously, as the only time he spoke in branch was to 
answer a security question. However, as she misplaced this letter, she asked Nationwide to 
re-send it. When it did, it was addressed to her. So, she believed Nationwide adapted the 
letter. I have listened to the calls when Miss B contacted Nationwide after receiving the 
letter, and she is very emotional and upset her son was blamed for this. Nationwide has 
continued to say they letter was always addressed to Miss B and provided a copy of the 
letter. Miss B is unable to provide the letter she said she received as she has misplaced it. 
While I dont doubt Miss Bs version of events, I havent seen the letter and so I cant 
reasonably conclude that Nationwide issued this or adapted the letter. However, it is now 
clear that the warning was intended for Miss B and Nationwide has clarified this on several 
occasions.To summarise, I appreciate Miss B feels that Nationwide has discriminated against her on 
the grounds of race. But as I explained above, it is not my role to make a decision on 
whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached. But I do note that on some calls there 
was a lack of empathy in regard to how Miss B felt. Comments such as you suggested the 
branch was racist, what did they say that was racist and what did they say exactly that was 
racist. And while I am not suggesting Nationwide did treat Miss B unfairly, I do think these 
comments demonstrated a lack of understanding of the issues she had raised and empathy 
about how Miss B felt. However, from assessing all the evidence, on balance I am 
persuaded Mis B became irate, frustrated and said inappropriate comments about 
Nationwides staff. So, I am satisfied that the actions Nationwide took in regards to issuing a 
warning and closing Miss Bs account was reasonable and in line with its terms and 
conditions.
So, with that in mind I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman