DRN-2067340
The complaint
Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI which was attached to a credit card ending in the numbers 6001. 
The card was renewed in February 2000 and PPI was sold to Mrs P during a telephone call 
on 21 February. She said she didnt need PPI and she was unaware she had it.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with 
our adjudicators view, and she asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays says the policy was sold to Mrs P during a phone call, although it could not say who 
made the call. Mrs P says she cannot recall any details about the telephone sale, she was 
unaware the policy had been added and didnt know she was paying for it. Unfortunately, 
Barclays hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone call or any notes taken at the 
time  but this isnt surprising considering the sale took place twenty years ago. So I dont 
know how PPI was presented to Mrs P or what was said during the phone call. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs P has told us  that she did not know she was
paying for the policy or that it had been added to her account. But I also have to consider 
that because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over time. Ive also taken 
in to account what we know about how Barclays sold these policies around this time and 
everything weve seen in the past.
I think, on balance, its likely the Barclays adviser would have followed a sale script for the 
PPI calls they made and probably made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Mrs P would 
have been asked for her consent to the cover. Ive not been told enough to conclude 
otherwise.
I think its likely that PPI would have appeared on Mrs Ps credit card statements and I think
Mrs P would have questioned why she was paying for PPI if it was something she hadnt
agreed to buy. But it seems Mrs P continued to pay PPI for some years after it
was added to her account.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think Barclays probably made it clear the policy was optional 
and Mrs P chose to take it out.
Barclays said it recommend the PPI policy to Mrs P. So it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for her needs. I think it was suitable because it seems it was affordable, she wasnt 
caught by the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions) and she was eligible to buy it. 
I then looked at her financial circumstances to see if the policy remained suitable for her.
Mrs P said she would receive statutory sick pay. So I think the policy could have lasted for 
longer than and in addition to her sick pay if she made a successful claim on the policy. And 
I think Mrs P couldve found this policy of benefit if she was unable to work or unemployed. 
So I dont think her employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
She also said she could rely on her husband to pay her credit card repayments. I do 
understand the point she is making, but there was no guarantee this support would continue 
until she needed it at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this made the policy 
unsuitable.
For advised sales, Barclays also had to give Mrs P enough information about the policy
to decide if she wanted it or not.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But having decided she chose to 
have it and based on what I know about Mrs Ps circumstances it looks like it could still have 
been useful to her and theres nothing to make me think Mrs P couldnt afford the policy. So I 
dont think better information about the cost and benefits would have stopped her buying it.
I also dont think she would have been affected by any of the exclusions that might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as a medical condition of 
which she was already aware. So I dont think better information about the exclusions would 
have stopped Mrs P from buying the PPI. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ps comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman