DRN-2901983
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) unfairly declined her 
claim under their Buyer Protection Policy.
What happened
On 9 January 2021, Mrs W purchased an item of clothing from an international seller 
using PayPal. The item cost just under £25.
After she received the item, she complained to the seller as she said the item didnt 
match the description and it wasnt of a satisfactory quality. As she was unable to 
resolve the matter with the seller directly, she raised a claim with PayPal under their 
Buyer Protection policy.
In response, PayPal explained they would be prepared to refund the full cost of the 
transaction, provided Mrs W uploaded tracking information to show the item had been 
returned. They informed her of this decision by email on 22 January 2021 and asked her 
to provide the requested information by 1 February 2021.
On 25 January 2021 and 29 January 2021 PayPal sent Mrs W reminder emails, as the 
requested tracking information hadnt been uploaded. On 1 February 2021 PayPal 
closed the claim, as Mrs W hadnt replied by the deadline.
After the deadline had passed, Mrs W provided evidence that she had shipped the item. 
Unfortunately, the tracking reference number she provided wasnt valid, so PayPal 
werent able to confirm that the item had actually been received by the seller. As such, 
they closed the claim again and declined to provide a refund.
Our investigator considered the matter and said he felt the complaint should be upheld. 
While Mrs W hadnt been able to provide valid tracking information, he said the evidence 
showed she had sent the package to the correct address. So, on the balance of 
probabilities, he felt it was more likely than not that the item had been received by the 
seller.
Mrs W accepted our investigators opinion, but PayPal disagreed. In summary they said, 
the terms of their Buyer Protection policy highlight the importance of providing proof of 
delivery and this was also set out clearly in the email correspondence they sent to Mrs W. 
They also said they cant disregard this important requirement as many correctly 
addressed packages are unfortunately still lost.
I previously issued a provisional decision and invited both sides to make any further 
submission if they wished. 
My provisional findings are copied below and form part of this decision:
I appreciate Mrs W now finds herself in a difficult position, as she no longer has the 
disputed item and shes also incurred additional postage costs. But for the reasons Ill 
now explain, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
PayPals User Agreement clearly sets out the terms of their Buyer Protection policy. 
The following term is relevant here as it says a buyer must:
Comply with PayPal's shipping requests in a timely manner, if you're 
filing a Significantly Not as Described claim. PayPal may require you, at your 
expense, to ship the item back to the seller, to PayPal or to a third party 
(which will be specified by PayPal) and to provide proof of delivery.
A further term explains:
IMPORTANT: You may be required to return the item to the seller or other 
party we specify as part of the settlement of your claim. PayPal Buyer 
Protection does not entitle you to reimbursement for the return shipping costs 
that you may incur.
The email PayPal sent Mrs W on 22 January 2021 reflects the above terms as it says:
To receive the refund, youll need to initiate the return shipment and upload 
the tracking information in the Resolution Centre before 1 February 2021. We 
suggest you retain a copy of the shipping label to verify the address of the 
recipient. If needed, we may ask you to provide this document later.
Based on the above, Im satisfied PayPal acted fairly and had sufficient grounds to 
close  Mrs Ws claim on 1 February 2021, as the tracking information they requested 
wasnt uploaded to their system by the deadline. This was despite the fact they had 
sent Mrs W two reminder emails.
Im also satisfied PayPal acted fairly by declining and closing the claim again, once 
they reviewed the proof of postage Mrs W provided. While there is no dispute the item 
was sent to the correct address, PayPal couldnt confirm the seller actually received 
the item, as the proof of postage didnt include valid tracking information. I dont think it 
would have been reasonable for PayPal to have relied on Mrs Ws postage receipt 
alone, as this could prejudice their position, in the event they received a follow up 
dispute about the refund from the seller.
Given the relatively low price of the disputed item, I appreciate the reasons Mrs W may 
have chosen to send the package back to the seller using Royal Mails International 
Standard service. Based on Royal Mails website, this appears to be the least 
expensive option and it doesnt include a tracking service. So, Im satisfied the tracking 
reference number Mrs W uploaded is likely to have been a receipt number, rather than 
a valid tracking reference.
While I empathise with Mrs Ws position, I dont think PayPal considered her claim 
unfairly. Under the terms of PayPals User Agreement, PayPal were entitled to ask Mrs 
W for proof of    delivery, so I dont think they did anything wrong by declining her claim when this evidence wasnt provided.
I didnt receive a response to my provisional decision from either PayPal or Mrs W.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered again all the evidence and arguments from the outset to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman