DRN-4385981
The complaint
Mr and Ms A complain that delays in providing advice, and poor advice then provided, by 
Plutus Wealth Management LLP, meant they missed out on the chance to secure a much 
more advantageous mortgage interest rate for their rental property.
What happened
Mr and Ms A rented out their UK property when they moved overseas. They had a mortgage 
with a lender I wont name here, and obtained permission to let the property. Mr and Ms A 
knew that their existing fixed interest rate mortgage deal would end at the end of October 
2022. So in June 2022, they contacted the mortgage broker at Plutus, seeking some advice 
on remortgaging.
Mr and Ms A told us they had used Plutus before, some time ago. They said theyd
previously received poor service from Plutus, and it was difficult to get any reply.
Mr and Ms A said they emailed Plutus about remortgaging on 11 June 2022, and then
chased a number of times. But they received no reply at all until a holding response, dated
30 June. That response apologised for having "completely missed this and said the broker
would reply ASAP.
Mr and Ms A then chased again, repeatedly, but it was over a month before they got any
further response. That said I have all the Info back from [your pre-existing lender] now and
I'm trying to figure out our best options for November. Will send shortly."
On 10 August, the broker wrote again to offer options, including a five year fixed rate at 
2.9%. Mr and Ms A said they wanted to take this option up. Mr and Ms A again received no
response for some time. On 22 August, a further chase received a response, saying the rate
had been secured the previous week, it would follow on from the existing deal, and there
was nothing for Mr and Ms A to do. However, on the following day, the lender wrote to Mr
and Ms A (at their previous address) to say that they werent eligible for this rate.
Mr and Ms A finally received this letter on 18 September. They then contacted the broker, on
21 September, asking the broker to speak to their existing lender, and also to look at other
options in the market. They chased this on 25 September, but said they heard nothing more,
so they arranged a tracker rate with their existing lender (for which Plutus was apparently
paid a fee) and complained on 25 October.
Mr and Ms A say they anticipate they could have secured a five year fixed rate of 3.5 to 4%,
but they said they were now facing rates of 7% or more.
For its part, Plutus said that it didnt consider, in 2022, that Mr and Ms A were existing
clients. Although they had used its services before, that was many years previously. And it
thought their initial emails read like rather speculative enquiries.
Plutus blames the delay in responding to Mr and Ms A on the market turmoil at the time. It
hasnt explained why the rate it said was secured for Mr and Ms A turned out to be
unsuitable for them, in their circumstances. But it has said it then sought to engage with Mr
and Ms A, once theyd complained. It offered to pay them the referral fee that it had received
from their existing lender, which was £728.90. And it sourced a number of options which
were suitable for them, as overseas landlords. These included a five year fixed rate of
4.99%. Plutus said it would pay Mr and Ms A any commission it received for arranging a
mortgage for them, and it didnt suggest there would be any fee.
Mr and Ms A didnt accept, or engage further with Plutus about remortgaging. They said they
anticipated their losses would be many thousands, and they offered to settle the complaint
for £25,000. When Plutus didnt accept that, Mr and Ms A brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr and Ms A had
contacted Plutus, and chased repeatedly, before any response was received. She also
noted that no formal fact find had been completed or any client agreement signed, and Mr
and Ms A werent charged Plutus normal fee of £495. She said Mr and Ms A couldve
sought advice elsewhere.
Our investigator said she understood Mr and Ms A believed they could have secured a
mortgage at a lower rate. But no application was submitted, so she couldnt know if Mr and 
Ms A would have secured a product. Mr and Ms A then remortgaged with their own lender.
Our investigator said Plutus had refunded £728.90 to Mr and Ms A in recognition of the
inconvenience caused. It also offered to make an application to a specialist lender and
rebate the fee. She thought Plutus had taken reasonable steps to put things right.
Mr and Ms A didnt agree. They said they could only see with hindsight that they ought to
have gone elsewhere. They said it was quite reasonable for them to expect, at the time, that
Plutus would provide them with the promised service. And Mr and Ms A still said theyd
experienced very substantial financial losses, which we hadnt referred to.
As no agreement was reached, this case was then passed to me for a final decision. And I 
then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Plutus told Mr and Ms A in early August that it had secured a rate which turned out to be 
for a product that their existing lender would not offer them. It hasnt explained how this
happened. I think Plutus was aware that Mr and Ms A were renting out their property, as
they mentioned this in their first email. So I think its more likely that Plutus made a 
mistake here, in applying for a remortgage that Mr and Ms A werent able to take up.
It appears there was then a delay in Mr and Ms A realising this, which appears to have
happened because their existing lender didnt hold an up to date address for them.
I know Plutus has offered to pay Mr and Ms A £728.90 to say sorry. This appears to 
have been rather a windfall for Plutus, as this money was paid to it by Mr and Ms As 
existing lender for arranging their mortgage, although Plutus didnt support them in their 
application, and doesnt appear to have been expecting this payment. I think its 
appropriate for Plutus to pay this money to Mr and Ms A, so Ill include this in my award.
I also think Plutus let Mr and Ms A down, both because it appears to have tried to 
secure for them a remortgage which wasnt suitable, and also because it then failed to take any further action to support them in obtaining a mortgage, until after they 
complained. I note that Mr and Ms A were left to secure their own remortgage, at a time 
of particular market turmoil following the 2022 mini-budget. So I think that Plutus should 
pay a little more compensation in this case.
But I dont think Plutus has to pay the amount of money that Mr and Ms A have 
indicated they think is owed here. Thats for two reasons. Firstly, Mr and Ms As loss 
appears to be somewhat speculative. They havent suggested the tracker rate they 
actually secured is worse than they could have achieved earlier in 2022. And they 
havent yet remortgaged onto a fixed rate. It doesnt seem reasonable to suggest that 
the best rate they might secure, and the level their losses should be based on, would be 
in the region of 7%, when Plutus appears to have been able to offer them a fixed rate of 
less than 5% in late 2022.
But secondly, and more importantly, Mr and Ms A argue that they should have had a
remortgage in place in June 2022, when they first contacted Plutus and it failed to 
respond. They said they could only see with hindsight that they ought then to have 
made a decision to use a different broker. They said it was quite reasonable for them to 
expect, at the time, that Plutus would provide them with the promised service. But I dont 
think that is quite right.
Mr and Ms As circumstances were complicated, as they were landlords living overseas.
They wanted to remortgage at a time when mortgage rates were rising sharply for the 
first time in some years. So its not clear why they chose then to leave this matter 
entirely in the hands of a business that theyd apparently had no dealings with for some 
time, and which they have, from the outset, acknowledged had been unreliable and 
difficult to contact in the past.
As Mr and Ms A are aware, our service resolves complaints on the basis of what the
ombudsman considers to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And I think Mr and Ms As previous experience of this business is one of those 
circumstances that I must take into account.
Our investigator noted that throughout June and July, when Mr and Ms A had received 
no substantive response from Plutus, they were also under no obligation to remain with 
the business. They were quite free to source advice elsewhere, either instead or in 
addition to their enquiry with Plutus. Given their previous experience and the fact that 
the service they appeared to be receiving at this point was a reduction from a level 
theyve said was already poor, it does seem surprising that they did not do so.
Our service isnt a regulator, and we arent primarily responsible for holding businesses 
to the relevant regulatory standards. Rather, we look at the impact of whats gone 
wrong, in any particular case, on the individuals affected. And here I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances of this case, to hold Plutus solely 
responsible for Mr and Ms A not obtaining a remortgage at the rates which may have 
been available to them in June or July 2022, and to base compensation on that. Rather, 
I think a payment of £500 in compensation, would be more appropriate here, in 
recognition of the frustrations Mr and Ms A have faced. I think that would provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this case.
I know that Mr and Ms A will be disappointed, but I dont think Plutus has to do more 
than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms A replied to make two points. First, they addressed the basis of any 
compensation. They said that Id suggested their claim was "somewhat speculative" 
because Plutus could have secured a fixed rate of under 5% for them in late 2022. They 
queried whether there was any evidence to support that rate being available to them, and 
said it was contrary to what their new broker told them. They thought they could only have 
obtained a fixed rate of 7% then. 
Mr and Ms A said our service could measure their loss by reference to the variable rate they 
actually secured, but then we would need to take into account all the interest rate rises over 
recent months, and take a view on future rate rises, as well as the risk of them having to sell 
their property in a depressed market. But they said they still thought their loss should be 
measured by comparing the rate they could have achieved in June 2022  which they said 
would have been 5% at the highest - with the rate they could have achieved after October 
2022  which they said their new broker put at 6.49% on 14 December. And they said that 
even on that basis - 1.49% p.a. for 5 years - their loss was in excess of £25k.
I did say in my provisional decision that I considered the suggested losses Mr and Ms A had 
mentioned were somewhat speculative, but that wasnt solely because the calculation of 
losses appeared to be based on them not subsequently being able to secure a rate lower 
than 7%. On that issue, Mr and Ms A say Plutus suggestion that it could have obtained a 
rate fixed for five years at 4.99%, in late December, wasnt evidenced, but I would note that 
the 7% rate they initially suggested for their losses was also inconsistent with the rates their 
new broker had suggested she could obtain for them in mid-December, of 6.49% fixed for 
five years, or 5% fixed for two years. 
However, I also suggested this loss was somewhat speculative because Mr and Ms A were 
calculating their losses based on payments they werent actually making, and rates they 
hadnt taken up. And there didnt seem to me to be compelling evidence here that the 
choices Mr and Ms A subsequently made about what mortgage to pursue, were as a result 
of mistakes which had been made by Plutus. So I wasnt persuaded that this approach was 
appropriate in this case.
Mr and Ms As second point was that my decision said they should not have relied on Plutus 
but should have looked elsewhere. Mr and Ms A said they didnt think that was legally 
correct. They said once Plutus had taken them on as clients, it owed them a duty of care, 
and that duty could not be watered down by its past track record. Mr and Ms A said they 
didnt think any court would say that they were contributorily negligent by failing to instruct 
back-up brokers. They said my decision as to what is fair must, at a minimum, encompass 
their basic compensation under the common law. And if, under the common law, Plutus 
owed them a duty to respond promptly to their requests, and if under the common law Plutus 
could not dilute that duty by saying they should have known not to rely on it, then Mr and Ms 
A said my decision should follow along similar lines.
I understand that Mr and Ms A are confident in their assessment of the law, but I havent 
reached such a clear-cut view on any position that might be taken by a court of this case. 
And I think its worth noting that Plutus doesnt accept Mr and Ms A were existing clients, 
that it didnt charge the usual fee, or sign any new contract with them. When I reached my provisional decision in this case, I was mindful of the duties on me to 
consider a number of matters, including relevant law and regulations, in reaching a decision 
on whats fair and reasonable here. But my overriding duty is to determine this complaint 
by reference to what is, in [my] opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. 
My provisional decision set out not only what Mr and Ms A said about Plutus having been 
difficult to work with in the past, but also that it failed to respond promptly to their enquiries. I 
think its worth adding that at this time, when Mr and Ms A say they were repeatedly chasing 
Plutus and receiving no response, interest rates were climbing rapidly. So I do still think it 
would have been reasonable then for Mr and Ms A to pursue other avenues for 
remortgaging.
I also note Mr and Ms A refused the suggested rate Plutus subsequently suggested it could 
secure for them, and a comparable rate their broker offered as a shorter term fix. They dont 
appear to have fixed their mortgage elsewhere. Its not clear why they havent done this, but 
I do think this makes it difficult for me to conclude that, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, it would be fair and reasonable to hold Plutus responsible for all the financial 
consequences which Mr and Ms A have argued flow from Plutus failures. 
Plutus said it would pay what Id suggested in this case, but said it was more concerned 
about the consequences for it of a complaint against it being upheld. Mr and Ms A didnt 
wish to settle this complaint for anything that Plutus has been willing to offer them, so they 
have requested an ombudsmans decision in this case, which they are entitled to do. And 
although my award falls short of what they requested, I do still think that the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case is for this complaint to be upheld.
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind in this case. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Plutus Wealth Management LLP must pay Mr and Ms A the sum of 
£728.90, which it received from their existing lender, and £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman