DRN-4191090
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Wilmot Lynne & Co (Wilmott) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr H met with Wilmot in 2003 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Wilmot says that it completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances 
and objectives. It hasnt been able to provide a copy of this, however it clearly did gather 
some information about Mr Hs circumstances as the suitability letter contains this. The 
documentation from the time of sale, and the recent enquiries, show that Mr H: 
Was 49 at the time of advice. He was married with two children. 
Had recently become self-employed.
Had no knowledge, or experience, of pensions and investments. He currently had no 
savings or investments. 
He and Mrs H owned their property with an outstanding mortgage.
Had outstanding credit worth around £10,000 to £11,000
Was in good health.
In respect of Mr Hs pension provision, he had preserved benefits in a DB scheme which had 
a normal retirement date (NRD) of age 65 which would be in 2018. He had around five years 
service in the scheme. The deferred benefits statement from December 2002 shows that the 
total pension at his NRD was £3,758.17. The maximum tax-free cash Mr H could take was 
£4,003.43. 
Wilmot says it carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it found was 
cautious or similar. Wilmot hasnt been able to provide this assessment. 
In November 2003, Wilmot advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into two personal 
pension arrangements. 
The transfer value was £10,649.56 of which £1,956.99 was a guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP). In October 2003 Mr H took the benefits from the non GMP section of the new 
pension. He took tax-free cash of £4,581.39 plus an annual income of £185.66.
And in April 2012 he started another annuity with the remainder of the pension. The
remaining fund had a value of £2,845.29, and it provided tax-free cash of £711.32 an annual 
pension of £94.15.
  
The suitability report provided in November 2003 said the advantages to the transfer were: 
Transferring your pension fund to your own private plan will enable you to raise the 
lump sum you require.
This option pays you the highest possible immediate cash settlement.
You are able to control which funds your remaining pension (the protected rights) are 
invested in and consequently you will have the potential for a higher pension.
Mr H complained in 2021 to Wilmot about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said the 
nature of the guaranteed benefits he was giving up wasnt properly explained to him. He 
says his attitude to risk was low and there was no pressing need for him to transfer, he was 
not in difficult financial circumstances. He felt the transfer was clearly unsuitable for him. 
Wilmot didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint as it thought the advice was suitable for him and he 
was provided with full information about it. And it said that Mr Hs complaint hadnt been 
brought in time as it has been brought too late. 
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. An Investigator firstly considered 
whether we could consider this complaint. She thought that the complaint had been brought 
in time as Mr H wouldnt, or shouldnt, have been aware that he had cause to complain any 
earlier than he did. 
Wilmot didnt agree and this complaint was passed to me initially to consider the jurisdiction 
of it. Ive issued a decision saying that the complaint was brought in time and so is within the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An Investigator has also upheld the complaint and required Wilmot to pay compensation. 
She thought that the transfer wasnt in Mr Hs best interests financially as it was likely to 
provide lower benefits than the DB scheme. And so, if Wilmot had advised Mr H properly its 
likely he would have seen this and not transferred. 
Wilmot disagreed, saying that:
The transfer was suitable for Mr H as he had an immediate need for cash to reduce 
his debt and pay for his sons education costs. He had no access to capital. 
He could build up further pension provision in the future. 
The rules dont say that a consumers best interests can only be served by 
maintaining an income. Mr H had other needs that outweighed this. 
Notwithstanding the potential loss of retirement income, it was reasonable to advise 
Mr H to proceed and make his own decision about the transfer. 
Mr H was given full information about the transfer and in particular he was told that 
his pension would likely be lower at retirement. He was told about the benefits he 
was giving up and he understood this
The purpose of the advice was to take as little risk as possible. 
The compensation makes no allowance for the benefits that Mr H gained from the 
transaction such as repaying his debts. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Wilmot's actions here.
COB 5.3.29A(4):
The regulator expected a prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to 
make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved 
and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up. 
At least one illustration for the personal pension/section-32 plan had to be on a similar basis 
to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
A reason why letter or equivalent now had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation. It should:
explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme. and
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability, in a similar way to the LAUTRO/FIMBRA guidance.
Importantly it also said for the first time that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook.
Financial viability 
Wilmot carried out a transfer value analysis (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). It hasnt provided a copy of the analysis it did 
but there is information about the calculation in the suitability report. 
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice about pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was 10.5% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 7.3% per year for 15 
years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr H's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Whilst the evidence from the time of sale is not complete, its clear that that Mr H was a 
lower risk investor. To achieve an average return of over 10% each year Mr H would have 
needed to take investment risks significantly in excess of those its agreed he was likely to 
want to take. This growth rate is higher than the regulators highest projection rate. 
There would be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was 10.5%, I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with his attitude to risk.
And this was recognised at the point of sale. The disadvantages section of the suitability 
letter said, amongst other things, that You will in all probability receive a substantially lower 
pension on retirement from your protected rights fund than if you had left your benefits with 
your existing scheme.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Wilmot has 
said that Mr H required flexibility and an immediate lump sum. This may mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
The main aim of the advice was so that Mr H could release some capital from his pension 
plan. This was to repay some debts and fund his sons education. Wilmot has said that this 
was more important to Mr H than his retirement planning as he had a need to pay these. 
I dont agree with this. The primary consideration when giving advice on pension 
arrangements should be how this advice will affect the persons retirement provision. 
As a minimum when giving this kind of advice I would expect to have seen information about 
what pension provision they had, when they expected to retire and what income or 
expenditure they would need. Other than the DB scheme information this doesnt seem to 
have been obtained. I think this is a significant failing on the part of Wilmot and I cant see 
how Mr H could have considered his options properly without this information. 
Its clear that Mr H did want some funds. But the amounts of debt that he wanted to repay, 
and his sons educations costs, seem to be relatively modest. And I would have expected 
Mr H to have been able to fund these in other ways in the normal run of things. And the 
amount of cash he could release wouldnt enable him to fully pay these amounts in any 
event. In fact, the letter send to Mr H on 28 February 2003 says that he and Mrs H could increase their mortgage or take another loan. Which I think confirms this this would be the 
right way to do this. 
Given all of these factors I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr H had a well-defined or 
urgent need to raise cash. And he would have been better looking at raising this elsewhere. 
As I said above, the deferred benefits statement from December 2002 shows that the total 
pension at his NRD was £3,758.17 a year. The maximum tax-free cash Mr H could take was 
£4,003.43. And Ive assumed that Mr H would also receive the state pension. Its not clear if 
this would have fully met his retirement income needs, whatever these were, and Ive no 
information about what his wife would have received. 
But Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr H could have better met his needs by 
remaining in the DB scheme until the state pension became payable and he could take the 
benefits from this plan at its NRD. 
Overall, I dont think Mr H required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr H had a strong need for a variable income throughout his 
retirement. 
So, I dont think the DB transfer was suitable for Mr H due to the flexibility and cash lump 
sum it offered him. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Death benefits were mentioned in the 
suitability letter, but I dont think improving on Mr Hs provision on death was a main aim for 
him. 
That said, and for completeness, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate death benefits may 
have been important to him, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr H 
about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think Wilmot explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to them if Mr H predeceased them. I dont think Wilmot 
made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, Wilmot should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Wilmot shouldve instead explored life insurance. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Hs desire for control and flexibility with his pension benefits was overstated. Mr H 
was not an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was 
a genuine objective for Mr H  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
As far as I am aware the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such 
that Mr H should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. 
Suitability of investments
Wilmot recommended that Mr H invest in funds that had an investment risk. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr H should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and the access to funds on offer through a personal 
pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. 
But Wilmot wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
I appreciate that the information from the time of sale does point out some of the 
disadvantages and some of the accompanying information is generally negative about the 
transfer. But I dont agree that Wilmot should have been simply providing this information 
and then transacting what it thought was Mr Hs decision. It was the professional adviser 
here, and it should have acted in his best interests, rather than letting him decide for himself. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to gain access to funds that he could have got elsewhere. 
So, I think Wilmot shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Wilmot's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Wilmots advice. I say this because Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority 
of Mr Hs retirement provision. So, if Wilmot had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr Hs want for funds was so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he was paying for, didnt think 
it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Wilmot had explained that Mr H could meet 
all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
In light of the above, I think Wilmot should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Given that the tax-free cash released was relatively modest, and its not clear if Mr H was 
able to use this to repay his debts. As is usual I dont think the compensation should 
explicitly account for this. 
Wilmot must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13  
set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, although Mr H is retired, and he took the benefits from the personal pension in 
stages, and at different times from the DB schemes NRD. I dont think he would have been 
able to do this if he had not transferred the DB scheme away. So, compensation should be 
based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Wilmot should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Wilmots offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Wilmot may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr Hs 
would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Wilmot Lynne & Co to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Wilmot Lynne & Co pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Wilmot Lynne & Co.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman