DRN-3240706
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Additions account in 1999.
Mr D says that the Additions account was mis-sold because he was led to believe he needed 
to agree to the account to take out a loan. Mr D says he took out a loan at the same time 
that he upgraded his account to an Additions account. 
Mr D also says that he never used the insurance products provided by the account 
throughout the time he had the account. And he says that the account cant have been sold 
for overdraft usage.
Account history
Mr Ds account history is as follows:
opened as a fee-free account in August 1991
an overdraft was added to the account in May 1998
changed to a fee-paying Additions account in October 1999
changed to a fee-paying Additions Plus account in January 2005
changed to a fee-paying Premier Life account in October 2010
Migrated to a fee-free account that included fee-paying Home, Tech and Travel Plus 
Packs in November 2015
Mr D has confirmed hes only complaining about the sale of the Additions account sold in 
1999.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Additions 
account had been mis-sold. Mr D disagreed and asked for the complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I should also explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the 
case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on 
everything that is available. And having weighed everything up, I dont think that the 
Additions account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, I note that Mr D says that he didnt use the insurance benefits on the Additions 
account, and he says it was a waste of money. However, the fact he didnt claim on an 
insurance benefit, or that he thinks it was poor value for money, doesnt mean that the 
account was mis-sold or that Barclays was wrong to have sold it to him when it did. Instead, 
for me to conclude that Barclays mis-sold the account, I would need to be satisfied that its 
likely Barclays did something wrong when it sold the Additions account to Mr D.
Mr D says that he was led to believe he had to take out the Additions account to obtain a 
loan. He says he took out a loan at the same time the account was sold to him. However, 
Barclays has provided Mr Ds product history and Mr D didnt apply for a loan when his 
account was upgraded to an Additions account  as he recalls. Nor did Mr D apply for a loan 
in the first few years he held the account. Indeed, the first time I can see that Mr D applied 
for a loan was in 2002  so around three years after the upgrade of his account took place. 
As such, Im not persuaded by Mr Ds testimony that he agreed to the Additions account 
because he was led to believe that he had to have it to obtain a loan. 
Prior to the upgrade to Additions, Mr Ds account was fee-free and included an overdraft. So 
based on what I have seen, I think that Mr D agreed to the Additions account knowing that it 
was optional and that fee-free alternatives were generally available to him if he didnt want a 
fee-paying account.
From everything I have seen, I think the account was sold on a non-advised basis. I say this 
as there is nothing to suggest that Barclays assessed Mr Ds insurance needs during the 
sale or that it recommended the Additions account because it met Mr Ds specific insurance 
needs. So, as the account was sold without a personalised recommendation, this means that 
Barclays was not obliged to check if the account was right for Mr Ds circumstances. But 
Barclays was required to provide Mr D with important information about the account so he 
could decide this for himself.
Mr D has repeatedly said that the Additions account cost £11.50. But when the account was 
sold to him in October 1999, the Additions account cost £6 per month. I understand that the 
fee was later increased. 
The main benefit of having the account at the time, was that it provided an automatic 
overdraft facility (although its now not clear how much that was), which was interest free on 
the first £100 of the overdraft facility. Another feature of the Additions account was that it 
charged a lower rate of interest (compared to fee-free accounts) on balances overdrawn by 
more than £100  up to the agreed limit. In addition to this benefit, having the Additions 
account also meant the account holder avoided having to pay a monthly £5 overdraft usage 
fee, that was applied to fee-free accounts  which I can see Mr D was regularly being 
charged before he upgraded to the Additions account. 
So by agreeing to the Additions account, it essentially worked out slightly cheaper for 
someone who was regularly using an overdraft each month, than if they continued with a 
standard fee-free account. And looking at the account ledgers that Barclays has provided, I 
can see that Mr D was regularly using his overdraft each month before (and after) he 
upgraded to the Additions account. 
Although there is little evidence available from the time, I think the overdraft saving was likely 
explained to Mr D  being the main benefit of the account at the time. And given Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time, I think it was likely the reason why Mr D agreed to the Additions 
account  rather than because he thought he had no choice but to agree to the upgrade to 
obtain a loan. And as the account was sold as a package, Mr D couldnt pick and choose 
what it came with. So even if Barclays had given Mr D more information about the account 
and the insurance benefits, I dont think he wouldve been put off from upgrading to it, given 
his circumstances at the time. 
So overall, I dont think the Additions account was mis-sold.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Additions account was mis-sold. I 
therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman