DRN-2605457
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the settlement offered to him by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc in
respect of his landlord insurance claim for damage to his let property.  
What happened
In November 2019, the police had to break into Mr Ls let property to try to arrest the tenant.
However the tenant had left. Mr L discovered the property to be in a very poor state, there
was damage in every room, including the door broken into by the police. He made a claim to
RSA who initially rejected it on the basis that the damage was wear and tear over time.
However it reviewed the claim and said that some of the damage was malicious or
accidental damage. But, on the basis that it couldnt say all the damage happened at the
same time, it considered there were five separate claims  the four rooms affected and the
back door. It proposed to deduct a £250 excess for each claim. It wouldnt accept liability for
the rest of the damage as it still considered it to be wear and tear or general maintenance
and redecoration.
Mr L also made a claim for loss of rent as it was three months before he could get a new
tenant in. RSA declined this claim as it said the property wasnt uninhabitable and that there
was no tenancy agreement on place at the time of the claim. Mr L also complained that RSA
had sent information to a wrong address, and this was a data breach, and of delays in
dealing with his claim.
RSA apologised for the data breach and assured Mr L it hadnt given out any confidential
information. It also agreed that it had delayed in processing his claim, and shouldnt have
declined it at first instance. It paid him £350 as the overall service fell below what it would
expect.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that some of the damage was malicious and some 
accidental. I thought it fair to apply just two excesses, one for the damage to the back door 
and the other for the rest of the damage. I set out the issues I thought RSA should pay for. I 
didnt make any finding that RSA should pay loss of rent.
Mr L disagreed that the damage (demolition) of the back door and frame wasnt the fault of 
the tenant. The police were there because of the tenant and the damage caused was 
because of the tenant. He said the fact there was no back door or frame rendered the house 
totally uninhabitable. He believes RSA should pay his loss of rent.
RSA accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
There are a large number of photographs setting out the damage both before and after the
repairs got under way. I have to say that for the large part they show that the property was
very poorly maintained, it was very dirty. The carpets were stained and marked and the
grouting in the kitchen and bathroom crumbling. There was mould growth in places. Its also
evident from the after photos that the property was substantially renovated, including a new
bathroom, kitchen and shower, and new carpets and flooring and tiling. I do think, apart from
the items accepted as accidental/malicious damage, that the damage was due to wear and
tear, lack of maintenance or misuse by the tenant or gradual deterioration. None of these are
covered under the policy.
The following items were accepted by RSA as damaged, although as far as I can see it
hasnt sought to distinguish accidental or malicious damage:
Bathroom - damaged bath panel; gouged vinyl floor finish; scoring to the rim of the bath
(associated costs to complete these works)
Bedroom 1 - door off hinges with damaged door frame.
Lounge - 2 broken wall light fittings; damaged wall paper/decor
Kitchen/Utility - Aertex ceiling minor part repair; 3 base unit doors missing; 1 removed
but present. Boiler boxing not present; door to utility not present.
Door- Boarded UPVC rear entrance door and frame, associated repairs to the frame and
plasterwork, to include decor if required.
In addition I think the blinds should be covered  they all look to me as if they were
deliberately torn, rather than suffering from wear and tear.
The issues is how many excesses is it fair to apply. With the exception of the damage to the
door all the above damage looks to me as though it was malicious. I dont think its for Mr L
to show all the malicious damage happened at the same time. Our approach is that where
theres extensive malicious damage by a tenant and theres no clear evidence to show that
the damage happened at different times, its fair only to apply one excess. I understand the
tenant was under threat of eviction and was in arrears with his rent. He was also being
pursued by the police. It appears likely to me that the malicious damage all happened
around about the same time.
Where there are different claims, for accidental and malicious damage, I think its fair to
apply one excess to each type of claim. I can see that the damage to the back door occurred
when the police broke in, and this was accepted as accidental damage - theres no separate
policy cover for this. As the rest of the damage hasnt been distinguished I think it would be
fair to apply two excesses, one for the damage caused by the police and the other for the
rest of the damage.
Mr L additionally claims loss of rent. This is payable under the policy If the insured property
is made uninhabitable by any insured cause. RSA says the property wasnt uninhabitable as
it still had running water and electricity. The word uninhabitable isnt defined in the policy
but we would usually say this is where there are no cooking or washing facilities or the
property is unsafe to live in. While I appreciate that, with extensive refurbishment taking
place, a tenant wouldnt have been able to move in, the policy term doesnt mean RSA is
liable to pay loss of rent for the period of repairs as it only comes into effect if the property is
uninhabitable because of an insured cause. I dont think that was the case here.
With regard to the apparent data breach, RSA admitted sending correspondence to the
wrong address but has assured Mr L that it didnt send any confidential information. I think
that was a reasonable response. If Mr L is still concerned about it, he should take it up with
the Information Commissioners Office.Ive considered the compensation paid. RSA clearly shouldnt have rejected the claim
initially. I also understand it didnt make it clear to Mr L that he could go ahead with the
repairs. But I think the payment of £350 was reasonable tor the inconvenience caused.
So overall I think that RSA should pay Mr Ls claim for damage in respect of the areas I have
listed above, and only apply two excesses. I believe Mr L has submitted invoices for this
damage. RSA should also add simple interest* at 8% per year on any payments it makes
from the dates Mr L paid those invoices until the date it pays them.  
I understand Mr Ls points and dont disagree that the tenant was indirectly responsible for 
the damage to the back door. But it cant come under malicious damage as the tenant didnt 
damage the door. As Ive said theres no special cover in the policy for this so its reasonable 
to accept it as accidental damage. So my decision stands regarding the payment of 
excesses.
As for the damage to the back door rendering the property uninhabitable, it does not. Ive set 
out in my provisional findings above what we regard as uninhabitable. This doesnt mean 
unlettable or difficult to rent out. The policy doesnt cover that. 
Ive noted that RSA caused delay but Mr L was able to relet his property within three months 
and it did have extensive renovations carried out, a lot of which werent payable under the 
policy. I still think that RSA has addressed the issue of its delays reasonably by its payment 
of £350.
My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to settle Mr Ls 
claim for damage in respect of the items Ive listed above (including the blinds) and to add 
simple interest* at 8% on any cash payments from the date Mr L paid the invoices until the 
date it reimburses him. It must only deduct a maximum of two excesses.
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax
from any interest paid. Should Mr L request it, RSA should provide him with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman