DRN-2332916
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as C complains that HCC International Insurance Company Plc 
(HCC) hasnt paid the full value of a claim made against its Trade Credit insurance policy.
Mr C, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf. C is represented in bringing 
this complaint but for ease of reading Ill refer only to C.
What happened
In June 2018, C renewed its Trade Credit insurance policy with HCC, which provided cover 
for debt owed to them by their customers on a 90% indemnity basis. C carried out work for a 
customer, who I will refer to as D. Cs invoices to D were funded through a factoring 
arrangement with a finance company which Ill refer to as S. As a result, S were named as 
the Loss Payee on the insurance policy so any payment under the policy would be made to 
it, rather than to C.
In March 2019, D went into administration following a fire at its premises and ultimately 
Insolvency Practitioners were appointed. C made a claim to HCC for its losses, which it has 
said are in excess of £200,000. In July 2019, HCC made a payment of just under £79,000 to 
S in respect of the claim. It explained that it had reached this figure using the debt value 
recorded on the Insolvency Practitioners report, which was £105,000. HCC explained that it 
had deducted VAT and awarded £79,000 on the basis of 90% indemnity.
S passed the outstanding invoices that were not repaid back to C and took steps to recover 
the funds. S has confirmed that it no longer has any interest in the insurance claim.
C didnt agree with the settlement figure and said that the balance owed to it by D was much 
higher. It explained that, due to the fire, Ds accounting records had been destroyed and the 
most recent figure was from several months before. So, it said, as the Insolvency 
Practitioner hadnt been able to verify the debt, the figure used in the Insolvency 
Practitioners report was out of date. C provided HCC with invoices and worksheets to 
evidence the work it had carried out for D, some of which were initially unsigned and later 
replaced with signed copies.
C complained to HCC about the value of the payment and explained that, as a result, C had 
to enter into a voluntary arrangement with its creditors. HCC didnt think the amount should 
be increased. It said that if C thought the amount should be higher, this should be submitted 
to the Insolvency Practitioner to consider. It said that it would reconsider the claim on receipt 
of confirmation from the Insolvency Practitioner that the debt owed to D was higher than the 
£105,000 confirmed in its report.
C didnt agree with HCCs response and referred the matter to this service. It said that the 
Insolvency Practitioners role isnt to verify the debt and, as such, it cant compel it to 
increase the recorded debt amount. But it has provided evidence to show that the Insolvency 
Practitioner has made a record of the additional debt. And it has now suggested that a 
sensible solution would be to arrange for an independent review of the invoices and 
worksheets.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In short, she 
didnt think HCC had made an error in relying on the debt recorded by the Insolvency 
Practitioner and didnt think HCC needed to increase the payment. C didnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the challenging circumstances that have arisen as a result of this 
claim. But for the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
HCC has confirmed that it would generally use the debt figures recorded by an Insolvency 
Practitioner to verify the value of the claim. The circumstances of this claim are unusual as 
the fire that occurred at Ds premises, shortly before it went into administration, meant that 
much of the paperwork was destroyed. And the Insolvency Practitioner has commented that 
the director of D wasnt forthcoming and so establishing the value of outstanding debt was 
challenging. 
While C has said that the accounts HCC relied on to pay the claim were from several months 
before, they were the most accurate way of verifying the amount of the debt at the time. And 
while C did submit further evidence by way of worksheets and invoices to evidence the 
additional balance it claimed was owed to it, the documents that were originally received by 
HCC were unsigned. While I can appreciate that this was due to the factoring arrangements 
made through S, it meant that HCC had no way to verify the accuracy of those documents. 
So I dont think HCC made an error in basing its settlement on the amount that was verified 
as being owed by the Insolvency Practitioner.
C did go on to submit a significant amount of further information in order to evidence that the 
amount owed to it by D was more than £105,000. HCC reviewed the additional information 
as I would have expected it to and attempted to reconcile the invoices with the amount the 
Insolvency Practitioner had used in their report. But, unfortunately, HCC wasnt able to 
confirm whether these invoices had been included in the balance provided by the Insolvency 
Practitioner.
HCC suggested that C submit the documents to the Insolvency Practitioner to allow it to 
consider whether these amounts should be recognised in the value of the debt. And it 
confirmed that if the invoices were admitted into the administration then it would be prepared 
to revisit the claim. However, C has said that the Insolvency Practitioner is unable to verify 
the outstanding debt. While I realise this has caused a great deal of frustration for C, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for HCC to suggest this option.
Ultimately it is for C to evidence its claim and I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that 
the amount at which HCC settled the claim was incorrect. HCC has needed to take a pragmatic approach to verifying the claim in this situation, given the unique circumstances, 
and I dont think it acted unreasonably in doing so.
While C has said that a forensic accountant should be employed to verify the claim, I am not 
persuaded that it is necessary for HCC to arrange this type of review. I say that because 
HCC has already carried out its own review and attempted to reconcile the invoices from C 
with the amount quoted on the Insolvency Practitioners report. There is no reason to believe 
that a forensic accountant would be more successful. HCC has based its settlement on the 
amount that the Insolvency Practitioner has confirmed in its report  and I am satisfied that, 
in the circumstances, that was a fair basis for the claim to be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman