DRN-1686152
 
complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.
background
Lloyds doesnt know exactly when the PPI was sold so they have assumed it was taken at 
the same time as the credit card was taken out, which was in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened, at the least, over 20 years ago, so 
Im not surprised that neither Lloyds nor Mr B has been able to provide any of the specific 
sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I 
think most likely happened. 
Ive seen a credit card statement from 28 January 2000 which shows that Mr B was paying 
for PAYMENTS INSURANCE  PREMIUM. So I think its more likely that Mr B would have 
been provided with these statements and would have been aware he was paying for this 
policy. So if Mr B hadnt agreed to the PPI then I think his statements would have put him on 
notice he was paying for something he hadnt agreed to and he would have, most likely, 
raised this as an issue with Lloyds many years before he eventually chose to do.     
The same statement shows there was an existing credit balance on the card. So it seems 
the card was sold prior to 2000. Consequently, its more likely that the PPI was sold prior to 
2000 as well. Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr B aware the 
PPI was optional or failed to secure his agreement to take it out. And in any event, 
considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be 
able to uphold the complaint on these points. So having considered all the submissions I 
have received in this case, I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr B aware that 
the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that 
now, many years later. Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because Mr B was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. I say that whilst noting that Mr B told us he had a 
pre-existing medical condition. Mr B also told us that it had never caused him a single day off 
work, made no difference to his day to day life and wasnt expected to get worse. So, I dont 
think Mr B would have expected this to be the reason he would make a claim under the 
policy most likely. So, I dont think this made the policy unsuitable. 
And Mr B seems to have had a need for the cover. Whilst Mr B told us he had good sick pay 
initially, but that he had no other means to rely on such that he may have had to rely on his 
family to help him repay his credit card. This PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mr Bs 
monthly balance for up to 12 months in the event he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. 
So, as this would have paid out in addition to his sick pay arrangements, and would have 
reduced his reliance on any help his family or friends may have been able to provide, I think 
the policy would have been useful to Mr B if something went wrong. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman