DRN-3439805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Saga Services Limited mis-sold their personal private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2016, Mr and Mrs M took out a personal private medical insurance policy 
through Saga. The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call A. Mr and Mrs M chose to 
take out cover on a moratorium basis. This meant that A wouldnt cover any medical 
conditions a policyholder had had in the three years before the policy started. But following 
two years of policy cover; if a policyholders existing condition had been trouble-free for a 
period of two consecutive years, they could claim for that condition,
Subsequently, in December 2020, Mr M made a claim on the policy for knee surgery. 
However, A turned down the claim. It said Mr M had had a knee operation in the three years 
before the policy began. And he hadnt met the policy definition of trouble-free for two 
consecutive years. So it said the claim was caught by the moratorium and wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs M felt that Saga hadnt fully explained to them how the moratorium worked. They 
said that Saga hadnt sent them the full policy terms and conditions or given them enough 
information about the moratorium. Mr M said that if hed known about the trouble-free 
requirement in the policy, he wouldnt have sought medical advice or treatment for his knee 
condition during the first two years of the policy. Therefore, he considered that A wouldve 
covered the claim for the surgery.
Saga didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs M. It said that Mr and Mrs M 
had been made aware of the way that moratorium cover worked at the point of sale. And it 
said that the relevant policy handbook and paperwork had been sent to Mr and Mrs M after 
the policy had been taken out. It also said that Mr M had previously confirmed that hed 
received the policy handbook. It added that the renewal paperwork made it clear that if Mr 
and Mrs M required a copy of the policy terms, these were available on request. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Sagas responses to their complaint and they asked us to 
look into it.
Our investigator didnt think that this complaint should be upheld. While Saga could no 
longer provide copies of call recordings from the time of sale, she considered Sagas own 
notes of whatd happened at the point of sale. And she felt these notes suggested that Mr 
and Mrs M had been made aware of how moratorium cover would work. She considered that 
the initial membership statement sent by Saga made it clear that Mr and Mrs Ms policy had 
been provided on a moratorium basis. 
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs M didnt dispute receiving a membership statement 
following the policy sale.  This pack included details of the relevant cooling-off period; stated 
that the policy handbook was enclosed and a declaration that a policyholder had read a 
leaflet regarding Underwriting Methods and Chronic Conditions which explained how the 
moratorium worked. She felt that if Mr and Mrs M hadnt received copies of these 
documents, theyd had the chance to contact Saga to request them. She felt too that Mr and 
Mrs M had been reminded at renewal in 2017, 2019 and 2020 of the ability to request a copy 
of the policy booklet and that at the 2018 renewal, the documentation suggested a new 
booklet had been enclosed. So she concluded that Saga had made Mr and Mrs M aware at 
each renewal that they could obtain a new copy of the policy terms. And she was satisfied 
that Saga had given them enough clear information so they could decide if the policy met 
their needs.
Finally, the investigator wasnt persuaded that even if Mr M had stopped receiving medical 
advice or treatment for his knee, that this wouldve led to him being able to make a 
successful claim on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said that theyd had to pay out around £5000 in premiums, 
together with the cost of the surgery. Saga had confirmed that it didnt have a system which 
could confirm a policy booklet had been sent with the welcome pack. If Mr M had known 
about the trouble-free period, it wouldve been easy for him to stop medication for two years 
and then claim. They felt it was clear that Saga never sent them the policy terms  either at 
inception or at each renewal.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I dont think that Saga has 
treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that whilst Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and 
sent us. Within my decision though, I havent commented on each point theyve made and 
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Saga didnt advise Mr and Mrs M to take out their private medical insurance policy. This 
means it didnt need to make sure that it was suitable for them. But it did need to give them 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that Mr and Mrs M 
could decide if it was right for them.
Mr and Mrs M say that Saga didnt explain the policy moratorium fully when they took out the 
policy and neither did it send them the relevant policy terms. So Ill explore whether I think 
Saga did give Mr and Mrs M clear, fair and not misleading information about the cover to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether or not to take it out.
The policy sale
Both sides agree that Mr and Mrs M took out their policy over the phone. Mr and Mrs M say 
that Mr M had understood that he couldnt claim for a pre-existing condition within two years 
of the policy start date, but he didnt know about the trouble-free period. Saga says that the 
moratorium was properly explained. As the investigator explained, unfortunately, Saga told 
us that it no longer has copies of the calls between its call handler and Mr and Mrs M on 13 
and 14 October 2016. This means I cant listen to exactly what was said and discussed. And 
so I need to consider all of the evidence I do have to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances.Saga has provided its own notes following its review of the sales call. So Ive looked at these 
very carefully. It seems that during the first call, Mr M told the call handler that hed 
undergone knee surgery on the NHS. The call handler said that any claims related to Mr Ms 
knee would be excluded, but that he could still get a quote. The notes say that the call 
handler explained full medical underwriting and moratorium cover and that in respect of 
moratorium underwriting, cover is excluded for any conditions a policyholder has had in the 
last three years. The notes go on to record the following:
The agent explains that in relation to the knee condition, if he were to remain free from 
advice, medication of treatment, including over the counter drugs for any pre-existing 
condition for at least 2 years after cover starts the customer may be able to claim for 
treatment of those conditions. The agent adds that in the future it does mean that it could be 
covered again after the customers had his treatment and had a 2 year trouble free period.
The notes suggest that the call handler asked Mr M to confirm that hed understood that 
moratorium underwriting excluded any pre-existing conditions and that he was happy to be 
quoted on a moratorium basis. Sagas notes indicate that Mr M confirmed he wished to do 
so. They continue:
The agent gives recap and reiterates that the customers knee wouldnt be covered at the 
moment but once the customer has had a 2 year trouble free period it will be covered under 
the policy, that means no treatment, advice, no physio, once the customer has had 2 years 
clear it would be eligible under the policy again.
Sagas notes say that the first call concluded by the call handler speaking to Mrs M and 
explaining how the moratorium and trouble-free period would apply to Mr Ms knee.
On the following day, the call handler called Mr M back. Sagas internal notes record the 
following, amongst other things:
Customer says hes been looking at the policy book and would like to see that in writing 
rather than onlineThe customer decides to go ahead and the agent confirms that the 
handbook will go out with the paperwork. Mori (moratorium) script including trouble free 
period terms are read prior to conversion and the customer and wife both confirm they 
understand and are happy to proceed.
Ive thought carefully about all of the available evidence and Ive taken into account Mr and 
Mrs Ms version of events. Sagas notes arent a contemporaneous record of what 
happened. But they are a first-hand record written by someone who did have the chance to 
listen to the call. And so Ive placed significant weight on the notes, as I think theyre likely to 
be an accurate summary of what was discussed during the sales call. Mr M acknowledges 
that he did discuss his knee with the call handler, so I think its possible that given the time 
thats passed, his memory has faded about exactly what was discussed. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen though, I find it most likely that Sagas call handler did 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information about how the moratorium period and 
trouble-free period worked to both Mr and Mrs M and that they pointed out how this type of 
cover would affect Mr Ms knee. Id add too that it appears that following the first call, Mr M 
had the chance to look online at the policy book. This appears to indicate that he may have 
been in a position to familiarise himself with moratorium underwriting ahead of the second 
call and agreeing to take out the policy.
The policy documentation
The relevant regulators rules require Saga to provide policyholders with policy information in good time following the sale of the insurance. So I need to be satisfied that Saga met this 
obligation.
Mr and Mrs M say that Saga never sent them a copy of the policy handbook, or information 
about the moratorium, although they accept they did receive a membership statement. Saga 
has provided us with a cover sheet of the information which it says wouldve been included 
with Mr and Mrs Ms initial membership statement as part of a welcome membership pack  
including a policy handbook (the terms and conditions) and a leaflet called Underwriting 
Methods and Chronic Conditions. Both of these documents included information about how 
the moratorium period worked and what A defined as a trouble-free period.
Saga accepts that it cant demonstrate that these documents were enclosed with the 
membership statement and welcome pack which were sent to Mr and Mrs M on 15 October 
2016. Ive seen a copy of the membership statement and I can see that it states that a 
membership pack is enclosed.  The membership statement shows that both Mr and Mrs M 
had taken moratorium underwriting terms. It included a box which stated that Mr and Mrs M 
needed to check the policy was suitable for their needs. And the membership statement also 
includes a declaration. I think the following limbs of the declaration are relevant:
You have read the information about pre-existing conditions and underwriting terms 
in the Underwriting Methods and Chronic Conditions leaflet, which explains how the 
Moratorium works and how it differs from the Full Medical History Assessment, and 
have disclosed all the information we have asked you to provide.
You confirm that you have opted not to have your medical history assessed and 
understand that any pre-existing medical conditions are subject to the terms of the 
Moratorium as explained in the 'Underwriting Methods and Chronic Conditions' 
leaflet.
Ive also noted that the membership statement says: 
You should keep a copy of all information you supply to us in respect of this insurance. A 
copy of the Membership Handbook is enclosed.
As the investigator explained, the membership statement gave Mr and Mrs M a 14-day 
cooling-off period so that they could cancel the policy if it didnt meet their needs. Given the 
statement says the handbook was enclosed, it seems to me that if Mr and Mrs M hadnt 
received a copy of the terms with the paperwork, they ought to have prompted to realise it 
was missing. But even if the handbook or underwriting leaflet werent enclosed with the 
membership statement, I think Mr and Mrs M had the chance to contact Saga during the 14-
day period to chase-up this information. However, theres no indication that they did so.
And Ive looked carefully at the renewal information which was sent to Mr and Mrs M each 
year. I can see that in 2017, 2019 and 2020, Saga stated that a copy of the policy booklet 
was available on request. If Mr and Mrs M didnt have the policy at each renewal, I think this 
was clear enough to prompt them to understand that they were entitled to ask for a copy. I 
note too that in 2018, the renewal letter says that Saga had enclosed a new copy of the 
policy booklet with the documentation. Again, if Mr and Mrs M hadnt received a copy of that 
handbook with their renewal letter, Id have expected them to raise this with Saga.
I appreciate Mr M says he wouldve acted differently had he known about the trouble-free 
period. However, overall, based on all Ive seen, I think Saga did give Mr and Mrs M enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the moratorium; trouble-free period and the 
cover provided policy to allow them to decide whether or not it met their needs. So I dont 
agree that Saga mis-sold them this policy. And Im not telling it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman