DRN-3690508
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Tesco Personal Finance PLC hasnt refunded an amount that he 
paid on his credit card for a holiday.
What happened
Mr S bought a holiday through a travel agent  who I shall refer to as F  to take place in 
April 2020. The holiday cost around £2,100. He paid for the holiday on his Tesco credit card.
In March 2020 Mr S wrote to Tesco to say his holiday had been cancelled, but hed only 
received a partial refund of what he paid and said he was still owed £482.89. And he asked 
Tesco to refund this. He also completed an online dispute form.
In May 2020 Tesco tried to call Mr S, but it was unable to contact him. So it wrote to him to 
ask him to call back. As Tesco didnt hear back from Mr S it wrote to him again to say the 
claim was closed. In September 2020 Mr S wrote to Tesco to complain about the outcome of 
the claim. Tesco then called Mr S and explained it needed to understand why hed only 
received a partial refund, the terms and conditions of the contract, confirmation that the 
holiday was cancelled and who cancelled it and any correspondence with F. It also sent 
Mr S a letter saying the same.
Mr S later wrote to Tesco to complain hed still not received a refund. Tesco responded 
reiterating it needed further information. Mr S then referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he thought it was fair for Tesco to have 
asked for some further information. Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said he had a 
hearing disability and he didnt think this had been taken into consideration.
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr S is complaining about the way Tesco handled a dispute over a payment he made to F 
for a holiday rental. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit 
card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (Section 75). I would expect the card provider to 
consider both avenues. Ill consider both avenues separately.
Chargeback 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the relevant card scheme.
In this case, there are two potential chargeback avenues Tesco could have looked to pursue 
a chargeback  credit not received or services not provided. Tesco didnt need to obtain 
all the terms and conditions, booking conditions to pursue a chargeback, as all it needed 
was a sufficient enough explanation to show:
Mr S had taken steps to resolve the matter with F;
A reasonable description of the services F was to provide;
A reasonable explanation of why F wont provide the service or why Mr S was entitled to 
a refund.
But it is a criterion to process a chargeback that Mr S had to have looked to resolve the 
matter with F first. Tesco also says it needed to understand who cancelled the holiday and 
why Mr S only received a partial refund. 
Ive looked at the information Mr S gave in his initial letter and completed dispute form. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco to say it needed more information to be able to 
process the chargeback. That said, I think it could have done more to request this. I can see 
it wrote to Mr S in June 2020 saying it needed to speak to him, but I think it should have 
been clearer with why. It said:
We've been trying to get in touch with you to discuss your account. Please give us a call on 
the number at the top of this letter at your earliest opportunity.
I dont think this is clear that it was looking to speak to Mr S about his chargeback claim and 
I think it should have explained this in this letter. Mr S suffers from a hearing disability, so I 
can understand why he didnt call Tesco after receiving this letter. But I need to think about 
whether Mr S has lost out as a result of this. I dont think he has. While the letter in June 
2020 wasnt clear enough, I can see that it did speak to Mr S in September 2020 and wrote 
to him on two further occasions requesting this information, but Mr S didnt respond to these 
letters. So I think, even if Tesco had been clearer in June 2020, I dont think the situation 
would be any different.
I recognise Mr S suffers from a hearing disability. But he was able to communicate in writing. 
And I think he could have reasonably provided the information Tesco needed.
Ultimately, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco to 
not process the chargeback claim in this case.
Section 75
Mr S paid for the holiday package on his Tesco credit card. Section 75 sets out that in 
certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Tesco is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
However, the crux of this complaint is whether Mr S had provided sufficient evidence to 
show that F has breached the terms of its contract with Mr S. I appreciate Mr S is unhappy 
he hasnt received a full refund, but, as I said above, I dont think the information hes 
provided is sufficient to show that F owes him a further refund. So I cant say Tesco acted 
unreasonably in not refunding the amount Mr S is claiming under Section 75.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman