DRN-3980375
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with 
her claim under her home insurance policy when it said she was underinsured.
What happened
Mrs C contacted RSA to make a claim for storm damage. RSA accepted the claim. While it 
was assessing it, RSA decided Mrs C was underinsured. 
Mrs C complained to this service. While the complaint was being looked at by our 
investigator, RSA reached a decision on the underinsurance. It agreed with Mrs C that her 
broker index-linked the sums insured. It was therefore reasonable that Mrs C thought the 
property was insured for the correct sum. RSA overturned the decision to make a 
proportionate settlement and said it would pay the full settlement figure.
Our investigator said it was fair that RSA had reviewed and then changed its view about the 
underinsurance. However, she said RSA could have kept Mrs C up to date better and 
started its investigation into the underinsurance sooner. She said RSA should pay £250 
compensation.
As Mrs C didnt agree the amount of compensation reflected the impact on her, the 
complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
RSA has already reviewed its decision and agreed with Mrs C that it wasnt fair for it to 
decide that she had underinsured her property. It accepted that her broker increased the 
sums insured each year and that this was index-linked. It said Mrs C was therefore under the 
impression that she had the correct sums insured.
Im aware the main issue now is compensation. Mrs C has said how RSA dealt with its 
concerns about underinsurance caused her a lot of inconvenience that required significant 
compensation and more than our investigator had recommended. So, Ive thought about this 
carefully.
Mrs C made a claim for storm damage. A few weeks later, RSA identified there might be an 
issue with underinsurance. About two months after the claim was first opened, RSA decided 
the property was underinsured. For several months after this, Mrs C continued to contact 
RSA both about the claim itself, as this was still in progress, and about the underinsurance. 
Mrs C explained to RSA that the insured sum was from her broker and continued to chase 
RSA to get it to change its underinsurance decision. About a year after Mrs C first made the 
claim, RSA agreed with Mrs C.
I can see this was a difficult and stressful time for Mrs C. Ive seen a range of emails Mrs C 
sent to RSA. These emails werent only about the underinsurance but also covered other 
aspects of the claim. I think a number of these emails would have needed to be sent 
regardless of the underinsurance issue, as they were clarifying other aspects of the claim.
I think it was reasonable for RSA to look at whether Mrs C was underinsured and where the 
sum insured had come from, which was the broker. However, RSA took longer to look at 
why the broker had provided the sum insured that it did and Mrs Cs role in this. I think it 
could have looked at this sooner and overturned its decision on the underinsurance and 
proportionate settlement earlier than it did. I also think it took persistence from Mrs C to 
reach this point. Im aware Mrs C has also described the impact on her health and wellbeing.
Having looked at all the evidence provided, the circumstances of what happened and this 
services approach to compensation, I think RSA should pay Mrs C £250 compensation. Im 
aware this is less than Mrs C thinks RSA should pay. However, I think this is a fair amount 
based on everything I have considered.
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mrs C £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision this complaint is upheld. I require Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mrs C £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman