DRN-2176540
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Santander UK Plc did not make a payment to an electronic wallet 
provider for an app he was trying to set up and use. 
What happened
Mr L holds a Basic Top-Up Debit Card with Santander. He tried to make a payment from his 
Santander account to an electronic wallet hed set up with the Curve app. But this didnt go 
through. Curve said this was because there was a do not honour marker showing on Mr Ls 
account when it requested the payment. 
Santander said payments can be declined because of insufficient funds in the account but 
also said that Curve was trying to request a recurring payment and recurring payments 
arent allowed from the type of account Mr L holds with Santander. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. She said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account in 
declining the payment, and had offered Mr L £65 for poor service when he had to keep 
chasing Santander for a response, which she thought was fair. 
Mr L disagreed and said one payment had gone through to his Curve app from a different 
account he holds with Santander, and he couldnt understand why another had been 
stopped. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account with Santander. I can see that 
under the Key Facts section, it says theres no overdraft facility on the account and that if 
there are insufficient funds in the account, then requested payments wont be honoured. 
It also says under Other Important Information about your account that the type of account 
Mr L holds doesnt allow recurring payments to be made from it. And we know from speaking 
to Curve that it was trying to request a recurring payment as thats its normal process once 
an initial verification payment has failed. 
Mr L has said another payment he made to his Curve app went through from a different 
Santander account, and he doesnt understand why this payment was blocked when both 
the Santander accounts were of the same type. 
Ive seen a screenshot of Mr Ls bank statement which shows a pending charge of 77p. But 
it looks as though this may have been an initial verification payment, which isnt actually 
taken from the account. And this was not requested by Curve as a recurring payment but as 
a one-off Three-Domain-Secure payment (also known as 3DS)  something Curve has 
said isnt unusual for the first time it tries to verify a new card for use with the app. 
Curve has explained that when that initial 3DS verification fails, which is what happened 
here for reasons which arent clear, Curve would then request a recurring payment from the 
card issuer. In this case, the card issuer, Santander, was unable to honour the recurring 
payment request as these arent allowed from the account Mr L holds.
So I dont think Santander has done anything wrong in not sending the requested payment 
to Mr Ls Curve wallet app. And I think its acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ls account. Ive also considered the £65 payment Santander has offered Mr L for poor 
service  and I think given the time Mr L spent pursuing his complaint and chasing 
Santander for a response, the amount offered is fair. It follows that I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman