DRN-2732556
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WF) didnt deal properly with his 
claim to recover mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  which meant the claim was 
unsuccessful. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr W signed letters of authority to allow WF to investigate whether he could 
recover any PPI hed been mis-sold.  WF submitted a claim on his behalf to a lender Ill     
call L.
L investigated and, in May 2019, wrote to Mr W rejecting his claim.  WF received a copy of 
the rejection letter in July.  The letter said L had based their decision on the information 
theyd had available.  But theyd not had all the information they wanted  and, if they got 
that, their decision may be different.
In February 2020, WF wrote to L, providing updated information and asking L to reconsider 
their rejection.  L replied in August 2020.  They said that theyd written to Mr W with their 
response to his complaint in May 2019 and advised him in that letter he could refer his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service within six months.  As that six month period 
had passed, L said they considered the matter closed.  
Mr W complained to WF that theyd not referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.  WF investigated and accepted theyd not done what they should have  although 
there was no guarantee that Mr W would have had a different outcome if they had.  They 
apologised for disadvantaging Mr W and offered him £200 compensation.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with WFs response and brought his complaint to us.  He told us he 
didnt think £200 compensation was enough to compensate him for losing the opportunity to 
make a successful claim against L.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint.  He explained that he couldnt say Mr Ws 
claim wouldve been successful if WF had done what they should have.  So he couldnt say 
WF should pay Mr W what he might have received in the claim.  But he did say Mr W had 
missed out on the opportunity to pursue his claim.  He thought £200 was reasonable 
compensation for this.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.  But I dont think WF need to do more 
than theyve already offered to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
I understand why Mr Ws frustrated.  When he asked for his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, he told us he thought his claim wouldve been successful if WF had sent 
additional information to L.
But I cant say that would have happened.  L had already rejected his claim once.  And their 
letter didnt say the extra information would have changed their decision  only that it may 
have done.  I think its just as likely that, if WF had done what they should have, Mr W 
wouldnt have received anything.  And so I cant say WF should pay Mr W the level of 
compensation hed had received if his claim had been successful.
But its right that WF should compensate Mr W for losing the chance to find that out.  WF 
have acknowledged that by offering Mr W £200 compensation.  I think that sums reasonable 
to compensate Mr W for his loss of opportunity.  So thats what Im directing WF to pay him.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about We Fight Any Claim 
Limited and directing them to pay him £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman