DRN-3711007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) and its contractors handled 
their claim under the subsidence cover on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had home insurance with UKI. In November 2018 they made a claim for 
possible subsidence after cracks were discovered at their and their neighbours properties. 
UKIs agent attended to inspect the damage and confirmed there was subsidence caused by 
some nearby trees, one of which was owned by the local authority. After some time the local 
authority wouldnt agree to removing the tree so a root barrier was put in place instead. The 
tree belonging to Mr and Mrs C was removed.
Once this mitigation work was complete repairs to the building began. During which Mr and 
Mrs C were moved to alternative accommodation for five weeks. 
Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs C had been unhappy with the communication from UKIs 
agent and the progress of the claim. They said theyd had to repeatedly chase the agent in 
order for any work to be done and the start date of the work had changed on numerous 
occasions which had been inconvenient. They made a complaint.
UKI upheld the complaint and offered £1,000 compensation to apologise for the poor service 
and delays. However Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this. They said theyd had to pay a 
£1,000 excess so this only covered that. And they said the claim had gone on for four years 
and was still not resolved, so the compensation should be greater due to the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. While she agreed UKIs agent 
had handled the claim poorly and caused delays, she thought its offer of £1,000 was fair and 
in line with this services approach.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs C asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs subsidence claim has been ongoing for around four years. And during this 
time theyve been subject to a lot of disruption at their home including being out of the 
property for a number of weeks. Subsidence claims by their nature can be disruptive. It isnt 
unusual for the claim to go on for a long time and there will often be a number of different 
contractors involved. As part of my review of this complaint I am looking at the actions of UKI 
and assessing the impact of the actions of it and its agents. But as part of this I wont 
consider the impact of a subsidence claim itself. So Ive focussed on the points of the claim 
where I think UKI and its contractors could have done more. 
Having reviewed all the information available, I agree UKI and its agents have caused a 
number of delays that could have been avoided. And have provided a poor service 
throughout the claim. In particular:
When UKIs contractor first identified the trees that needed removal, Mr and Mrs C 
werent informed that they would need to arranged removal of the one that belonged to 
them for around six months after this was identified. This delayed action being taken.
It took some time for UKIs contractor to identify the second tree that required removal 
and communication with the local authority happened more slowly than it should have 
done, which delayed matters further.
Communication with Mr and Mrs C was very poor throughout the claim but particularly 
throughout 2020 where I can see a number of calls were not returned, and months 
passed without any updates or visible action on the claim.
UKIs agent has failed to meet its estimated start date on three occasions without 
explanation or pre-warning. This has caused Mr and Mrs C inconvenience as theyve 
had to rearrange commitments in order to accommodate the changes to the schedule.
While these delays were happening Mr and Mrs C were living in their property while the 
subsidence damage worsened, which would have been very distressing. 
Once the works were scoped there was a further delay in repairs commencing due to 
difficulties in sourcing contractors and materials. While some of these issues were 
beyond UKIs control, it could have been rectified sooner. 
Based on this, I agree that UKI and its contractors have caused significant delays that could 
have been avoided. I estimate its added around an additional ten months to the length of the 
claim through these delays. I can see the subsidence claim has already been stressful for Mr 
and Mrs C and this would have caused further distress and inconvenience on top of this. 
Especially considering the amount of time theyve had to put into contacting UKIs agents to 
move the claim along. 
Considering the impact, I think £1,000 is a fair award of compensation in the circumstances 
and is in line with what I would have directed had UKI not offered anything. So while I agree 
its contractors have delivered a poor service, I think its done enough to put things right so I 
wont ask it to do anything further. 
I note Mr and Mrs C have said they would like a breakdown of how the compensation was 
calculated but this isnt something Id expect UKI to provide. It is usual for compensation to 
be awarded based on the impact of how the claim was handled overall, rather than 
attributing amounts to each individual failing.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that they feel the compensation only makes up for the excess 
theyve had to pay, so more should be offered. The payment of an excess forms part of the 
insurance contract and will be payable when a claim arises, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. This is completely separate to the consideration of a complaint and any 
compensation awards. The excess here has been correctly requested so I wouldnt consider 
that as part of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman