DRN-2794352
The complaint
Mrs N complains she was mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy by a company that has 
since been acquired by ReAssure Limited. She says she was led to believe shed be able to 
reduce her monthly premiums if she decided to reduce the sum assured.
Mrs N complained in 2017 but says she was given incorrect information. She said this error 
stopped her from surrendering the policy at the time and setting up more appropriate cover 
elsewhere. She said it also prevented her from pursuing the complaint at that time. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties. So, I dont intend to repeat it in 
detail here, save to set out the key events that led to this complaint. 
Mrs N took out a LifeStages Plan with Critical Illness Cover in 1996. She said she took out 
the policy because it offered the flexibility to increase or decrease cover in later years. She 
believed this flexibility also extended to the monthly premium.
 
Mrs N contacted ReAssure in September 2016 to enquire about amending her policy 
benefits and premiums. ReAssure confirmed that neither the benefits nor premiums could be
changed. Mrs N complained the policy had been misrepresented to her as it didnt offer the 
flexibility she believed it did. 
A complaint handler (who Ill call Mr S) considered Mrs Ns mis-sale complaint and 
concluded the policy hadnt been mis-sold because she was able to increase or decrease 
the cover to suit [her] needs under the provisions of the policy. Mrs N said she spoke to 
Mr S after receiving this letter as he hadnt specifically addressed whether she could reduce 
her premiums. She said Mr S confirmed the premium would be reduced if the sum assured 
was lowered. Because of this reassurance Mrs N didnt pursue her complaint at the time. 
In November 2019 Mrs N asked ReAssure to reduce her monthly premium to £50. She was 
disappointed when ReAssure told her only the sum assured could be reduced but that the 
premium would remain the same.
Unhappy with what she felt was contradictory advice, Mrs N complained. ReAssure was 
unable to find any record of Mrs Ns calls with Mr S, so it said it couldnt determine what was 
said. But it noted that Mr Ss letter from July 2017 correctly confirmed Mrs N could reduce 
the sum assured and made no reference to the premiums. It was therefore satisfied Mrs N 
had been given accurate information.
Unhappy with this answer, Mrs N referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said we couldnt consider if the policy had 
been mis-sold because too much time had passed since Mrs N had received a final 
response on that issue. Instead she considered if Mrs N had been given incorrect or 
misleading advice in 2017. But having considered everything she concluded Mrs N hadnt. 
The investigator felt the policy documentation was clear that only the sum assured, and not 
the premium, could be changed. She said that as no recording could be found of the 
conversation between Mrs N and Mr S, she couldnt be certain about what was said. In view 
of this the investigator said she couldnt determine that Mrs N had been misled or 
misadvised about the ability to reduce the policy premium.
Mrs N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. She said she was misled at 
the point of sale. She says she was told shed be able to reduce the sum assured to cover 
only her funeral expenses in later years, as thats all shed be able to afford. She said if 
shed been advised properly, she wouldnt have taken out the policy. Mrs N also said shed 
been misled in 2017, as she was reassured shed be able to reduce her premiums. She said 
had she been properly advised in 2017 she would have surrendered the policy.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2021 not upholding the complaint. 
I took account of Mrs Ns consistent and plausible testimony about her conversation with 
Mr S. And in the absence of any evidence to dispute her recollection, I accepted that shed 
been mistakenly reassured that shed be able to reduce her policy premiums if she chose to 
lower her sum assured. But, while I accepted that Mrs N had not always been provided with 
the clearest information about how the policy operated, I wasnt persuaded that shed 
suffered a financial loss as a result. I thought it most likely that Mrs N would still have taken 
out cover in 1996 and I wasnt persuaded shed have surrendered her policy, as cover was 
still in place, despite her ongoing complaint.
ReAssure acknowledged the provisional decision and reserved the right to comment further
should my decision change but made no further comments. Mrs N disagreed with my 
conclusions. 
Mrs N maintained that had she been given clearer information about the policy, either at the
point of sale, or when raising her complaint in 2017, she either wouldnt have taken the
policy out or wouldve surrendered it. She explained that she hadnt surrendered her policy 
to date as she feared jeopardising her complaint. She explained she was still hopeful her 
understanding of the policy would be found to be correct and shed be allowed to reduce her 
premiums. Shes also asked me to reconsider the trouble and upset shed experienced while 
pursuing this complaint.
Having considered Mrs Ns additional comments, I issued a second provisional decision on 
10 March 2021, partially upholding the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on the information we hold, Im currently minded to partially uphold this complaint. As 
this is different to the outcome I previously reached, I want to give all parties to the complaint 
an opportunity to consider my findings and comment before I reach a final decision.
Sale of policy in 1996
Mrs N has said that by taking out the policy shes paid over the market rate for her life and 
critical illness cover. Shes said had she understood that she couldnt reduce her premiums 
in the later years she wouldve sought cover elsewhere. Mrs N has also suggested the policy 
wasnt suitable for her in the long-term because it would inevitably become unaffordable 
when she reached retirement age.In the absence of anything to show the cost of comparative cover available to Mrs N in 1996, 
I cant be sure whether the policy has ended up being more expensive for her than an 
alternative policy. I also havent considered if the policy represented good value for money 
as Mrs N agreed to the terms (including cost) at the time. I have however considered 
whether the policy was suitable for Mrs N, based on the information that was available at
that time. As I explained in my provisional decision [dated 17 February 2021], while I found 
the flexibility of the policy couldve been explained more clearly, overall, I was satisfied the 
policy was suitable for her needs when it was sold.
As with other reviewable whole of life policies, the premiums are reviewed periodically and 
depend on a number of factors, including the strength of the underlying investment. As such,
it wouldnt be possible to predict from the outset what the policy would cost in years to come.
So, even if a policy becomes more expensive over time, this doesnt necessarily mean it was
mis-sold or unsuitable at the point of sale. And I wouldnt necessarily expect an adviser to 
consider the affordability of a product in 20-25 years time when making their 
recommendation. There would be too many unknowns to make an accurate assessment of
the long-term affordability. If the policy was affordable at the time of the sale, and so long as
there wasnt any foreseeable reason why the policy would become unaffordable, Id consider
the adviser acted reasonably.
As I noted in my provisional decision [dated 17 February 2021], from the available evidence 
from the time of the sale, it seems the policy met Mrs Ns needs. It offered combined life and 
critical illness cover, over an unspecified period and within her budget. I therefore considered 
the recommendation was reasonable.
While Mrs N has said she wouldve gone elsewhere for cover, shes not clearly 
demonstrated what other policy she wouldve taken out. Shes noted that standalone income 
protection policies were popular at the time. While this may have been the case, an income
protection policy wouldnt have met her specified needs at the time of the sale  namely a
lump sum payable in the event of death or diagnosis of a critical illness. So, while I 
appreciate Mrs Ns strength of feeling on this matter, Im not persuaded she wouldve turned
down the recommended cover and gone elsewhere.
But even if I were persuaded she wouldve gone elsewhere, its likely she wouldve obtained
similar cover at a comparable cost. So, after carefully weighing the evidence, I cant say
shes suffered a loss due to the way the policy benefits were described. I therefore dont
think ReAssure has to compensate her for this.
Complaint in 2017
In my provisional decision [dated 17 February 2021] I explained that, on balance, I was 
persuaded Mrs N had been reassured by an adviser (who Ill refer to as Mr S) during a 
telephone call that her premiums would go down if she opted to reduce her cover. But I 
wasnt persuaded that shed have surrendered her cover had she been correctly advised at 
the time. I noted that despite being aware of the policy limitations since 2019 shed 
continued with the policy, leading me to conclude shed also have continued with the policy 
in 2017.
In response, Mrs N has explained that shes yet to surrender the policy as she was awaiting
a resolution to her complaint. She explained she brought the complaint to our service in the
belief wed conclude she could reduce her premiums as she was originally led to believe she
could. She said she hasnt surrendered the policy because she didnt want to jeopardise her
complaint with our service. But shes said she will do so as soon as I issue my decision.
Mrs Ns explanation for why she hasnt surrendered the policy to date, even though she
wouldve been free to do so, is plausible and I have no reason to doubt it. I also accept thather intention was to reduce her premiums, as this was the reason for her contacting
ReAssure. Its clear that she cant do this with her existing policy. Mrs N has explained her
intention had always been to reduce her level of cover in later years to cover the cost of her
funeral.
On further careful reflection, I think its likely Mrs N wouldve surrendered her policy and
sought alternative cover elsewhere once it had been confirmed she couldnt reduce her
premiums. Whats unclear is when she wouldve taken this action.
Mrs N said she didnt reduce her cover in 2017 because Mr S told her she could only reduce
her cover once. The policy terms and conditions state that any change must take place at
the policy anniversary and must be notified with two months notice. While this wasnt exactly
how she thought the policy worked, she was nevertheless reassured that shed ultimately be
able to reduce her premiums by lowering the level of cover. Shes acknowledged she valued
having cover in place while her children were still in education. And in one of her letters of
complaint, she noted when we felt it necessary we could reduce the amount of cover and I
was happy that when the time came I would be able to amend the level of cover and
therefore the premiums accordingly. This suggests to me that Mrs N was planning for the
future and hadnt necessarily determined to reduce her cover in 2017.
In November 2019 Mrs N asked to reduce her premium to £50 and the level of cover
accordingly. Shes explained that this coincided with her youngest children going to
university and was within the two-month window before the policy anniversary in 
January 2020.
Its impossible to know with any certainty exactly what Mrs N would have done had she been
told by Mr S in 2017 that her premiums couldnt be reduced. But, on balance, I think its most
likely she wouldve kept her cover in place until September 2019, when her children left
school. At which point I thinks she wouldve most likely surrendered it and taken out cover
that better suited her needs at that time.
Mrs Ns letter to ReAssure in November 2019 suggests that her priority at the time was to
reduce the premium to a level she considered to be more affordable in the long term (£50 a
month), rather than secure a particular level of cover.
In view of this, Im currently minded to direct ReAssure to treat the policy as though it were
surrendered in September 2019. I say this as I think Mrs N would reasonably have wanted to
obtain more suitable cover as soon as possible once her circumstances changed. As she
could surrender the policy at any time, without notice, I think its reasonable to assume shed
have done it in September 2019. So I think ReAssure should pay Mrs N the surrender value
that wouldve applied at the time. For simplicity, and to allow ReAssure to reach an accurate
calculation, I think it can use 30 September 2019 as the surrender date. It should also refund
the premiums Mrs N paid, less the £50 a month she was willing to spend on alternative 
cover, from 30 September 2019 to date. To this it should add interest (less any tax properly
deductible) at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date each premium was paid to the
date of settlement.
Trouble and upset
Having carefully considered everything Mrs N has told us, I can see that she has 
experienced significant trouble and upset as a result of this complaint. Shes told us shes
spent hours writing, emailing and telephoning about this complaint. Shes also told us shes
lost sleep and has cried over this issue. She says shes felt ignored and made to feel as
though she was either lying or a fool when bringing her complaint.While its to be expected that a consumer will experience some inconvenience when bringing
a complaint, I think Mrs N has experienced significant trouble and upset in pursuing her
complaint.
Had Mr Ss response in 2017 clearly clarified the limitations of the policy, I think Mrs N could
have pursued her complaint with relative ease at the time. But I think the added complication
of being reassured in 2017, has caused this complaint to become unnecessarily protracted
and confusing.
In view of this, Im minded to direct ReAssure to pay Mrs N £200 compensation, to recognise
the trouble and upset shes experienced in bringing this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision 
ReAssure accepted my provisional decision without further comment. 
Mrs N was grateful for some of my findings, but overall disagreed with my conclusions. She 
maintained that she wouldnt have taken out the policy had she known the premiums would 
never go down. She said shes paid over the odds for the cover on the basis that it offered 
flexibility. She also said the level of compensation I awarded in respect of her trouble and 
upset was derisory. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ns strength of feeling about this complaint. But, having considered 
everything afresh, Ive reached the same conclusions as I set out in my provisional decision. 
Its impossible to know with any certainty what would have happened had Mrs N been given 
clearer information in 1996 or 2017. But I must weigh up all the available evidence to decide 
what I think was most likely. I must do this without the benefit of hindsight. 
Mrs N has argued fervently that shed have acted differently than I have suggested. While 
this is of course possible, taking everything into account, Ive not been persuaded that she 
would have, or indeed what that alternative action would have been.
While I appreciate flexibility was appealing to Mrs N, I cant say the evidence from the time of 
the sale indicates it was her main objective. The evidence supports she was looking for 
family protection for an unspecified period. A whole of life policy was a reasonable 
recommendation to address this need at the time. And I think its most likely Mrs N would 
have accepted this recommendation, even if shed known her premiums couldnt be reduced 
in the future. Mrs N worked for the company that sold the policy at the time. I think this 
wouldve made it more likely shed have accepted the recommendation at the time, even if 
cover wasnt as flexible as she hoped for. 
Again, I cant know for certain what wouldve happened had Mrs N been clearly advised by 
Mr S in 2017 that her premiums couldnt go down. But I think the weight of evidence 
indicates shed most likely have waited before surrendering her policy. I considered the fact 
that Mrs N didnt immediately surrender her cover in 2016 when ReAssure advised her that 
she couldnt reduce her premiums. I also noted that when Mrs N enquired about making 
changes to her policy she appeared be making plans for the future. Mrs N has explained that 
her need for cover changed when her children all left education, this didnt happen until 
2019. I remain of the opinion that its fair to both parties to assume 30 September 2019 as the date she would most likely have surrendered the policy. 
Ive carefully considered the additional points Mrs N has made regarding the trouble and 
upset she faced pursuing her complaint, but Im not minded to increase the award I 
previously set out. While Ive taken into consideration the amount of time Mrs N has spent 
pursuing her complaint, the compensation shouldnt be viewed as payment for her time. I 
also factored the way Mrs N felt after speaking with various complaint handlers into the 
award. Taking everything into account, I still consider £200 is appropriate compensation in 
the circumstances. 
Putting things right
In view of my findings above, I consider a fair and reasonable outcome would be for 
ReAssure to put Mrs N in the position she would have been in had she surrendered her 
policy on 30 September 2019. To do so it should:
Refund the premiums Mrs N has paid towards the policy since September 2019, less
£50 a month. To this it should add interest (less any tax properly deductible) at the
simple rate of 8% per year from the date each premium was paid to the date of
settlement.
Pay her the surrender value that would have applied on 30 September 2019, plus 
interest (less any tax properly deductible) at the simple rate of 8% per year.
Pay her £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to pay compensation as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman