DRN-2302166
The complaint
Mr T complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited wont remove a non-fault 
claim from his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T contacted Watford to report an incident. He said another car had hit his whilst the driver 
was parking. He said he heard the noise and felt the impact. He said another driver 
witnessed the collision and there was slight damage to his car. Watford said it would record 
the claim as non-fault and started the claims process. 
Mr T then reviewed CCTV footage and thought there may not have been any contact 
between the cars. He thought a pedestrian with shopping may have touched his car. He 
couldnt account for a small mark on his car. He asked for the claim to be removed from his 
record. But Watford declined to do this as it said it couldnt be sure that an incident hadnt 
taken place.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr T 
had been adamant that his car had been hit by the other. She looked at the CCTV footage 
and thought it didnt show a collision. But she thought this didnt mean there hadnt been an 
incident due to the scratch on Mr Ts car and the witnesss statement. So she thought 
Watford had a duty to record the non-fault claim and that it had made sure this didnt affect 
Mr Ts No Claims Discount (NCD). 
Mr T replied that no accident had happened, and no damage had been caused. He provided 
a video of the back of his car which he said showed no damage. He asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr T feels anxious that the reported incident may affect his premiums 
at renewal. I was sorry to hear that he felt threatened at the time of the incident. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that under the How to make a claim section of Mr Ts policy booklet it states:
Notification
Please note that You must report all incidents to Us, within 24 hours of the incident, ideally 
within the first hour. This is regardless of whether You wish to make a claim under the Policy 
or not.
This is later repeated with more detail in the General Conditions section of the policy booklet 
under 6. Claims Procedure. I can also see that the Insurance Proposal Form explains that 
Watford will pass all reported incidents to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
Register where they will be recorded. Mr T was asked to agree that he had read and 
understood this when he took out the policy. 
I think this is standard industry practice and I think the policy documents make it very clear 
that Mr T must report any incidents and that they will be recorded by Watford. 
Ive listened to Mr Ts call to Watford when he notified it of the incident. I think Mr T was 
adamant that the other car had made contact with his and left a mark on his car. He said he 
had an independent witness and could obtain CCTV footage. Mr T later thought this wasnt 
supported by the CCTV footage. He thought a pedestrian passing his car with shopping 
bags could have caused the noise and impact. 
But this would still be classed as an incident that would need to be notified to Watford under 
the policy terms and conditions. And, as Mr T had reported damage to his car, I think 
Watford was correct to have recorded it as it has a duty to maintain accurate records. 
Watford closed the claim and didnt make any outlay, so the claim was recorded as non-
fault. Watford said this wouldnt affect Mr Ts NCD, which I can see is correct according to 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr T has lately provided a video of his car showing that there was no damage. But he was 
adamant that there had been a white spot on his car after this incident and he later told us 
there was a scratch. The video was provided two months after the incident. So I cant safely 
say that it provides evidence that there was no damage at the time to Mr Ts car. 
So I think Watford acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions when it recorded the reported incident as a non-fault claim. And I dont require it 
to change this. 
Mr T was also unhappy with Watfords level of service. But I havent seen any evidence that 
Watford provided incorrect information or made any promises to Mr T that it would remove 
records of the claim. I think Watford called Mr T back as it said it would. And I think it 
considered the evidence that Mr T provided.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman