DRN-4396261
The complaint
Mrs E complains about Astrenska Insurance Limiteds handling of her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs E holds an annual travel insurance policy with Astrenska. Whilst abroad, Mrs E was 
injured and admitted to hospital on 3 February. Astrenska was notified of this the same day 
and opened a claim. 
Astrenska then had problems obtaining the medical report from the hospital. Mrs E was told 
she was fit to fly on 5 February and wanted to return to the UK for surgery. However, Mrs Es 
husband (Mr E), who was acting on her behalf, couldnt reach Astrenska to find out what was 
happening with her repatriation. He therefore arranged this himself on 7 February. Mrs E 
complained to Astrenska about its handling of the claim.
Astrenska said a medical report was needed before its medical team could confirm 
repatriation. It explained it had difficulty obtaining the medical report from the hospital 
directly. It had therefore passed the case to its local agent, but the agent was also unable to 
obtain the report. Astrenska accepted that several of Mr Es phone calls had dropped, and 
his emails not answered. It said that the medical information should have been obtained and 
repatriation arranged for Mrs E. It apologised for this and ultimately offered £300 
compensation. Unhappy with this, Mrs E brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She accepted there had been 
failings on Astrenskas part, but she thought the compensation offered had been reasonable. 
Mrs E didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Astrenska has settled the claim for Mrs Es repatriation costs, and so the claim settlement 
isnt in dispute. Although Mrs E wants interest on the repatriation costs, this Service doesnt 
generally award interest if a settlement has already been paid. Ive therefore only considered 
Astrenskas handling of the claim. 
After Astrenska was notified of the claim on 3 February, it required further information from 
Mrs E. Some of this was provided on 4 February by Mr E, though Astrenska still needed the 
medical report. The following day, Astrenska contacted the hospital to request this, however 
the staff couldnt speak English. Astrenska followed up its request by email.
Astrenska then arranged for a local agent to try and obtain the medical report. I think that 
was reasonable, so Im satisfied that Astrenska was making attempts to move the claim 
forward here. Mr E then provided Astrenska with the number of an English-speaking doctor 
at the hospital, also on 5 February. I see that Astrenska tried to call this number, but it didnt 
connect. It passed the number to its agent too. 
The agent initially advised Astrenska on 5 February that, because of privacy laws, the 
medical report would only be given to Mrs E by the hospital. Later that day, the agent said 
the hospital had advised them to try again on 6 February to see if the report could be 
provided. 
Astrenska hasnt provided any evidence to show that its agent attempted to obtain the 
medical report on 6 February.
I understand the air ambulance company were able to obtain the medical report directly from 
the hospital, so I dont know why this wasnt provided to Astrenskas agent. However, based 
on the evidence, I think reasonable attempts were made by Astrenska to obtain the medical 
report prior to 6 February.
Mrs E was found to be fit to fly on 5 February. Mr E made a number of attempts to contact 
Astrenska after this to get an update on the matter, but without success. He then informed 
Astrenska on 7 February by email that hed arranged Mrs Es repatriation himself. 
I wouldnt expect Astrenska to consider repatriation at this point without a medical report 
from Mrs Es treating doctors. Whilst its clear that Astrenska ought to have done more to try 
and obtain the medical report on 6 February, I dont know that this would have been 
provided by the hospital before Mr E arranged his wifes repatriation on 7 February (given 
the previous difficulties Astrenska had experienced in obtaining this). 
Taking this into account, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mrs Es repatriation 
would have been arranged any earlier by Astrenska - even if it had made further attempts to 
obtain the medical report, or if Mr E had been able to get through to Astrenska. 
However, I do think Mrs E was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result 
of Astrenskas poor handling of the matter, and lack of updates to her husband acting on her 
behalf. Astrenska has offered £300 compensation for its failings here, and overall, I think that 
was reasonable.
To be clear, I havent been able to consider any impact to Mr E in making an award for 
compensation. Thats because he isnt covered under the policy and so isnt considered an 
eligible complainant according to our rules.
My final decision
My final decision is that Astrenska Insurance Limited should pay Mrs E £300 compensation if 
it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman