DRN-4021436
The complaint
Ms M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to refund her the amount she 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent 24 February 2023 I explained that I didnt think this complaint
should be upheld. I said:
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Ms M and Monzo set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Monzo should 
refund any of the money Ms M has lost because of this scam.
Monzo was unable to attempt a chargeback for the payments Ms M made in relation to this 
scam to Huobi and H-finance Simplex.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited 
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Ms M was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Ms M didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, she paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges 
(Huobi and H-finance Simplex). This is important because Monzo was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchants she paid (Huobi and H-finance Simplex), not 
another party (such as X).
The service provided by Huobi and H-finance Simplex would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Ms Ms payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Huobi and H-
finance Simplex provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the 
cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt 
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Ms M paid. As Huobi and H- 
finance Simplex provided the requested service to Ms M any chargeback attempt would 
likely fail.
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have prevented some or all the payments. Ms 
M has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Huobi and H-finance Simplex, so 
the starting point here is that Ms M is responsible. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The question here is whether Monzo should have been aware of the scam and stepped in. 
And if it had stepped in, that the scam would have been prevented. 
Our Investigator said he would have expected Monzo to have been aware of suspicious 
activity on Ms Ms account by the time she made the eighth payment, and that had it stepped 
in at this point and asked Ms M questions about the payments she was making it would likely 
have prevented any further loss.
I agree with our Investigator in part, that by the eighth payment Ms M made in relation to the 
scam Monzo should have contacted Ms M. But four payments Ms M attempted to make on 
17 February 2022 were declined prompting Ms M to contact Monzo herself via the online 
chat facility.
Monzo explained it had frozen Ms Ms account and had to carry out further checks. It asked 
Ms M to provide pieces of information:
1, Any recent failed payments including how much and what the payments were for, as well 
as who they were supposed to be made to.
2, Any large bank transfers youve sent or received in the last few days  including who they 
were to or from, what they were for, and whether they were personal or business 
transactions.
3, Any documents you have for these transactions  Like statements, invoices, receipts, 
wage slips. Dont worry if you dont have any of these things, but the more you can send me 
the better
Ms M responded
1, Hyobi. I invest in cryptocurrency 2, They were all personal transactions from my own 
bank accounts, I use my savings to invest in cryptocurrency 3, As you can see these are all 
transactions made from my own account to myself again, then I buy coins and resell them.
Please release my funds its all I have
I think its clear from the answers Ms M gave that she was discussing the recent payments 
she had made into the scam, that had been declined as she named the business she was 
paying in response to point one. Although she did not give an accurate account as to what 
the payments were intended to be for i.e., investing with X to make money by completing 
tasks. From the misleading answers Ms M had given I dont think Monzo would have any 
reason to think the payments Ms M was making was in relation to a scam, or reasonably 
have been able to prevent it from continuing.
Ms M contacted Monzo again the same day having realised she had been a victim of a 
scam. But again, Ms M gave an accurate account of what had happened. She explained that 
someone had taken a video of her and had been sending fraudulent transactions from her 
account. It wasnt until sometime later when prompted by Monzo, that Ms M told the truth 
about how the scam had occurred.
I think Monzos fraud prevention systems were triggered at a reasonable time (when she 
attempted several payments on 17 February 2022) but as Ms M gave false information about 
the payments Monzo was unable to detect the scam and prevent it from continuing.
Considering Ms M was in contact with Monzo again after realising she had been scammed 
and still gave inaccurate information, I think that even if Monzo had contacted Ms M when she attempted further payments its likely she would have given further inaccurate 
information and Monzo would have been unable to discover the scam and prevent it from 
continuing.
As I think its unlikely Monzo was able to prevent the scam from taking place even if it had 
contacted Ms M when she made further payments, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
ask Monzo to refund any of the payments Ms M made in relation to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo didnt provide any further information following receipt of my provisional decision. 
Ms M said she didnt give inaccurate information to Monzo, and Monzo should have acted 
when Ms M started to make payments that were higher than her usual spend. Ms M also 
reiterated that she had been the victim of a scam and that Monzo should have done more.
I appreciate Ms Ms comments, but I think the points she has made have already been 
covered in my provisional decision. Ms M has not provided any further evidence or 
information that changes my decision.
With the above in mind, I think the outcome reached in my provisional decision is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman