DRN-2092747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way that Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled their 
home insurance claim for damage caused to their house by a fallen tree.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss home was damaged by a 70ft local authority owned tree, situated on their 
boundary, that came down in a storm in March 2019. The damage caused to the garden, the 
building and its contents was significant. Mr S made a claim to Fairmead. The claim was 
initially handled by Fairmeads underwriting agent, P, under a delegated authority 
arrangement. P accepted the claim on behalf of Fairmead (under the Fallen Tree peril) and 
appointed a loss adjuster to assess and validate it. 
The loss adjuster carried out his first site visit a few days later. He noted extensive damage 
to the rear of the house and placed an initial reserve of £82,500 on the claim. He noted the 
buildings sum insured was adequate at £1million. He also noted the contents sum insured 
was £75,000 and said in his first report to P a few days later, that the only adequate way to 
establish the value of the contents at risk was to prepare a fully costed inventory. 
Make safe works were undertaken (and reimbursed by P) and, on the loss adjusters 
recommendation, Mr and Mrs S appointed damage restoration experts to assess the 
affected contents. In the loss adjusters second report to P in mid-April it was again noted 
that that the only adequate way to establish the value of the contents at risk was to prepare 
a fully costed inventory. 
At the start of July, the loss adjuster that had been handling the claim left and was replaced 
by a colleague who reported again to P in early July. He said that three tenders were being 
sought from building contractors including one from insurers approved network. The report 
also commented that the restoration experts had now reported that there were many high-
value items damaged beyond economical repair. A first (incomplete) version at risk 
calculation inventory of contents provided by Mr and Mrs S had, by this point, valued their 
contents at £109,000. The loss adjuster noted that the contents sum insured of £75,000 was 
clearly inadequate and that the existing reserve was insufficient to cover the extent of the 
loss. He recommended to P that the reserve was increased to £220,000 for buildings and 
the full £75,000 for contents. 
Upon receipt of the report, P noted that there was substantial underinsurance which, it 
thought, may have implications for the claim acceptance. The claim was referred to 
underwriters in mid-July and A reservation of rights letter was purportedly issued to 
Mr and Mrs S at the same time. Mr and Mrs S sent P their contents list on 9 July. The 
tenders for the building work were sent to P on 29 July 2019.
Between 9 July and 25 September 2019 Mr and Mrs S heard nothing from P despite chasing 
it numerous times (via the loss adjuster). Mr and Mrs S remained in their damaged home 
throughout.  On 23 September they made a formal complaint to P. Mr and Mrs S asked P to 
make a final decision about their claim which was now 28 weeks old. They said that P had 
had the tenders for over 8 weeks and all the information about their contents before that, yet 
they had received no information about the status of their claim. Mr and Mrs S said that all 
they had received were holding responses from the loss adjuster in reply to their emails. 
They said that P had ignored their requests about the provision of alternative 
accommodation and theyd continued to live in their badly damaged home with one of their 
elderly, unwell mothers since March. Mr and Mrs S said they had reduced living space, that 
parts of the house were unsafe and that P had done nothing to resolve their situation. Mr 
and Mrs S listed the 10 dates on which they had emailed insurers for an update on the 
status of their claim which had all gone unanswered. Mr and Mrs S said they were 
experiencing ongoing disruption and upset in their lives. 
P wrote to Mr and Mrs S on 25 September 2019. It said it would review their complaint 
separately but in the meantime it had concerns over whether their contents had been 
undervalued when cover was taken out (in early 2019). P said the type of policy 
Mr and Mrs S had only allowed a maximum sum insured for contents of £75,000 but it now 
appeared the actual value of the contents in their home was more than double that amount. 
P said if it had known this then it wouldnt have issued Mr and Mrs P with a policy. P said 
Mr and Mrs S were under a duty (set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012  CIDRA) to take reasonable care when making 
representations. P said that where incorrect information had been provided it was, in certain 
circumstances, permitted to avoid the contract. 
P said it hadnt yet reached a final decision about what to do but in the interests of fairness it 
asked Mr and Mrs S to provide a very clear and detailed explanation of why the information 
presented in relation to the value of their contents was so significantly misrepresented. 
Mr and Mrs S sent P their 16-page detailed response on 22 October 2019. In it they 
explained how they had acquired their contents over the years (often from auction websites 
so they had no idea what the retail price of an item would be) and how they had no idea 
when they applied for cover that their replacement value was much more than their purchase 
price. They said they hadnt misrepresented the value of their contents and explained in 
detail how they truly believed that £75,000 was way more cover than they actually needed. 
They said they understood the average clause contained in their policy as the first loss 
adjuster had explained it to them earlier in the claim. Mr and Mrs S said they accepted it was 
likely to apply in their circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S said that where, for example, the replacement value of their dining room table 
and chairs was cited as £23,000 by the restoration experts, they had bought it second-hand 
in 2017 for £4,350 (proof of payment was provided) and they had no idea when they 
purchased the items that they were worth that much. Mr and Mrs S said that they had valued 
their contents as being worth no more than £54,500 so, in taking out £75,000 of cover they 
honestly thought they were adequately protected. 
Mr and Mrs S asked that Fairmead take what theyd said into account and accept their claim 
and move it along. 
P wrote to Mr and Mrs S on 21 November 2019. The letter was both Ps final response to 
their complaint of 23 September and to their more recent letter of 22 October 2019. P said 
that underwriters had recently agreed that Mr and Mrs S hadnt carelessly or negligently 
underinsured their contents. P said their explanation demonstrated that the valuation of their 
contents had been honestly made so it would not be avoiding the policy. P said it 
appreciated that itd taken some time to reach this decision and that thered been a delay in 
the progression of the claim. P said the first loss adjuster had failed to recognise that the 
contents were underinsured which resulted in the issue not being notified to underwriters 
until July 2019. P offered Mr and Mrs S compensation of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd been caused by the delay in progression of their claim. P said the loss adjuster would be in touch with them shortly to discuss progression and settlement of their 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs S had already referred their complaint about the delays and lack of progression 
of their claim to this service in September 2019. Their complaint was allocated to one of our 
investigators who looked into it for them. He issued his opinion in July 2020 noting that this 
was the first of two complaints Mr and Mrs S had made about their claim and related to 
events between the date the claim was notified (March 2019) and the date of Ps decision 
not to avoid the claim in mid-November 2019. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint be upheld. He said he thought 
there were two issues that P (on behalf of Fairmead) couldve handled better, the first of 
which was that it took it 4 months from the date the claim was made to notice the issue with 
the value of the contents and the second being Ps poor communication and lack of 
explanation to Mr and Mrs S about what the issue with their claim was. He noted that 
Mr and Mrs S had been under the impression that their claim was progressing (from July to 
September 2019) and that theyd explained the situation to P regarding the vulnerability of 
both their elderly mothers (for whom they were carers) who were also living/staying with 
them. 
Our investigator said P hadnt explained why itd taken from July to November to agree the 
contents issue or why it hadnt asked Mr and Mrs S to explain the discrepancies with the 
value of the contents sooner. He said hed seen no evidence to explain what P was doing 
between July and November 2019. 
Our investigator recommended that P/Fairmead pay Mr and Mrs S a further £400 (in addition 
to the £400 itd already offered) as compensation for the delays and lack of clear 
communication. 
P replied and provided evidence that it had been seeking its own legal advice about the 
underinsurance and the avoidance of Mr and Mrs Ss policy between 20 August 2019 and 
late September 2019 (when itd written to Mr and Mrs S asking them to explain how theyd 
valued their contents). Mr and Mrs S replied to our investigator to say that P had written to 
them on 25 September and that itd taken them until 22 October to collate their evidence and 
write back. 
Our investigator issued a second opinion and was still minded to uphold the complaint. He 
said that whilst P had been in touch with its legal team from 20 August it had still taken it six 
months from the date of the claim to write and ask Mr and Mrs S to explain how theyd 
valued their contents. He said the extent of the damage to Mr and Mrs Ss home meant it 
was important that their claim was moved along as quickly as possible and he didnt think six 
months was a reasonable amount of time to take. He also noted that during late August and 
early September, P had taken account of the mistake its loss adjuster had made in failing to 
notice the true value of the contents. 
Fairmead, through P, asked for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is one of two made by Mr and Mrs S to this service about their home 
insurance claim for damage caused by a falling tree. As stated above, it relates to the period 
from the date the claim was first notified on or around 12 March 2019 to the date P accepted Mr and Mrs Ss contents underinsurance had not been carelessly made on 21 November 
2019. Issues after this date will be addressed within the second complaint Mr and Mrs S 
have brought. That said, there is information that has relatively recently been provided by 
Fairmead, in response to that second complaint, that has provided further clarification about 
what happened in the first 8 months of the claim. That information is, therefore, of relevance 
to this complaint.
I can see that it wasnt until 22 July 2019 that Fairmead was notified by P about 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim. Fairmead has more recently explained to Mr and Mrs S that P handled 
claims for it within an agreed delegated authority up to a claim value of £100,000. Fairmead 
has explained that it wasnt notified about the claim until the second loss adjuster took over 
in July 2019 and noticed that his predecessor had underestimated the cost of the claim 
(thereby taking it over the agreed delegated authority limit). 
It was at this point that Fairmeads complex and major loss claims department took over the 
claim. This meant all subsequent financial decisions were subject to its approval. P, and the 
loss adjuster itd appointed, moved to acting on Fairmeads behalf on a retained authority 
basis. 
Fairmead has since accepted that P handled this first complaint without its direct 
involvement. Fairmead has said this appears to have been due to a misunderstanding on Ps 
part about the retained authority complaints process. And it has said that P shouldve 
referred this first complaint of Mr and Mrs Ss to Fairmead as it wouldve handled and 
managed the complaints escalation to this service. Fairmead has recently apologised to 
Mr and Mrs S for the confusion caused. 
Ive set out in some detail above what happened during the course of the first 8 months of 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim. It is of course reasonable for an insurer, when it becomes aware that 
there may be underinsurance or a careless misrepresentation, to want to take some time to 
look into both. That is to be accepted. But it appears to me, from the evidence Ive seen, and 
to which I have referred, that Mr and Mrs S were left in a severely damaged and dangerous 
property, caring for two elderly and infirm ladies, for an avoidable and un-necessarily long 
period of time. 
I mention above that the first loss adjuster in his first report (two days after the tree came 
down) recommended to P that the only way to establish an accurate contents value was to 
complete a full inventory. He said it again in his second report a month later. Ive seen no 
evidence that P asked him to arrange such an inventory or approached Mr and Mrs S 
directly to prepare one. Indeed, it was two months after the event (and whilst Mr and Mrs S 
were abroad) before they were asked to prepare a room by room inventory of their contents.
It appears to me that this amounts to an un-necessary two-month delay. And it is unclear to 
me from the evidence Ive seen whether it was the loss adjuster himself that asked 
Mr and Mrs S to provide the inventory or whether he did so at the behest of P. That evidence 
is unavailable.
It also appears to me that Ps comments about the first loss adjuster failing to recognise the 
contents were underinsured arent, if you take the comments from the first of his two reports 
into account, entirely accurate. He clearly had immediately noted that a full inventory was 
needed in order to provide an accurate valuation. 
Mr and Mrs P contacted P/the loss adjuster over 10 times between 9 July 2019 and 
23 September 2019 to enquire about the status of their claim (which they believed to have 
been accepted). Other than an occasional holding email from the loss adjuster they received 
silence. Whilst I can see that legal advice about underinsurance and avoidance was being sought by Fairmead from 20 August, its not entirely clear to me firstly why Mr and Mrs Ss 
emails went unanswered or why it took between 5-6 weeks (mid-July to late August) to 
instruct lawyers for advice (and not provide Mr and Mrs S with the courtesy of a response to 
any of their emails). Ive seen mention from P that a reservation of rights letter was issued 
to Mr and Mrs S in July but no copy of that letter has been provided nor have Mr and Mrs S 
(who have been diligent about keeping records) ever made mention of receiving one. 
Of course, from Fairmeads recent correspondence with Mr and Mrs S it is now known that 
there were issues and confusion between it and P and that these directly and adversely 
impacted Mr and Mrs S. Communication was non-existent and there were delays in 
progressing the claim. And all the while Mr and Mrs S remained in their damaged home 
endeavouring to care for their elderly mothers. 
I dont think it needed to take Fairmead over six months to notify Mr and Mrs S that it had 
concerns about them being underinsured and to ask them to explain why that might be. Ive 
mentioned above two significant periods of delay that, in my view, were avoidable. Added to 
this is the non-existent communication about the status and progression of the claim and the 
fact that it was imperative, given the nature and extent of the damage and their personal 
circumstances, that the claim was moved along. 
Putting things right
All insurance claims, by their very nature, attract a certain degree of inconvenience and often 
distress for a policyholder. But where an insurer, through its words or actions, makes an 
already distressing situation worse, this service can recommend it pays compensation to the 
consumer. Ive thought about the avoidable trouble and upset that Fairmead/P put Mr and 
Mrs S to during the first 8 months of their claim and I agree with our investigator, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, that Fairmead should be required to pay an additional £400 
(making a total of £800) for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr and Mrs S by 
delaying the progression of their claim and failing to communicate with them for long periods 
of time. 
Mr S says they havent received the first £400. If that is the case, Fairmead will now need to 
pay a total of £800 in compensation. Fairmead firm must pay the compensation awarded 
within 28 days of the date we tell them that Mr and Mrs S have accepted my final decision.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs S total compensation of £800 for the trouble and upset they were caused as Ive 
explained above in the Putting things right section of this decision. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before 3 June 2021. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman