DRN-4270266
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund a number of payments made from his 
account which he says he didnt make.
What happened
In September 2022, a number of payments were made from Mr Ss TSB account which he 
says he didnt make. Mr S says his card was stolen around this time and he usually uses a 
mobile device to make payments on this account so didnt immediately notice. Once he 
noticed the payments on his mobile banking app, he reported them to TSB and asked it to 
refund the money he had lost.
TSB investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments. It said the payments were made 
with chip and PIN, and its fraud department had sufficient evidence to deem the payments 
as genuine. Mr S wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they thought it was most likely 
that Mr S had consented to the payments, so they didnt think TSB should have to refund 
them. Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer authorised the payments  
for example, by making them themselves or telling someone else they could make them.
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made. And this doesnt necessarily require proving that the customer made 
the payments themselves, as it is possible for a customer to authorise someone else to 
make payments on their account.
TSB has sent us evidence which shows almost all the payments Mr S is disputing were 
made using his genuine card, either with his PIN or by making contactless payments  with a 
few payments made by entering his card details. This means the payments were correctly 
authenticated, and so I must also think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that Mr S consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr S initially told our service his card was stolen. And he told TSB he hadnt given anyone 
else permission to use his card, no-one other than one of his friends knows his PIN and his 
PIN is only written down in his phone. But if this is the case, I cant see how an unknown 
thief would have been able to make all the chip and PIN payments. Mr S hadnt made any 
payments using his PIN in the days before the disputed transactions, so there doesnt 
appear to have been an opportunity for an opportunistic thief to have overseen him enter his 
PIN. And so a thief who stole his card would have had to correctly guess his PIN, which I 
think is unlikely. So I dont think its likely these payments were done by an opportunistic 
thief.
When he first called TSB about these payments, Mr S also said hed given his card to a 
friend of his and told them they could use it to make some payments  but the friend had 
made more payments than hed intended. But by saying his friend could use his card to 
make some payments, I think Mr S had given his friend apparent authority to make 
payments on his account.
I appreciate that Mr Ss friend may have gone on to make more payments on the account 
than Mr S intended, but these would still be treated as authorised as it appears Mr S had 
consented to his friend making at least some payments on the account.
In order to remove this apparent authority, Mr S would have needed to do something to 
ensure his friend didnt have access to and couldnt make payments on the account 
anymore. And I accept that when Mr S realised his friend had made more payments than he 
intended, he froze the card in his mobile banking app and contacted TSB. But he doesnt 
appear to have done this until after the disputed payments had been made from his account.
TSB has also sent us evidence which shows Mr S logged into his mobile banking app a 
number of times on the days when the disputed transactions were being made. And as the 
balance of payments made on the account will have been clearly visible to him when he 
logged in, and the balance would have been significantly different from what he would have 
been expecting it to be if none of the disputed payments had been made, I think it would be 
reasonable to have expected Mr S to have noticed and reported the payments sooner than 
he did if he had not agreed to them in some way.
So, based on the evidence I have, I think the disputed payments were authorised and so I 
dont think it would be fair to require TSB to refund them.
Mr S has mentioned that TSB told him not to make payments towards his credit card while 
this was being investigated, and that this has had an impact on his credit file which he would 
like corrected. But Ive listened to the calls Mr S had with TSB about these payments, and I 
dont agree it ever told him not to make payments. In one call, Mr S says he doesnt want to 
have to make payments and wont pay back any of the balance from the payments that 
werent him  but TSB doesnt agree to this. So I dont think it would be fair to hold TSB 
responsible for the impact Mr S not making payments towards his credit card has had on his 
credit file.
Mr S has also mentioned that the police investigated these payments and concluded it 
wasnt him who made the payments. But he hasnt provided any evidence of this. And, as I 
explained above, even if it wasnt Mr S who made the payments, this doesnt mean he didnt 
authorise someone else to make them. And so this doesnt change my conclusions here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman