DRN-1888421
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy as Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim that he made on 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a travel insurance policy to cover him from 4 July  29 July 2019 for both the 
USA and Canada. On 20 July, Mr M was due to travel from an airport in the USA to an 
airport in Canada. His flight was cancelled by his airline due to poor weather. Mr M was 
booked on another fight, for the next day by his airline. 
As a result of this, Mr M had to book overnight accommodation and missed out on plans he 
had made for his first night in Toronto.
Mr M claimed on his travel insurance policy but Admiral declined it. They declined it on the 
basis that the flight had been cancelled by the airline - which Admiral said wasnt covered 
under this policy.
Admiral also looked at whether Mr M would be able to make a claim for delays. The policy 
says Mr M is covered for delayed international departures which are defined as, 
The airport, port or international station from which you leave the UK on your trip or the final 
airport, port or international station to return to the UK at the end of your trip.
They said that under the policy, the delay might be covered providing the flight was leaving 
or returning to the UK. In Mr Ms case he was flying to Canada from the USA part way 
through his time away - this wasnt a part of his outbound or return leg of the trip, so Admiral 
declined his claim but suggested that he contact his airline. Mr M had previously contacted 
his airline but wasnt successful in claiming through them.
Mr M was unhappy with Admiral declining his claim as he felt it hadnt been handled 
correctly. Admiral sent Mr M a final response in September 2019 but didnt change their 
position. Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that Admiral had correctly declined the claim and didnt recommend 
that they needed to take any further action. Mr M disagreed and the complaint has now been 
referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I agree with our investigators findings that this policy didnt cover cancelations or delays in 
the situation that Mr M has tried to claim for and Ill explain my reasoning in further detail 
below.The flight cancelation 
The flight to Canada from the USA was cancelled by Mr Ms airline because of bad weather. 
This policy only gave cover for delayed or missed departures, rather than cancelation by the 
airline. So I think that Admiral fairly declined Mr Ms claim on this basis.
In these situations airlines may have responsibilities to passengers and our investigator gave 
Mr M a link where he might be able to find further details about this. But this isnt something I 
can consider in this decision.
The delays experienced by Mr M
Ive then gone on to consider whether Mr Ms claim should succeed on the basis that his 
travel was delayed and he incurred costs as a result. However, the terms of this policy dont 
cover delays for flights that arent coming from or going to the UK. Mr M has confirmed that 
he was travelling to Toronto from Newark and didnt return to the UK until a week later.
So I also think that Admiral fairly declined the claim on this basis.
So, having carefully considered all of the evidence I think that Admiral have acted within the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly declined Mr Ms claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman