The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc lowered the credit limit on her credit card, and 
then closed her account without her agreement.
What happened
Miss B had a Barclays credit card, but hadnt used it for some time. Barclays wrote to Miss B 
to say it was lowering her credit limit, and giving her notice that it would close her account in 
two months time.
Miss B complained. She said shed not used the card for a while because shed been unwell, 
but didnt want her account to be closed. She explained she had a good credit history and 
didnt want to lose out on the opportunity to use her card for online shopping.
Barclays told Miss B it wouldnt change its mind. It said it had reviewed a number of 
accounts which hadnt been used for a while, and had taken the decision to close them. It 
said the terms of Miss Bs card allowed either party to end the agreement by giving notice, 
which it had done.
One of our investigators looked into things, and thought Barclays had treated Miss B fairly. 
She felt its decision was something the terms of Miss Bs account allowed it to do. And she 
thought it was a reasonable decision to take in light of its obligations as a responsible lender.
Miss B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. She didnt think it was 
right that Barclays could close her account if she said she still wanted to use the card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss B feels strongly about her complaint, and I do have some sympathy for her. I 
understand she feels shes managed her credit well, and doesnt think its right Barclays are 
closing her account.
But Miss B agreed to Barclays terms and conditions when she took out her credit card. 
These say that either Barclays or Miss B can end the relationship and close the account. If 
Barclays chooses to do so, it has to give Miss B two months notice. Thats what it did here.
Much as Miss B is free to choose who she wants to bank with, Barclays can choose who it 
wants to lend to or offer a credit card, and under what terms. And if it makes a decision thats 
a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgment, thats not something Id generally look to 
interfere with.
DRN-1068782In this case, Barclays has explained it reviewed a number of accounts where credit cards 
hadnt been used for some time. Miss Bs was one of these, and hadnt been used for four 
years. Barclays decided to close those accounts, as it was entitled to do, at least in part to 
reduce the overall amount of credit those customers (including Miss B) were exposed to. It 
explained this was in line with its aims as a responsible lender.
Overall Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to take the decision it did under its terms, took into 
account Miss Bs interests and didnt treat her any differently to its other customers. Given 
Miss Bs circumstances and the fact shed not used the card for so long Im not persuaded 
this decision has left her at a material disadvantage, and Im satisfied Barclays gave her a 
reasonable amount of time to make other arrangements if she felt shed need access to a 
credit card in the near future.
It follows that, while I appreciate Miss B feels her loyalty to Barclays hasnt been taken into 
account, I dont consider Barclays has treated her unfairly or unreasonably and therefore I 
dont require it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman