DRN-2425998
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Exeter Friendly Society Limited has dealt with his claim. 
What happened
Mr S took out an income protection policy on 25 June 2019 that was underwritten by Exeter. 
Unfortunately, he suffered a shoulder injury and was unable to work from 24 July 2019, so 
he made a claim on his policy. 
When he applied for the policy Mr S was asked to provide information on his employment 
status. He told Exeter that he had only one occupation  a delivery driver. Upon making his 
claim, Mr S was asked again about his occupation and he again confirmed he only had one 
occupation as a delivery driver. 
Exeter accepted Mr S claim for loss of earnings and started paying him the benefit as it was 
satisfied, he was totally unable to work due to injury. 
In January 2020 Exeter wrote to Mr S to let him know they had carried out some 
investigations and discovered he was a director of a tattoo company at the time the policy 
was taken out. And that it became incorporated in August 2019 during Mr S absence from 
work. Exeter asked Mr S why this company hadnt been disclosed to it when the policy was 
purchased, or during the claim. 
Mr S responded and explained he didnt perform any work to profit from and it is his friend 
who owns the parlour he practises at. He said drawing and tattooing is a hobby and has 
never been a source of income for him. 
Exeter decided to cease paying Mr S benefit as he hadnt disclosed his tattoo work. It also 
cancelled Mr Ss policy and asked him to refund the benefits already paid to him.
Unhappy with this Mr S brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened and he didnt think Exeter had acted unfairly. 
Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant policy terms
The policy covers Mr S in the event he is unable to work due to illness. The policy says: 
What you are covered for
With your Pure Protection Plus policy you are able to claim when you are totally unable to 
work due to illness or injury.
We only consider your ability to carry out your own occupation when we assess your claim.
Occupation is defined as: 
Occupation
This is every trade, profession or type of work that you undertake, it is not a specific 
occupation with any particular employer. 
In relation to the cancellation of cover the relevant policy terms say:
When we may cancel your policy. 
In the following circumstances, we may cancel your policy.
 If you miss three months premiums or more
 If you have acted dishonestly or knowingly claimed for benefits to which you were not 
entitled.
In this event, we will recover any benefits paid to you and will not refund any premiums
 If you did not take reasonable care to answer the questions to the best of your knowledge
when you applied for this policy.
If we identify fraudulent activity, we will share information with the police, other insurers and
similar bodies.
Has Exeter acted fairly? 
The industry rules say an insurer has a responsibility to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally. And the Insurance Act 2015 allows an insurer to cancel a policy and recover 
any benefits paid for a dishonest claim. 
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied that Exeter has acted fairly and reasonably. I 
say that because:
The terms of the policy clearly state Mr S is only able to claim if he is totally unable
to perform all of his occupations. As Mr S didnt disclose any other occupation, 
Exeter didnt have the opportunity to asses Mr S ability to carry out any other work 
he may be undertaking. So the claim was initially paid on the basis Mr S was solely a 
deliver driver and was unable to carry out that work. 
The evidence obtained from Exeter is persuasive that Mr S appeared to undertake 
work as a tattoo artist during his period of claim. At the time was policy was taken out 
Mr S was recorded as a director of a tattoo company but didnt disclose this to 
Exeter. And most notably, he changed his business to a limited company in August 
2019. Exeter has also referenced regular reviews of his work from his clients on 
social media during the claim period. 
Exeter has provided reasonable evidence to demonstrate why its likely Mr S is 
working in a paid occupation as a tattoo artist. This includes evidence Mr S donated 
part of the tattoo fee he received to charity in November 2019. And Mr S promoting a 
discounted service after a last-minute cancellation from a client. However, whether or 
not Mr S receives payment for his work isnt the test here. The policy terms state Mr 
S can only make a successful claim if he is unable to undertake any type of work. I note Mr S comments about not being a qualified professional in the UK. But that 
isnt what I need to consider. The evidence provided suggests Mr S has been 
working at the parlour as a junior. 
There is also evidence to show Mr S has been linked to a scooter sale online 
business. I think it was fair for Exeter to rely on this evidence because the sales 
adverts provide Mr S personal contact details. And the account has been set up with 
Mr S name and the address is in the area of his current address. 
Whilst Mr S was unable to work as a delivery driver due to his injury, Im not 
persuaded he was totally unable to work because the business has shown its likely 
he was working as a tattoo artist and potentially also selling scooters. 
Based on the outcome of their investigations, and the responses provided by Mr S, 
Im satisfied Exeter was fair to conclude Mr S had been receiving benefits to which 
he was not entitled. 
Overall, I dont think that Mr S has provided a sufficient explanation for what happened. So I 
think it was reasonable for Exeter to cancel the policy and recover any benefits paid to Mr S, 
in line with their terms and conditions.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman