DRN-1967648
The complaint
 Mr M is unhappy that Skipton Building Society closed, and wouldnt re-open, his lifetime ISA 
(LISA) account. 
What happened
The parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so I dont anticipate repeating it 
all here in detail. In summary, Mr M opened a LISA with Skipton in 2018. He expected to use 
the money he would put into this, and the government bonus, to buy a house in late 2019.
Skipton set up the account using the details that Mr M had given it. But when attempting to 
register the account with Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC), the system reported 
that the details didnt match. Skipton sent Mr M a letter in August 2018 explaining that there 
appeared to be a discrepancy. And it informed him that the process was that he needed to 
get in touch with HMRC to resolve this within 60 days, or his account would be closed. Mr M 
says he didnt receive that letter.
Having had no response from Mr M, Skipton sent him an email in September 2018, again 
asking him to resolve this with HMRC. It gave him 30 days to do this before it said it would 
close his account. Skipton again heard nothing back from Mr M, although it continued to try 
and register his account with HMRC, without success.
In February 2019, Skipton wrote to Mr M to say that it would be closing his account. It sent 
two letters, one of which was poorly worded - it indicated that Mr M had asked Skipton to 
close his account - that wasnt correct. The other letter correctly referred to the reason the 
account was being closed - Skiptons inability to register it with HMRC.
In its final response letter to this complaint, Skipton said that it was sorry that it referred to an 
incorrect closure reason in one of the letters. It offered Mr M £30 compensation for that. But 
it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it was required to close the account because the 
details didnt match.
Our investigator agreed that Skipton could close the account and didnt have to re-open it as 
the details didnt match. But he thought that as Skipton had delayed closing the account, this 
had made things worse for Mr M as he couldnt then open a new account in time to get the 
bonus before he intended to buy a house.
Mr M didnt agree. And the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M will be disappointed to hear that although I think his complaint should be upheld in part, 
I agree with the amount of compensation recommended by our investigator. Ill explain why.
I was sorry to hear of Mr Ms troubles with his LISA. And I can appreciate how frustrating it 
must have been for him to learn of the account closure, and that there wasnt time for him to 
apply for a new one before he bought his new home.
I appreciate that Mr M thinks that Skipton shouldnt have closed his account in the first place, 
but that it should then also have re-opened it when he complained. But I dont agree. Skipton 
sent a clear letter in August 2018 telling Mr M what it would do if he couldnt resolve the 
conflict between the information hed given to Skipton and that which HMRC held. Im 
satisfied that this is something only Mr M could have done - as for data protection reasons, 
HMRC wont provide information they hold on a taxpayer to anyone else.
Mr M says he didnt get the August letter. And I have no reason not to believe him, but it was 
sent and so its a mystery what happened to it. I know that our investigator has pointed out a 
difference in Mr Ms address, where his flat number is missing from the details held by 
Skipton. That could have been involved in the lost delivery of the letter and indeed in the 
discrepancy with the information held by HMRC.
Mr M also has a few middle names that arent detailed on the Skipton application, although 
they are held by HMRC. I know that middle names shouldnt have made a difference to the 
application and its verification, but Mr Ms last middle name does look like a surname. One of 
the e-mails that Mr M sent us included that middle name in the senders description. So, it 
looked double-barrelled in the email identifier. Again, its difficult to speculate, but that too 
could have given rise to the problem here.
Mr M should have received the email in September 2020 in which Skipton repeated the 
problem with the information discrepancy. That gave him 30 days to rectify this. Mr M says 
he only got an email in September wishing him a happy birthday. But again, as it was sent, I 
cant conclude that Skipton was responsible for it not being delivered. Perhaps it went into 
Mr Ms spam folder? Unfortunately, Mr M didnt take action by contacting HMRC. So, the 
discrepancy remained.
Ive listened to the call that Mr M had with HMRC in 2020. And the operator does say that 
financial institutions will be asked to return the money in a LISA where the details dont 
match. And if theres no money in the LISA, then it must be closed in any event.
The terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ms account have changed over the years. The 
2017 version that Ive seen doesnt mention closing the account for a discrepancy in the 
information held by HMRC. But the 2019 and 2020 versions do. Thats not to say that 
without such a term I think Skipton was wrong to close the account, as I agree that it needed 
to if it couldnt be registered with HMRC. But it would have been clearer for customers that 
this might happen after the keyfacts document was amended from late 2019 onwards.
Putting things right
In summary, I dont consider that Skipton was wrong to close Mr Ms account. And nor could 
the old one, or a new one, be opened until the problem with the discrepancy was sorted. 
That was for Mr M to take up with HMRC and, unfortunately, he didnt. But I do think that Mr 
M lost the opportunity to address this earlier than he did, as the account wasnt closed until 
February 2019. And thats when he made his complaint.
Skipton has agreed with our investigators recommendation that it pay Mr M £250 for the 
delay in closing his account. It would have been able to do this in October 2018 - in 
accordance with the 30-day notice period that it had given Mr M in the September 2018 
email. But it didnt close the account until February 2019. And by then, with the time that the 
complaint took, Mr M ended up with insufficient time to open a new account. And for it to be 
in place for the statutory 12 months before he intended to purchase a new home at the end of 2019.
I agree with the amount of compensation recommended by our investigator, although I 
consider this to be a payment for the trouble and upset caused to Mr M, rather than 
compensation for financial loss due to any lost government bonus on the account. Thats 
because I dont think that, overall, Skipton acted incorrectly in closing the account, it just 
delayed in doing so, which will have frustrated Mr M even more, given he then missed the 
deadline to get a new account opened in that financial year. It remains though that Mr M still 
didnt sort out the discrepancy with HMRC, so opening a new account would possibly have 
been met with the same difficulty in any event. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I require that Skipton Building Society 
pay Mr M, within 4 weeks of any acceptance by him of this decision:
£30 for the incorrect details in a letter, if not paid already; and
£250 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman