DRN-3516615
The complaint
Mr L complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his legal 
expenses claims. All references to LV include its claims handling agents. 
What happened
Mr L used his legal expenses insurance to pursue a claim in relation to a road traffic accident 
that happened in 2015. LV instructed a firm of solicitors, Firm A, to act on his behalf.
Later, Mr L wanted to use his legal expenses insurance to pursue a claim against Firm A for 
professional negligence. LV appointed a second firm of solicitors, Firm B, to assess whether 
such a claim enjoyed a reasonable chance of success (a condition of Mr Ls policy). In turn, 
Firm B instructed a barrister, who said that the claim didnt have good prospects of success. 
LV relied on this advice to decline Mr Ls claim about Firm A.
In June 2020, an Ombudsman decided that, in the absence of a legal challenge from a 
qualified solicitor or barrister, LV were entitled to rely on the barristers advice to conclude 
that Mr Ls claim didnt have a reasonable chance of success (by the policy definition) and 
therefore didnt need to do anything further. 
In February 2021, a different Ombudsman separately considered whether LV should have 
appointed Mr Ls preferred solicitors to assess the claims chance of success, instead of 
Firm B. They said that, unless there was a conflict of interest, a claimant wont usually be 
able to choose their own solicitor until litigation becomes necessary, which wasnt the case 
at the time. They found that the fact that LV had commercial relationships with both firms, in 
terms of referring work to them, wasnt, in itself, a conflict of interest. 
Since then, further issues have arisen, which Ive separated into four main points:
Mr Ls professional negligence claim against Firm A  Mr L says that litigation has 
now become necessary. He says LV must therefore accept the claim and appoint his 
preferred solicitors to proceed with it. Hes submitted an invoice for mediation and 
complaints that this hasnt been reimbursed;
Communication between LV and Firm A  Mr L discovered that, after hed told LV he 
wanted to make a professional negligence claim against Firm A, it spoke to Firm A 
and discussed the claim with them. He says this was inappropriate and has 
prejudiced his claim;
The relationship between LV and Firm A  In June 2021, LV told Mr L that, despite 
previously saying it would reconsider his claim against Firm A if he submitted a legal 
challenge from a qualified solicitor or barrister, it would now be relying on an 
exclusion for claims made against us or our agents to decline it. Mr L doesnt agree 
that Firm A were acting as an agent of LV;
Mr Ls professional negligence claim against Firm B  When Mr L asked about 
making a professional negligence claim against Firm, LV said it too would be caught 
by the exclusion for claims made against us or our agents. He said that, if LV was 
correct to say that both Firm A and Firm A were acting as its agents, this proved that 
it was a conflict of interest for Firm B to have assessed whether the claim against 
Firm A had a reasonable chance of success. It would mean that LV had effectively 
been judge in its own cause.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2022. I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls professional negligence claim against Firm A
Im not persuaded that LV has demonstrated that the exclusion for claims against us and
our agents applies to this claim. Whilst Firm A may have had a limited amount of delegated
authority from LV to handle certain tasks associated with the legal expenses insurance
claim, once the claim was accepted, they were appointed to act for Mr L (as shown by their
agreement with him, in which hes named as their client). LV simply agreed to pay Firm As
fees under the terms of Mr Ls legal expenses insurance.
Nonetheless, as with most legal expenses insurance policies, its a fundamental requirement
of Mr Ls policy that claims must have and continue to have a reasonable chance of success
to attract cover. As above, an Ombudsman decided in June 2020 that LV could fairly rely on
the barristers opinion it had obtained to conclude that Mr Ls claim didnt have a reasonable
chance of success (by the policy definition). They felt that neither Mr Ls comments nor the
comments of his pro-bono adviser outweighed the barristers opinion. Mr L still hasnt, as far
as Im aware, presented a legal challenge from a qualified solicitor or barrister to LV.
The fact that proceedings have become necessary doesnt, in itself, entitle Mr L to cover
(although it may be relevant to who should act for him if cover is subsequently engaged).
Unless he can show that his claim against Firm A enjoys a reasonable chance of success
(by presenting a legal challenge from a qualified solicitor or barrister), I dont think LV is
under any obligation to fund his legal representation. This includes the cost of mediation.
Communication between LV and Firm A
Ive reviewed two calls between LV and Firm A from 2021. LV called Firm A to ask which of
Mr Ls policies his original claim (about a road traffic accident) was funded under.
It mentioned that Mr L wanted to make a claim against Firm A for professional negligence.
It said that, if the original claim was funded under the legal expenses section of Mr Ls home
insurance policy, the claim against Firm A wouldnt be covered. Firm A asked LV to put the
information request in an email. A further call then took place in which LV asked for the
same information because of a policy exclusion that has come up.
During this latter call, Firm A said it was surprised to have received LVs email as it was
aware that Mr L had already tried to make a claim against them using his legal expenses
cover with LV in the past. Mr L says this suggests LV had also been in contact with Firm A
about the claim at some point previously (most likely in 2019 / 2020 when Firm B were
reviewing whether the claim had a reasonable chance of success).LV maintains that the only contact it had with Firm A about the claim was the two phone calls
in 2021. But, its hard to see how Firm A would have learnt that Mr L had previously tried to
make a claim against them using his legal expenses cover if not from LV. LV has also said it
doesnt know why Firm A referred to an email during the second call in 2021, because none
was sent. But it seems more likely to me that, between the two calls that took place in 2021,
LV repeated its information request by email as instructed, and that this is what Firm A were
referring to. This suggests theres probably still some correspondence Ive not seen.
Im minded to agree that, once Mr L had made LV aware he intended to make a claim
against Firm A, it wasnt appropriate for LV to have discussed that claim (or whether it would
be funded under Mr Ls legal expenses cover) with Firm A (given they were the other party to
that dispute).
In terms of the calls that took place in 2021 specifically, I dont think they were necessary.
Thats because, for the reasons Ive explained, LV hasnt persuaded me that the exclusion it
was exploring was one that it can fairly rely on. But I need to decide whether, in speaking to
Firm A about the claim, LV caused Mr L any loss that needs to be redressed.
It isnt obvious to me how the information LV shared with Firm A during the calls would have
given them an advantage over Mr L in their ongoing legal dispute with him. Firm A already
knew about Mr Ls allegations because hed sent them a letter before action in 2018. Whilst
they might have been able to establish that LV werent funding the claim under Mr Ls legal
expenses cover, I think theyd have recognised that he might challenge that decision, and /
or pursue the claim using other funding arrangements (both of which he went on to do). So,
it seems likely theyd have continued to act on the basis that Mr L would have the necessary
means to see the claim through.
Whilst Ive accepted its possible that other correspondence took place between Firm A and
LV (before and between the two calls in 2021) that Ive not seen, I havent seen evidence to
support that Firm A were aware that the claim against them had originally been declined on
the basis that it didnt have a reasonable chance of success (which might have encouraged
them to take a more robust stance in their defence of the claim, for example). The evidence
suggests that they were simply aware that Mr L had made an earlier attempt to claim against
them using his legal expenses cover. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think knowing
that, in itself, would have given Firm A an advantage over Mr L.
Furthermore, when a barrister assessed Mr Ls claim against Firm A in 2019, they said they
considered that the claims chance of success was considerably worse than 50%. So, even if
Mr L is right to say that LVs actions negatively impacted his claims chance of success, the
evidence Ive seen so far suggests that it wasnt likely to succeed anyway. Overall, Im not
satisfied that LVs correspondence with Firm A has caused Mr L a loss.
The relationship between LV and Firm A
Mr L has again referred to it being a conflict of interest for Firm B to have been involved in
his claim against Firm A. But an Ombudsman already addressed this in a final decision in
February 2021. They concluded that the fact that LV had commercial relationships with both
Firm A and Firm B, in terms of referring work to them, wasnt, in itself, a conflict of interest.
I acknowledge that, since then, LV suggested that it was relying on the exclusion for claims
made against us or our agents to decline both Mr Ls claim against Firm A and his claim
against Firm B. But, as Ive said, I dont think LV has been able to show that, while acting for
Mr L in his dispute about a road traffic accident, Firm A were acting as its agents. So, I dont
think LV did act as judge in its own cause.Mr L has also noted that when he sent LV a pre-action letter requesting reimbursement of
the cost of the mediation between him and Firm A, it was Firm B that responded on LVs
behalf. But I dont think this shows that it was a conflict of interest for Firm B to have
assessed the merits of Mr Ls claim against Firm A one year earlier.
Mr Ls professional negligence claim against Firm B
In any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to establish, on
balance, that theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. Only then does the burden of proof
switch to the insurer to demonstrate, again on balance, that a valid exclusion applies, or that
theres been a material breach of a policy condition.
The types of dispute Mr L is insured for are set out in the policy document. Hes insured for
personal injury, contract disputes, protection of property, employment and identity fraud.
The only one of those that could be relevant here is contract disputes. Mr L would need to
show that the claim directly resulted from a breach of your contract to buy or hire goods or
services for your private use.
Ive not seen any evidence that a contract exists between Mr L and Firm B that could form
the basis of a contract dispute, so Im not persuaded theres been an insured event here.
Therefore, I dont think whether Firm B were acting as LVs agent is actually material.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr Ls response to my provisional decision
Mr L said that, whilst LV originally sought to rely on the claim not having a reasonable 
chance of success as a reason to decline it, it then moved the goalposts and sought to rely 
on the exclusion for claims made against us or our agents instead. Now its been found that 
it cant fairly rely on that exclusion, it wouldnt be fair for it to revert to its original stance that 
the claim doesnt have a reasonable chance of success.
He repeated his view that it was a conflict of interest for Firm B to have assessed the merits 
of his claim against Firm A and said that another firm of solicitors should be appointed to 
review the matter afresh. He cited the fact that both firms work closely with LV. 
Finally, he said there had been an insured event. His claim ultimately arose from a road 
traffic accident and therefore falls under the cover for personal injury.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L feels that it wouldnt be fair for LV to return to its original stance that his claim against 
Firm A doesnt have a reasonable chance of success. I dont agree. 
Mr Ls policy, like virtually all before the event legal expenses insurance policies, requires a 
policyholders claim to have and continue to have a reasonable chance of success. I dont 
consider terms of this nature to be unreasonable. Court action can be expensive. A privately 
paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost of a claim if theyd been told it was unlikely 
to succeed. An insurer cant be expected to either. Whilst I may have found that LV hasnt demonstrated that the exclusion for claims made 
against us or our agents applies to Mr Ls claim against Firm A, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to direct it to fund a claim that was found by a barrister to have a considerably 
worse than 50% chance of success, and therefore wouldnt have been covered in any event. 
That wouldnt be reflective of the loss Mr L has actually suffered, or a responsible use of the 
pooled funds of which LV is custodian.
Mr L has repeated his argument that it was a conflict of interest for Firm B to have assessed 
the merits of his claim against Firm A, in particular because both firms work closely with LV. 
Im satisfied this is subject matter that was addressed in the final decision in February 2021. 
The only thing thats changed since then is that LV suggested it was relying on the exclusion 
for claims made against us or agents to decline Mr Ls claims against both firms. I thought 
about whether this was new evidence which indicated that it was a conflict of interest for 
Firm B to have assessed the merits of Mr Ls claim against Firm A. But I concluded that, 
while representing Mr L in his dispute about a road traffic accident, Firm A hadnt been 
acting as agents of LV. So, I was satisfied that LV hadnt been judge in its own cause. 
Bearing in mind the previous final decisions, Mr L will need to submit his own legal challenge 
from a qualified solicitor or barrister if hed like LV to reconsider his claim against Firm A.  
Mr L says his claim should be covered as a personal injury. I presume hes referring here to 
his claim against Firm B, which I said didnt fall under any of the insured events in his policy. 
But while his original claim (relating to the road traffic accident) may have concerned a 
personal injury, hes seeking to make a separate claim against Firm B. 
He isnt, to my knowledge, alleging they caused him an injury, but that they acted negligently 
in their assessment of the merits of his professional negligence claim against Firm A. Im still 
of the view that this doesnt fall under any of the events Mr L is insured for (personal injury, 
contract disputes, protection of property, employment and identity fraud).  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman