DRN-3218224
The complaint
Mr H complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) unfairly registered a fault 
claim against him.
What happened
Mr H had a Churchill motor insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. In November 2019, he 
told UKI that hed been involved in an accident with a third party. The following month he told 
UKI the third party had accepted liability and paid for the damage to Mr Hs car. UKI told him 
it would close the claim. 
However, in August 2021 Mr H became aware that the November 2019 accident was still 
registered as a fault claim against him on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
He says this meant hed paid over £2,000 more than necessary for insurance on his cars 
since November 2019.
UKI accepted that it hadnt closed the claim in December 2019 as it should have done. This 
meant there were open costs for a fault claim registered against Mr H. It agreed to correct 
this and offered Mr H £250 to apologise for its mistake. However, it said there were other 
claims on CUE against Mr H that hadnt been registered by UKI. So it said any impact on Mr 
Hs insurance premiums werent solely due to UKIs error.
Mr H didnt think £250 was fair compensation for the level of stress, inconvenience and 
negative financial impact that he suffered. He brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr HKs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that UKI had corrected its mistake and updated CUE. She agreed with UKI that 
there were other fault claims against Mr H, so she didnt think UKI could reasonably be held 
liable for the increases to Mr Hs premiums since December 2019. She thought its offer of 
£250 was fair.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI told us: [Mr H] has more than this claim in question logged on his CUE record. So as 
[UKIs letter to Mr H] confirms UKI cannot be held responsible for the impact all the fault 
claims have had on his premiums with other insurers.
Ive looked at UKIs internal notes about this. Its clear that:
Mr H told UKI about his accident in November 2019.
In December 2019, he told UKI that the third party had accepted liability and paid his 
costs.
A mistake by UKI meant it ordered new parts for Mr Hs car and incurred a cost. 
This cost was registered against Mr H. 
An internal email on 15 September 2021 shows UKI realised Mr H is being financially 
impacted as a result of the incorrect information on CUE and it needed to correct this. £492 
costs were registered against Mr H and his No Claims Discount was disallowed. 
However, I can see that two other fault claims were registered against Mr H as at September 
2021  one in December 2018, the other in December 2020. So I agree with UKI that its not 
possible to determine the impact of UKIs mistake on Mr Hs future premiums given the other 
two fault claims recorded against him.
Mr H has told us of his severe distress when his new insurer suddenly cancelled his motor 
insurance while a family member was very seriously ill. I am incredibly sorry to hear this and 
I send my condolences to Mr H. I can imagine this must have been a truly horrific time for 
him.
However, I dont think UKI can be held responsible for another insurer cancelling his 
insurance. While I recognise the impact of this was great, I dont agree with Mr H that UKI 
should compensate him for this.
On balance, I think UKIs response to him when he raised this in September 2021 was 
appropriate and I think its offer of £250 was fair. The accident is now correctly recorded as a 
notification only with no claims bonus allowed.
For these reasons, I think Mr Hs complaint should be partly upheld. This is because I agree 
UKI should compensate Mr H for its error, but I think its offer is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. If it hasnt already done so, UK 
Insurance Limited should pay Mr H £250 to apologise for incorrectly registering a fault claim 
against him for just under two years.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman