DRN-3706158
The complaint
Mr D complains Trading 212 UK Limited unfairly closed his account and sold his investments 
without his permission. He wants compensation for the loss he experienced.
What happened
Our investigator covered the background events that led Mr D to bring his complaint to our 
service. In summary:
Trading 212 asked Mr D for various pieces of information, which he feels he complied 
with. Part of what he provided was bank statements showing the payments deposited 
into his trading account, but with some outgoing payments redacted. Trading 212 
wasnt happy with the redactions and asked for unredacted statements. It gave him a 
deadline to provide them by. 
Mr D didnt want to provide unredacted statements. He says he didnt refuse Trading 
212s request, but he wanted to speak to someone more senior about the matter 
because he was concerned. He says some of the payments represented personal 
spend and were not relevant to Trading 212. He also found their previous 
communication to be unprofessional and disorganized, so he was worried about the 
security of his information if he provided it.
Trading 212 terminated its relationship with Mr D before its deadline. As a result, it 
closed his positions barring two. Mr D says this caused him long term investment 
losses, particularly as some investments were only available on Trading 212s 
platform.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. They concluded:
Trading 212 has legal and regulatory obligations it needs to comply with. Mr D felt 
uncomfortable providing information which showed his personal spend but Trading 
212s request for unredacted statements was reasonable. 
Mr D made losses because of his positions being sold. But Trading 212s terms and 
conditions allow it to close positions when it hasnt been provided the information it 
asked for, and to close an account immediately when its agreement has been 
breached. 
Although Trading 212 set a deadline to provide the statements, it was reasonable to 
close his positions earlier based on its interactions with Mr D.
Mr D rejected the outcome and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. His complaint 
has been given to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Trading 212 has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts 
and services to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an 
account is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its 
customer and verify the origin and sources of their income, and to prevent and detect 
financial crime. Asking for unredacted bank statements and other information is a common 
way for firms to carry out their obligations.
Mr D says he didnt want to provide unredacted statements without speaking to someone 
more senior at Trading 212. He says other investment companies had been satisfied with 
redacted statements. I appreciate he felt this way, but I dont find Trading 212s request was 
excessive, unusual, or onerous. And, I have borne in mind that Trading 212 might well have 
been entitled to require further information on reviewing unredacted statements. The 
boundaries of what it could review were not limited to information which confirmed that Mr 
Ds bank account was being used to fund his trading account or which only showed money 
crediting his bank account.
On balance, I find it was reasonable for Trading 212 to conclude Mr D was not complying 
with its request for information. It wasnt for Mr D to make his compliance conditional on 
speaking to someone more senior. Trading 212s request was legitimate and in line with its 
legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Mr D expressed concerns about Trading 212s professionalism and the security of the 
methods it wanted information sent through. I have listened carefully to what he said, but 
ultimately he provided information to Trading 212 through their website which he felt was 
safer, and he later provided information via their webchat service. Despite his unhappiness 
about different email addresses and methods of supplying information, I havent found a 
failing on Trading 212s part.
The email Mr D received which requested unredacted statements was sent from Trading 
212s compliance team and not from a named individual, which Mr D was unhappy about. 
He says this was another reason why he wanted to speak to someone more senior. But I 
dont find an email from a compliance team is inherently concerning or that it would suggest 
his information could be reviewed at random by someone not authorised to review it. So, I 
dont find his argument persuasive.
Under Trading 212s terms and conditions, it could end a relationship with a customer 
immediately if there was a breach of its terms and conditions, and it could close a customers 
investment positions. I find it was reasonable for Trading 212 to conclude that Mr D had 
breached its agreement by not providing unredacted statements. He had made his stance 
clear and in this circumstance I find Trading 212 reasonably applied its terms and conditions 
to close his positions without his consent.
Mr D said Trading 212s actions were discriminatory on the basis that a colleague of his 
wasnt asked for unredacted statements. Whether or not Trading 212 accepted redacted 
statements in relation to another customer is not something I can fairly comment on. I am 
satisfied Trading 212 can require different types of information based on their individual 
customers and their circumstances. I find Trading 212s requirements were reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ds complaint and they were not unlawful.
Mr D said Trading 212 failed to close two positions. But Trading 212 said one position 
wouldve closed sooner but Mr D cancelled the sell orders placed by their dealings team, 
and he eventually closed the position himself. It said the remaining position involves an 
equity which could not be closed due to external factors not under Trading 212s control, and 
its currently reviewing this situation. Im satisfied with the explanations its provided, and I still find it was entitled to close the positions it did, and its entitled to close the remaining position 
once this becomes possible.
Mr D is unhappy because he made a loss on his investments. Hes also unhappy Trading 
212s actions triggered tax events and further costs. But, as I find Trading 212 acted in line 
with its terms and conditions, I am not directing it to pay him compensation for losses which 
may have resulted.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman