DRN-4249873
The complaint
Mr N complains that BISL Limited (BISL) unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N says he insured his car, which he arranged through BISL. He received his policy 
documentation confirming he was covered. Shortly afterwards he received notification that 
his policy was to be cancelled. He says his premium payments were refunded in full, and he 
received £250 compensation. 
Mr N says hes now had to find alternative cover, which is much more expensive. He says 
the policy terms dont allow the business to cancel for the reason it gave. He says it should 
pay the difference in cost between his new premium and the premium it offered him.
In its final complaint response BISL says it gave Mr N 16 days notice of his policy being 
cancelled to allow him to make alternative arrangements. It says the cancellation was due to 
an error with the premium he was offered. 
Mr N thought hed been treated unfairly by BISL and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says that although BISL made a mistake with the 
premium it offered, it acted reasonably in refunding the premium in full and paying Mr N 
£250 compensation. 
Mr N disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
In its submission to our service BISL says Mr N purchased his policy online on 26 April 2023, 
with cover effective from 1 May 2023. It says that on 5 May it became aware of a pricing 
scheme error. This affected a number of newly purchased policies and renewals. It says this 
meant it offered policies, including Mr Ns policy, that were incorrectly rated resulting in 
significantly reduced premiums. 
BISL says it can withdraw cover at any point provided that it gives prior notification of 
cancelation in line with its policy terms and conditions. It says Mr N wasnt entitled to a policy 
at the significantly lower premium. 
I can see that BISL sent Mr N a notice of cancellation letter on 15 May 2023. It sent a further 
letter dated 1 June confirming the cancellation as of 31 May. 
Ive read Mr Ns policy terms and conditions. In relation to cancellation the terms say:
We may cancel your policy if there are serious grounds to do so such as non-payment, 
failure to supply requested validation documentation (proof of No Claims Discount, Security 
etc) you have provided us with incorrect information and you have failed to provide a remedy 
when requested or you behave in a threatening, abusive or inappropriate manner towards 
our staff, our representatives or providers. Where we cancel we will provide seven days' 
prior written notice to your last known address unless we are required to cancel earlier.
I acknowledge Mr Ns argument that his policy terms dont include the reason BISL gave for 
cancelling his policy. I understand his point. However, the terms say, such as before going 
on to list a number of examples of when BISL can decide to cancel a policy. I dont 
reasonably think this list is expected to be exhaustive. 
Im satisfied that the evidence shows an error was made on BISLs part when it originally 
confirmed Mr Ns cover. However, the policy being offered at the wrong price is, I think, a 
reasonable cause for cancellation. I cant see that Mr N has been caused detriment as a 
result of this. He explains that he hasnt been able to find another insurer quoting anywhere 
near the price BISL originally gave. But this supports what BISL has explained about this 
being the result of an error. I dont think the premium that was calculated in error is 
something that was available to Mr N. 
Mr N was caused some distress due to his policy being cancelled, and inconvenience when 
finding alternative cover. I think BISL should compensate him for this. But Im satisfied its 
payment for £250 is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman