DRN-1983933
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In November 1993 Mrs C applied for a store card  and Ive seen a copy of the paper 
application form she completed. She left blank the part of the form where PPI and purchase 
protection options were offered. 
In February 1994, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs C owed on her store card and 
it protected Mrs Cs store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Mrs C disagreed with out adjudicators opinion and isnt happy with the investigation. 
In summary, Mrs C is mainly concerned that she made it clear when she took out her store 
card that PPI wasnt something she wanted to have and she never signed to have PPI. So 
shes very unhappy that PPI was added to her store card. Mrs C said she never realised that 
she was paying for PPI. She told us that if shed known she had PPI then she wouldve 
made a claim on the policy when she wasnt able to work and suffered financial hardship as 
a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im sorry Mrs C has felt that our adjudicator didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly and 
that shes had concerns about some of the things our adjudicator told her as this seemed to 
be at odds with enquiries she was making.
Id like to reassure Mrs C that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know what it said to Mrs C when the policy was sold. But based on what this 
service knows about the sales process it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the 
opportunity to explain the main features of the policy to see if Mrs C wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for a few months 
without PPI, I think Mrs C wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
Its completely understandable that Mrs C has now forgotten all about this call. And Ive no 
reason to doubt that shes sure about what shes told us. But I wouldnt expect her to recall a 
phone call from such a long time ago. 
And I cant uphold this complaint just based on what Mrs C says. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where I need to. I have to be impartial. 
Looking at Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for the 
policy.
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs C decided during the course of the phone call that she 
wanted to protect her card monthly repayments and the PPI was added to her account when 
she chose to buy the policy offered. 
I dont think AXA advised Mrs C to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs C with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
The policy document from the date Mrs C took out PPI is no longer available. But Ive relied 
on a policy document which was in use quite soon afterwards  and I think its likely that in 
all main respects the policy that Mrs C took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Mrs C had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Mrs C couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. 
Mrs C couldnt remember what employment benefits she mightve had. If she didnt have any 
sick pay entitlement through work, then a policy that wouldve paid her store card while she 
was off work wouldve been of benefit to her.
Given what Mrs C has told us about her job at the time, I think its possible that she might 
have had good employment benefits  6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay for 
6 months wouldnt have been unusual for someone in her employment situation. So Ive 
thought about whether it would make any difference if shed been entitled to sick pay like 
this. But it doesnt change the outcome of her complaint. The policy wouldve paid out on top 
of sick pay if shed had any, and for as long as she was off sick providing a useful benefit at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs C needed to claim as she mightve had extra 
costs if she was ill or disabled. 
Mrs C told us she didnt have any significant other means she couldve used to cover the 
store card monthly repayments if she wasnt working. 
So I think Mrs C couldve benefitted from having the policy. 
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think having 
more information about the circumstances in which the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve 
affected her decision to take out PPI. I say this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any reasons why Mrs C wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all the policy 
benefits. So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put 
Mrs C off taking the policy out.   
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs C to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Mrs C had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy 
was a problem for Mrs C when she signed up to have it. And she took it out when she didnt 
have to, so it seems she wanted the cover. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs C off taking out 
the policy, given her situation at the time.
This means that, even if AXA didnt give Mrs C all the information it shouldve done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs C has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Mrs C has said in response 
to our adjudicators view - including what shes said about the way other claims shes seen 
on our website have been dealt with. But I am concerned here just with her complaint about 
the PPI sold with this store card. So these points dont change my conclusion.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Weve already mentioned to Mrs C that she might be able to make a backdated claim if she 
didnt make a claim on the policy when she mightve been able to do so. If she does attempt 
to claim and finds that she has concerns in this regard, then Mrs C should first tell the insurer 
why shes unhappy. And if shes unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, she may be able 
to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman