DRN-2386340
The complaint
Mr C has complained about what happened regarding his account closures with TSB Bank 
plc.
What happened
Mr C had a number of accounts with TSB. In May 2020, he requested that the funds be 
transferred to an external account, as he was closing the TSB ones. Mr C has specifically 
asked for the transfer, as he was aware the funds in his regular saver would generate 
interest. But this didnt happen - instead, TSB sent him a cheque. When he received his 
monthly statement on 12 May 2020, it showed the account had been closed on 5 May, and 
interest of £3.20 had been sent by cheque. 
Mr C complained to TSB. He explained his instructions hadnt been followed. He also said 
hed not received the cheque, but even if he had, he couldnt have deposited it, because he 
was shielding due to coronavirus.
TSB then sent Mr C two letters updating him about his complaint. He then received a letter 
which did not uphold it. So he called TBS to talk about it, and hes explained he was told 
hed be called back, but this didnt happen. Despite him calling further times, he never heard 
back. Instead, he received a letter saying he could complain to us.
Mr C did this, and asked he be paid the £3.20 interest, plus compensation for trouble and 
upset.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He was satisfied that TSB had sent 
a cheque, because Mr C didnt have any other accounts open with it, to transfer funds into. 
In such circumstances, its process is to send a cheque. This was sent to the address it had 
on file for Mr C, which is the same as the address we had, so he was satisfied it was 
reasonable for TSB to send the cheque there. Although our investigator understood Mr C 
was shielding, he also noted the cheque was valid for 12 months. Since then, Mr C has 
confirmed hes received it.
Our investigator also looked at the issue of Mr C not receiving a call back. He agreed this 
should have happened. But he thought that TSB had written to Mr C, so had provided a 
response. In the circumstances, he didnt think compensation was necessary.
Mr C disagreed. He also queried why TSB hadnt cancelled the first cheque and sent a new 
one earlier.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
 
I accept that Mr C asked for his interest to be transferred. Unfortunately, this wasnt possible, 
as he had no other open accounts with TSB. So, in line with its policy, it sent a cheque. It 
isnt responsible for Mr C not receiving this. Im glad to see hes now received a reissued 
cheque. The reason this wasnt sent before is that theres nothing to show me it was 
requested. 
Ive also looked at the issue of callbacks. Its not in dispute that Mr C didnt receive these. 
But instead he received a letter. Ive not been made aware of any reason why this 
communication wasnt appropriate, although I agree a call my often be preferable. However, 
I dont think compensation is fair. I dont agree that Mr C suffered trouble and upset sufficient 
to warrant this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman