DRN-4121140
The complaint
Ms M has complained about her mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. Ms M says the 
mortgage was paid off in 1997 but since then Santander has wrongly been taking payments 
from her. Ms M also believes that Santander has been racist in the way it has administered 
her mortgage account.
To settle the complaint Ms M would like Santander to refund all her overpayments, plus 
interest, and to terminate the monthly payment of £385.67 which she is still paying. 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in particular Santanders final response letter dated 24 December 2021, so there is no 
need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my 
decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Ms M being identified. 
Ms M has a mortgage, originally taken out with Abbey National, which later became part of 
Santander. For many years Ms M has challenged the existence of the mortgage, both with 
Santander and through our service. In a separate dismissal decision I have explained why I 
wont be looking at that part of the complaint.
Ms M believes the mortgage was repaid in 1997 and that Santander should not be taking 
payment, and that the bank should refund all payments made since then. In its final 
response letter dated 24 December 2021 Santander explained that there was an outstanding 
balance on the mortgage of (at that time) about £26,000, and that the term is due to end in 
October 2028.
After bringing the complaint to us an investigator looked at what had happened. He didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the payments Ms M had made 
hadnt been enough to pay off the mortgage.
Ms M disagreed with the investigator. She said that no payments were due, and that she had 
been the victim of racism by Santander.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from what Ms M has told us that she feels very strongly about this matter and is 
steadfast in her belief that her mortgage had been repaid. However, I am satisfied that there 
is an outstanding balance.
Ive reviewed the available account statements and Im persuaded that they are an accurate 
reflection of the payment history on the account. The statements show the payments due, 
payments made and the arrears on the account. Im also satisfied that Santanders final 
response letter dated 24 December 2021 provides an accurate history of the account and 
why and how the outstanding balance has accrued.
Its important to mention that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing 
service, and so Ive based my decision on the evidence provided by the parties. Its always 
open to Ms M to have the account audited by her own expert at her own expense. If an 
independent audit showed an error in the figures that is to Ms Ms detriment, she would be 
free to raise another complaint about that, and to include in her claim for compensation the 
cost of the audit. 
Ms M has alleged that Santander has been racist towards her in relation to the 
administration of her account. However, I have found no evidence of this. Santanders 
requests for payment are because there is an outstanding balance on the account, not, as 
Ms M claims, because of her race.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms M was hoping for. I can see from what Ms M has told us 
that she sees wrongdoing in almost everything Santander has done, or not done, over the 
years. Thats understandable when you are as close to the situation as Ms M is. But I have a 
different remit; I have to look at the evidence provided by both sides, not just listen to Ms Ms 
side of the story. And, after reviewing everything in detail, on the basis of the evidence I 
have considered, Im unable to find Santander has done anything wrong in its administration 
of the account. This means there is no basis on which I can order Santander to cease taking 
payment or to reimburse Ms M for payments shes made since 1997.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman