DRN-3484141
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that her motor insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI), sold her car after 
it was declared a total loss despite previously agreeing to her keeping the salvage. 
All references to UKI include its agents. Mrs Bs complaint was brought to us by Mr S but for 
ease I will refer to his comments as being Mrs Bs.
What happened
Mrs Bs car was damaged in a road traffic accident and deemed a total loss. Mrs B agreed 
with UKI that she would keep the salvage (the car in its damaged state) and paid the salvage 
value of £1,547.70 to it. UKI agreed to return the salvage to Mrs B on a particular date but 
after a week went by without the car being returned, Mrs B got in touch with it to find out 
what had happened. UKI said that due to an error the car had been sold and that it wouldnt 
be possible to get it back. 
Mrs B wasnt happy about this and complained. UKI apologised for the error and offered her 
£300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. It also returned the 
salvage fee back to her. 
Mrs B didnt agree with UKIs proposed resolution and complained to us. She said she 
wanted either the car back or, if that was not possible, another car of the same value.
Our investigator who looked into the complaint obtained some further information from both 
parties. Mrs B said she had intended to have the car repaired and provided us with an 
estimate from her garage who said the repairs would cost £2,100.  Mrs B said she felt she 
lost around £4,000 due to not being able to repair the car which, after the repair, would have 
been worth around £7,500.
In response to this UKI said that its own garage estimated the cost of repairs at £6,864.01, 
which is much higher than Mrs Bs garages estimate, especially bearing in mind that it has 
access to competitive rates and discounts. UKI also said that the date of the garages 
estimate was after the car was disposed of and it therefore questioned how the garage was 
able to provide a detailed quote without seeing the car. It added that even if Mrs B had 
repaired the car it would not have been worth £7,500. It said its pre accident value was 
£7,370 and that having a salvage marker on it would have reduced its value even more. 
Our investigator thought that UKI had made a mistake by selling the car and recommended 
a compensation award of £500. She didnt think any further compensation was warranted as 
UKI settled the claim in line with its policy terms which say it should pay Mrs B the market 
value of the car if it is a total loss. 
UKI didnt agree and said it didnt feel that Mrs Bs estimate should be used as a basis to 
justify the high level of compensation awarded by the investigator. It repeated that it didnt 
think that Mrs Bs estimate was accurate or realistic and said that had the repair costs been 
£2,100 the car would not have been a total loss. It added that the chassis leg needed to be 
replaced which is a significant cost in itself. It also said that it did what it was required to do 
under the policy by providing Mrs B with the market value and also said there was no 
evidence that Mrs B would have successfully sold the car. 
Mrs B also didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
said that she was expecting more than £500 compensation and also that she found out that 
someone else has repaired the car and that it was valued more than £500. She added that 
the car was not UKIs property and that it had no right to dispose of it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
I will also be making the same award and I will explain why below. 
The starting point is the policy which says that if the policyholders car is damaged, UKI will 
pay for the repairs or repair it itself; replace what is lost or damaged if its more cost effective 
than repairing it; or settle the claim by sending the policyholder a cheque or by bank transfer. 
The policy also says UKI will pay no more than the market value of the car at the time of 
the loss, less any excess. 
The market value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing your car with another of 
the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or 
loss.
UKI said the pre accident value was £7,370 and also that the salvage value was £1,545.70. 
As far as I am aware Mrs B agreed those values and also paid the salvage value to UKI so 
she could retain the salvage.
Under normal circumstances an insurer retains the salvage when a total loss claim is settled. 
Nevertheless, if a policyholder wants to keep the salvage we often think it is fair and 
reasonable for the insurer to agree to this. The policyholder then normally pays the insurer 
what the insurer would have received when disposing of the salvage. For these reasons, 
I think UKIs actions up to this point were in line with its policy terms and also fair and 
reasonable  specifically as it agreed for Mrs B to retain the salvage.
UKI has accepted that it made an error when it sold the car, after it had agreed to return it to 
Mrs B. It returned the salvage fee to Mrs B which I think was the right thing to do as it wasnt 
able to return the car itself to her. 
Nevertheless, I do think that UKIs error caused Mrs B a certain degree of distress and 
inconvenience. Mrs B said she now has to go through the trouble of finding a new car, which 
wasnt something she had planned to do. I also note that it was only after Mrs B questioned 
UKI that it came to light that the car had been sold. Also, as UKI was aware, Mrs B is a key 
worker who works shifts including nights and needs access to a car perhaps more than 
others. I think this would have added to Mrs Bs distress and inconvenience. I therefore 
agree with our investigator that £500 is appropriate in these circumstances for the distress 
and inconvenience Mrs B suffered. 
Mrs B said that she would have repaired the car for £2,100 and that she would have sold it 
for around £7,500 and therefore lost out by not being able to do that. As I said above, the 
pre accident value was agreed at £7,370 and so I think it is unlikely that the car would have been sold for £7,500 after the repairs were undertaken. I also agree with UKI that it is more 
likely than not that the car, as a former category S (structural damage which can be 
repaired) salvage car, would have been worth less after it was repaired than it was worth 
before the accident. In my experience, cars with salvage markers normally sell for less than 
equivalent cars that werent a previous total loss.   
UKI said that its own repair estimate, based on discounts and competitive rates, was 
£6,864.01 which is much higher than Mrs Bs. UKI questioned the accuracy of Mrs Bs 
garages estimate and said its unlikely the garage examined the car not least because it was 
in UKIs possession since the accident. I agree with UKI in that I also think it would have 
been difficult to provide an accurate estimate without inspecting the vehicle. Also, looking at 
the estimate itself it does not contain much detail in terms of the work required. I have also 
looked at the photographs in UKIs engineers report and I see that the damage sustained 
was quite substantial. Overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs B suffered a financial loss due to 
UKIs failure. 
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited must pay Mrs B £500 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs B £500 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman