DRN-3317488
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) handled 
matters when his hire agreement came to an end. 
Mr L is represented by Ms L but for the purposes of this decision I will refer to Mr L 
throughout as the agreement was in his name.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr L entered into a hire agreement for a new car with VWFS. It was due to 
come to an end in April 2020. In February 2020, VWFS sent a letter outlining the end of 
contract process of arranging collection of the car. 
In April 2020, Mr L contacted VWFS to say the car was due to be collected upon delivery of 
a new car that hed ordered but this couldnt take place due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
VWFS advised their collection activity was temporarily suspended and Mr L should continue 
insuring the existing car. He was told when the lockdown ends, he should contact their 
collection agents, who I will refer to as B.
Thereafter, Mr L said he had attempted to contact B and VWFS to arrange collection but 
without success. B said they had tried to contact Mr L by phone and letter and but received 
no response. As no contact was made between the two parties, the account was referred 
back to VWFS. In July 2020, VWFS sent a letter to Mr L stating if he didnt contact them to 
arrange collection of the car, he would continue to incur charges for extra days hire. No 
response was received by Mr L.
In August 2020, Mr L contacted VWFS. He said he had been trying to arrange for the car to 
be collected since March 2020. At this time, it came to light that he had a new address and 
telephone number so VWFS updated their records. By this time, VWFS had instructed 
another agent, who I will refer to as G to trace and collect the car. The car was eventually 
collected and inspected in September 2020. Mr L complained.
VWFS said attempts were made by B and themselves to contact him but no response was 
received so they had to employ another agent (G) to trace and collect the car, they referred 
to this as a legal collection but said it wouldnt be recorded on Mr Ls credit file. They also 
said Mr L hadnt made them aware of his new contact details and it was his responsibility to 
do so. They reiterated Mr L was required to pay £146 for excess mileage and £1,086 for 107 
days of extra days hire.
Mr L disputed the charge for the extra days hire and said he had been trying to arrange the 
collection for some time and he hadnt received any communication from VWFS or B. VWFS 
said 42 days of extra hire had been waived due to Covid related lockdown, specifically 23 
March (start of the lockdown) to 4 May 2020 which is when collections resumed. However 
they said he would be charged for the days following this period up to when the car was 
collected.
 
Unhappy with their response, Mr L referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They said B and VWFS had tried to contact Mr L 
without success and it was Mr Ls responsibility to update his contact details but there was 
no evidence this happened therefore VWFS couldnt be held responsible for this.
Mr L disagreed. In summary he said: 
- He had sent an email to VWFS around May 2019 with his new contact details;
- He had entered into a new agreement with VWFS in March 2020 and that showed 
his correct contact details so they shouldve been aware of this;
- He had sent an email to VWFS in April 2020 providing his new contact number;
- G had inputted an entry on his credit file when tracing the car.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
 
Prior to the agreement coming to an end, VWFS sent a letter to Mr L in February 2020. Ive 
reviewed this letter and its clear the onus was on him to contact B to make the necessary 
arrangements for collection and he could do this either by phone or online. However I 
understand a short time thereafter, collections were temporarily suspended due to the 
pandemic.
Mr L has maintained from the outset it was always his intention to return the car and he said 
he had tried to contact VWFS and B about the same without success. On the other hand, 
according to B they had tried to contact him by phone and they had sent letters in March, 
June and July 2020 and VWFS sent a final chaser in July 2020. Its clear Mr L didnt receive 
these correspondence as they were sent to his old address and B had his old telephone 
number. 
I agree with the investigator, as per the agreement terms I find it was Mr Ls responsibility to 
let VWFS know he had changed address and additionally provided his new contact details 
such as his telephone number. Mr L said he did so by email in May 2019. He was unable to 
provide a copy of the email as he no longer had access to the account but he provided the 
email address it was sent from. Our service provided this to VWFS and they checked their 
records but they were unable to find evidence of this email. Having reviewed VWFS contact 
notes there is no evidence of Mr L providing his new contact details in 2019 so I cant say 
they were aware he had moved. It appears the earliest this came to light was in August 2020 
when Mr L complained about delays to collect the car. 
Mr L has provided evidence of a new agreement with VWFS in March 2020 and I can see it 
shows his updated contact details. Because of this, he believes VWFS ought to have been 
aware of his new address and contact details. I can understand why he would feel this way 
and its unfortunate this wasnt identified by VWFS but to be fair to them as both his number 
and address had changed its likely their system wouldnt readily pick this up and identify it 
was the same consumer. 
That said, although Im not persuaded Mr L told VWFS about his new address concerning 
this agreement until August 2020, I do find he did provide his new telephone number in April 
2020 when he initially contacted VWFS about returning the car. However it would appear VWFS failed to update their records to reflect this, had they done so, I believe this situation 
may have been avoided. I say this because had Mr Ls telephone number been updated, this 
correct number wouldve been given to B and its most likely they wouldve called him and 
providing they were able to speak to him, they wouldve been able to arrange collection. 
Although I acknowledge had they not been able to speak to him, they wouldve sent letters 
and that wouldve been sent to the old address. 
Mr L said he had been trying to arrange collection of the car since March 2020 but following 
his call in April 2020, I cant see any further communication with VWFS or contact with B. 
However he has provided evidence of an email sent to B in August 2020 which Ive read and 
it makes reference to attempts to call them on numerous occasions to arrange collection of 
the car but not being able to get through. While this may have been the case, I believe it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr L to have tried to contact VWFS by phone and/or email if 
he had difficulty contacting B sooner than August 2020.
As VWFS nor B were able to speak to Mr L, they instructed G to carry out a legal collection. . 
I appreciate Mr L was unhappy that VWFS had instructed these secondary agents but I think 
VWFS action were reasonable as all their previous communication attempts had proven 
unsuccessful. Overall, while I find there were faults on both sides, I believe the main reason 
why there was a delay in collecting the car was due to Mr L failing to provide his new 
address and contact details to VWFS.
Mr L is also unhappy that G added an entry on his credit file in their attempt to locate him. Mr 
L has provided a copy of his full credit report and I can see there is a trace enquiry record 
inputted by G in August 2020 and this has been recorded as a soft search. Soft searches 
arent visible to companies therefore it doesnt impact on ones credit score therefore I agree 
with VWFS comments that this entry has no reporting impact. For this reason, I dont believe 
VWFS need to take any further action in relation to this point. 
Extra days hire
Due to the car not being returned, VWFS said Mr L needs to pay £1,086 for 107 days of 
extra hire. They have already excluded the days that related to Covid which I consider to be 
fair as this was an unprecedented event. As explained above, I dont believe the delay in 
collecting the car was VWFS fault. I find the main reason for why the delay was because Mr 
L hadnt told them about his new contact details including his address. The car was in Mr Rs 
possession longer than the contract permits so I believe VWFS are entitled to charge for the 
extra days hire.
Lastly, I understand Mr L also disputes the cost for excess mileage. However it doesnt 
appear he complained about this specific issue to VWFS meaning they havent had the 
opportunity to investigate this therefore I wont provide any further comment on this particular 
point. This would need to be raised a separate complaint to VWFS if Mr L chooses to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman