DRN-3336490
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) has unfairly declined 
his claim for storm damage to his roof under his buildings insurance policy. He would like the 
claim paid.
What happened
On 31 October 2021 there were very strong winds which Mr B says was reported on local 
news as a tornado. He says his roof was damaged with ridge tiles lifted and several slates 
were missing making a hole in the roof immediately beneath. He called Gresham the same 
day but says the call was disconnected, so he logged a claim online. Mr B says no one 
contacted him until three days later when Greshams contractor (who Ill call H) called him. It 
said it wouldnt able to inspect the damage for another two or three days. Mr B said as he 
hadnt heard anything, hed already arranged for a roofer to come the next day as he was 
concerned about the hole and the potential for further damage if it rained. 
H attended on 3 November 2021 after repairs had been made. It said the damage was a 
result of Age Wear Tear and should be declined. Gresham advised Mr B whilst it agreed 
there had been a storm with strong winds of up to 55 mph. But said it wouldnt be paying the 
claim due to wear and tear on the roof which had highlighted existing problems with it.
Mr B complained about the decision, saying his neighbours roof, which was relatively new, 
had also been damaged with ridge tiles displaced. Gresham rejected his complaint. It agreed 
the neighbours roof had also been damaged. But said Mr Bs roof was at the end of its life, 
required replacement and all the damage was maintenance related, which it the policy didnt 
cover. It said H had advised there were slipped slates due to nail fatigue and 14 lead tabs 
were visible, which were a temporary repair. It said photographs from Google street view 
from 2020 showed pretty much identical damage as now. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and said Gresham was accusing him of fraud by 
saying the storm hadnt caused a hole in his roof and it should compensate him for this.
Our investigator looked into it and said the complaint should be upheld.
He said it was clear there had been a storm with winds strong enough to damage property. 
And he thought the damage visible on Mr Bs photographs were consistent with storm 
damage. He said whilst Mr Bs roof was old the onus was on Gresham to show that wear 
and tear was the main cause of the damage rather than the storm itself and he didnt think it 
had. He said the report from H was lacking in detail and evidence that there was nail 
fatigue. He said Mr B had acted reasonably in repairing the damage and mitigating any 
further loss.
Our investigator said a Google street view from 2018 showed the roof to be in near identical 
condition as in 2020. He said this was evidence that the roof was in reasonable condition 
before the storm. He said Gresham should pay Mr Bs repair costs and add interest at 8% 
p.a. He said hed seen no evidence that Gresham was concerned about fraud and Mr B had 
agreed that the inconvenience hed suffered wasnt significant enough to award 
compensation. 
Mr B accepted our investigators view saying his roof hadnt been damaged by subsequent 
storms, but Gresham disagreed. It made further points about the condition of the roof and 
the requirement for maintenance. Our investigator said his view hadnt changed.
As Gresham doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why. Buildings insurance policies dont 
usually cover all eventualities. What is and isnt covered is set out in the policy Terms and 
Conditions (T&Cs). Mr Bs policy doesnt cover wear and tear and requires that the property 
is kept in good order, which are common exclusions and conditions in this type of policy. 
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim as Gresham has done, the 
onus is on it to justify the decision. But I dont think the evidence available does so.
When our service considers a complaint about a storm claim, there are three main issues we 
consider.
First, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? There isnt any dispute over this, there was a dry storm with strong 
winds gusting to 55 mph. 
Second, is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
Third, were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
As there is some dispute over the second and third questions, I need to consider whether 
the damage to the roof is typical of a storm, and that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage as Mr B thinks, or whether the damage was as a result of wear and tear and 
maintenance issues as Gresham say.
The report from H is very brief and was based on an inspection after the damage Mr B has 
claimed for had been repaired. Theres no indication in the report that B accessed the roof 
for a close inspection to support its conclusions. The only evidence of the roofs condition 
immediately after the storm are Mr Bs photographs, which show lifted ridge tiles and missing 
slates beneath. Gresham accepts that the neighbouring property with a much newer roof 
also suffered damage to its ridge tiles in the same storm. 
Gresham has focused on the condition of the roof below the ridge tiles saying:
nail fatigue is evident, so therefore any wind could uplift all the tiles, had they been 
in a good state of repair they would have withstood the wind.
Immediately beneath the loosened ridge tiles is a hole, Gresham says a one-off storm 
would:
not cause a hole to appear in the roof but would lift tiles or the roof itself, but not 
cause a hole in one incident.
And that this would have only happened over time and was due to lack of maintenance, but I 
dont agree. The hole has a regular outline from several missing slates. With the ridge tile 
sitting on top of these slates displaced it doesnt appear that there was anything to prevent 
the slates being lifted or torn away if caught by a strong wind. 
The slates where the ridge tiles havent been lifted dont appear to have slipped, slippage 
being an indication of nail fatigue. Those that have and are supported by the lead tabs 
referred to by H, are lower down on the roof, but Mr B hasnt claimed for damage to that 
area. Had the slates been missing for anything but a very short time the property would have 
suffered significant additional damage, but Mr B hasnt reported any. I think Mr B acted 
reasonably in repairing the roof without delay when it seemed Gresham wouldnt be able to 
attend promptly. It is a requirement of the T&Cs that Mr B:
must take all reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage and keep 
the insured property in good condition
I think some of Bs conclusions are drawn from comparing photographs on street view from 
2020 and then after the repairs had been carried out. Another street view from 2018 shows 
the roof in very similar condition. I think this shows whilst there is some evidence of wear 
and tear the roof was in a good enough state of repair to withstand normal weather for 
several years after. This, together with the newer neighbouring roof also being damaged, 
leads me to conclude that it its more likely than not that the primary cause of the damage 
was the storm rather than wear and tear. 
So, I dont think that Gresham has treated Mr B fairly in declining his claim. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Gresham suspected the claim was fraudulent. It has sought to apply 
an exclusion in the policy T&Cs, but I dont think this was reasonable in this case. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think its fair that Gresham should settle the claim by paying Mr Bs 
repair costs. It should add interest at 8% per year simple from the date he paid these costs 
until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited.
I direct Gresham Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Bs claim by paying him the cost of 
his repairs with the addition of interest at 8% per year simple from the date he paid these 
costs until the date of settlement.
If Gresham Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It 
should also give a certificate showing this if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman