DRN-3858037
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy a storm damage claim he made under his home insurance policy has been
declined by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
In January 2022 both Mr Bs main house roof and garage roof suffered damage during bad
weather. Mr B contacted QIC, his home insurance provider, to make a claim.
A surveyor was appointed who concluded there was storm damage to the main roof tiles,
and that the garage roof sheets had been ripped off by the wind. However, they said
windspeeds at the time were 44mph which wasnt a storm as defined in the policy. But there
were also recorded windspeeds of between 70mph-81mph relatively close to Mr Bs area.
So, the claim was referred back to QIC to consider further.
QIC let Mr B know that theyd be accepting his claim and paying for temporary and
permanent repairs. However, this decision was then overturned internally by QIC and Mr Bs
claim was declined.
QIC said there werent storm conditions. They also said they would expect to see more
damage to the garage roof sheets, so this indicated they werent correctly attached. They
also said the main roof tiles had slipped from their fixings due to deterioration. As poor
workmanship, gradual damage and wear and tear are excluded from Mr Bs policy, QIC
declined the claim. But, QIC recognised there had been delays and Mr B had been given the
wrong claim decision previously, so they offered £125 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with the claim decision, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and she said the weather at the time did amount to storm
conditions - and considerably in excess of those windspeeds determined by QIC. She said
she believed the garage roof sheets had damage consistent with storm damage, and that
the storm was the main cause.
Therefore, our investigator said QIC should cover the costs of repairs if Mr B had already
had them completed, with 8% interest added, or that QIC should carry out repairs. She also
recommended QIC increase the compensation from £125 to £200 and send Mr B written
confirmation the claim had been accepted.
QIC didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision. I reached broadly the same outcome on part of the complaint 
as our investigator, but I also considered some additional points that hadnt been addressed 
previously. So, I issued a provisional decision to given both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my initial findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached the same overall outcome as our 
investigator surrounding the garage roof. However, our investigator didnt consider 
the additional damage to the main roof, or the reported damage to Mr Bs car.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Mr Bs policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
a. a gale of Force of 10 or above (as defined under the internationally 
recognised Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55mph; or
b. torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
c. snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
d. hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
QIC say there werent storm conditions at the time of the damage. They said the wind
speeds didnt exceed 44mph and therefore the storm definition under Mr Bs policy 
hasnt been met.
Our investigator checked the weather records using both systems we have available, 
and these also gave weather data in close proximity to Mr Bs home. These records 
showed the windspeeds on the date of loss were ranging from 66mph to 83mph. 
Having seen the data using the systems we have available (which has also been 
sent to QIC by the investigator), Im satisfied that there was a storm, as defined in 
Mr Bs policy, on the date of loss. Therefore, this satisfies question one above.
And in relation to question two above, this type of damage to a garage and main roof 
could be caused by a storm. So, this potentially satisfies point two.
Along with saying there werent storm conditions (which I dont agree with), QIC 
declined the garage roof damage on the basis they say the roof sheets werent 
correctly attached and therefore poor workmanship was carried out. So QIC are 
saying the storm wasnt the main cause of damage (question three above).Mr Bs policy excludes:
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials 
(including latent defects) or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists 
but only causes a problem at a later stage under certain conditions).
Ive considered the surveyor report and images provided by QIC, along with the 
additional images taken by Mr B (which were also sent to QIC by the investigator). 
Having done so, Im not persuaded QIC has shown the above exclusion applies here.
The report from QICs inspecting surveyor says:
On inspection of the garage roof area the policy holder has had a membrane 
fitted to the roof area so we are unable to examine the OSB roofing boards 
but based on the photograph supplied by the policy holder there appears to 
be no damage boards only the steel profile roofing sheets that were ripped of 
(sic) the roof along with the perimeter profile. Inside the garage the ceiling has 
rock wool insulation fitted between the roof beams and this is soaking wet and 
needing replaced as well.
And it then goes on to say (after also briefly mentioning roof tiles  which Ill consider
separately below):
We can confirm that the damage is consistent with that of storm damage. 
However, the reported wind conditions on the day of the reported incident 
have been reported as 44mph so we submit our report for consideration as 
other area on this day within the region were recorded as 81mph 24 miles 
away.
As the reported wind speeds for the day of the reported peril are 44mph and 
do not meet the required wind speeds for storm damage we submit the report 
for in house review as reported wind speeds elsewhere have been in excess 
of 70mph.
So, from this, it seems that the surveyor was satisfied the damage was consistent 
with storm damage (aside from the weather conditions which Ive talked about 
above). However, this was then overturned by QIC internally. They said there are no 
signs of tear or stress to the corrugated sheets which indicates they werent held on 
correctly and the fixings werent adequate.
However, I agree with our investigator. The images clearly show distorted holes in 
the roof sheeting where the fixings were previously in situ. It looks like the roof has 
been pulled from the fixings by the storm conditions at the time, which has then left 
the distorted holes. And the panels themselves are suffering distortion too. I dont 
agree with QIC when they say the fact there isnt damage to the boards below shows 
there was poor workmanship to the panels. In fact, the perimeter edges of the below 
material have also suffered damage at the same time.
So, Im not minded to agree with QICs later view that the roof panels werent 
correctly attached, or the damage was as a result of poor workmanship. I dont think 
the surveyor report and images provided support QICs later conclusions either. 
Instead, the surveyor concluded it was consistent with storm damage.Having taken everything into account, Im minded to conclude QIC needs to deal with 
Mr Bs storm damage claim for his garage roof in line with the remaining policy terms. 
If any cash settlement is made for repairs already carried out, 8% simple interest 
needs to be added from the date Mr B paid the invoice to date of settlement.
Mr Bs main roof also suffered damage during the storm. QIC declined this part of the 
claim  again following internal review. They said the tiles have slipped due to a 
deterioration of the fixings, rather than as a result of the storm. So QIC relied on the 
following exclusion in Mr Bs policy:
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
- wear and tear;
- fall in value over time;
- gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not);
- exposure to sunlight to atmospheric conditions;
- normal settlement;
- warping or shrinkage;
- rusting or corrosion;
- wet or dry rot (regardless of the cause);
- fungus, mildew or mould;
- infestation (for example by vermin); and
- costs that arise from using or maintaining your building and contents 
normally.
However, QICs surveyor report and images from the inspection dont support that 
the tiles have slipped due to a deterioration of their fixings. Instead, the images show 
displaced tiles, and no reference to, or visible evidence of, the fixings being 
deteriorated. And the surveyor report (who actually attended) also concluded:
The damager (sic) to the house roof is to the rear of the property where a 
number of slates have been ripped away from the roof and needing to be 
replaced.
It then goes on to say, as Ive also quoted above:
We can confirm that the damage is consistent with that of storm
As there hasnt been anything provided which demonstrates the cause of damage is 
the result of deterioration of the tiles fixings, the surveyor originally concluded it was 
consistent with storm damage, the images support that, and there were storm 
conditions at the time, Im minded to conclude QIC also need to deal with this part of 
Mr Bs storm damage claim in line with the remaining policy terms. If any cash 
settlement is made for repairs already carried out, 8% simple interest needs to be 
added from the date Mr B paid the invoice to date of settlement.
Mr B has also said damage was caused to his car by the debris from the roof. QIC 
said that there isnt cover under Mr Bs policy for that, so he would need to approach 
his car insurance.
Ive had a look at Mr Bs policy terms and cant see that this would be covered. 
Therefore, I dont think that QIC was unreasonable in declining this part of Mr Bs 
claim and directing him towards his car insurance.QIC offered Mr B £125 compensation for delays and giving him incorrect information 
during his claim. However, for the reasons outlined, Im minded to conclude QIC 
acted unfairly when declining the main and garage roof damage. Its clear this has 
caused Mr B distress and inconvenience as a result of that  incorrect in my view - 
claim decision and I dont think the compensation already offered is reasonable for 
that.
Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, in 
addition to the £125 compensation already offered by QIC, Im minded to direct QIC 
to pay Mr B a further £100 compensation taking the total to £225.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct QIC to deal with Mr Bs garage 
and main roof storm damage claim in line with the remaining policy terms. I said if any cash 
settlement was made for repairs already carried out, then 8% simple interest should be 
added from the date Mr B paid the invoice to the date of settlement. And, I said I was minded 
to direct QIC to pay a further £100 compensation, taking the total amount to £225.
The responses to my provisional decision
QIC didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline.
Mr B responded. He said that by the time he had managed to source funds to arrange 
repairs, and the temporary cover had been removed, the roof sheets had suffered damage. 
He said by that point, the cost of materials had also risen.
Mr B also said that his car had been off the road for the winter, and insurance is only a 
requirement whilst it is used on the road. He says that whilst it was insured, he doesnt see 
why he should have to claim under his car insurance and potentially lose 13 years no claims 
discount for something which wasnt his fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons.
I note Mr Bs comments about the repairs he completed, and the costs incurred. As I said in 
my provisional decision, unless anything changed as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision (which it hasnt), then Id be directing QIC to deal with Mr Bs garage 
and main roof claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, hell need to liaise directly with QIC so they can deal with 
his claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. If ultimately Mr B is unhappy with the 
settlement offered by QIC, hed need to raise a new complaint about that with QIC in the first 
instance. But at this stage, Im only directing QIC to deal with the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, the quantum itself for the claim doesnt form part of this complaint.I also note Mr Bs comments that he doesnt see why he should potentially lose 13 years no 
claims discount from his car insurance due to damage which is no fault of his own. However, 
the damage to his car also isnt the fault of QIC, instead it is as a result of the storm which 
occurred. And as the damage to Mr Bs car isnt covered under his policy with QIC, and they 
arent responsible for the damage which occurred, I cant reasonably direct them to cover the 
cost of the damage outside of the terms of Mr Bs policy.
Neither party provided anything which led me to depart from the provisional conclusions I 
reached, so my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
Deal with Mr Bs garage and main roof storm damage claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
If any cash settlement is made for repairs already carried out, 8% simple interest 
needs to be added from the date Mr B paid the invoice to date of settlement.
Pay Mr B a further £100 compensation, taking the total compensation to £225.
*If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman