DRN-1627360
The complaint
Ms P complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
declining her part of her claim under a private health insurance policy. She wants all the 
physiotherapy sessions paid.
What happened
Ms P had the benefit of a group private health insurance policy with AXA provided through 
her employer. She made a claim for the costs of double sessions of physiotherapy, 
undertaken following an operation on her ankle. AXA declined the claim in part  it would 
only pay for single sessions. Ms P provided evidence from her surgeon and the 
physiotherapist, who both said one hour sessions (double) were required as half hour 
sessions wouldnt allow Ms P to regain strength in her ankle as quickly as possible. Ms P 
also explained that the longer sessions were needed in order to break down the stiffness to 
enable mobilisation of the ankle for the therapy.
AXAs clinical team reviewed the claim but felt the reason for double sessions was because 
of Ms Ps age and her wish to regain her level of fitness prior to the operation. AXA said 
double sessions werent medically necessary but paid for single sessions.
Ms P complained to AXA. It said the policy wasnt designed to cover all possible claims or 
replace the NHS. AXA said it only covered treatment that was medically necessary; it didnt 
cover treatment that was a personal choice and wasnt medically necessary. AXA said that it 
believed the double sessions were Ms Ps choice to improve more quickly and there wasnt 
evidence it would improve the outcome. AXA said it would consider funding more sessions a 
week if the physiotherapist said it was medically necessary, but not double sessions on the 
same day.
Ms P complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. 
The policy didnt say that no payment would be made for more than one session on one area 
of the body on the same day. The investigator noted that Ms P had provided evidence that 
double sessions were medically necessary. Both the surgeon and the physiotherapist had 
given evidence that Ms P was suffering particularly from stiffness and there were benefits 
from double sessions. She thought AXA had unreasonably ignored the evidence before it 
and in any event, it wasnt prejudiced by double sessions if it was willing to fund more than 
one session a week instead. The investigator said that AXA should refund the unpaid 
physiotherapy sessions, together with interest.
AXA disagreed. It said it would like to see more medical records about Ms P and didnt 
authorise any physiotherapy after the surgery was carried out. AXA also referred to a study 
carried out 13 years ago and said double sessions wasnt conventional practice, but the 
investigator pointed out that the study didnt deal with the issue of the length of sessions and 
didnt carry more weight than the views of those treating Ms P. AXA said it took advice and 
did consider the evidence before it before declining part of Ms Ps claim and wasnt happy 
about the cost of the sessions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of the policy does exclude claims for treatment that isnt medically 
necessary, but theres no reference at all to only paying for one single session on one area 
of the body in one day  this seems to be an internal policy not disclosed to the consumer in 
advance. I dont think its fair or reasonable to apply an undisclosed policy to decline a claim, 
and I dont think AXA has engaged reasonably or fairly with the medical necessity point.
Ms P has provided evidence from a consultant surgeon and a qualified physiotherapist. Both 
have said that they see a value in the double sessions. The surgeon described them as an 
essential part of recovery. Both medical professionals have explained that Ms P suffered 
from a significant level of stiffness; Ms P explained further to AXA that its necessary to 
release the stiffness to mobilise the ankle to enable the treatment  this takes time. In 
contrast, AXA has provided no medical evidence at all as to why theres no benefit in the 
double sessions; it has just quoted its internal policy  it shouldve gathered any further 
evidence it needed before declining the claim. I dont think this is reasonable and Ms P has 
shown evidence that two medical professionals see the double sessions as necessary. 
AXAs view that Ms P wish to become more active is a matter of personal choice is 
unreasonable  insurers generally wish to see an improvement as soon as possible to curtail 
ongoing claims. And given that it was willing to fund more sessions within the week to avoid 
double sessions (if the physiotherapist so advises), AXAs position in relation to Ms P and 
the double sessions is even more unfair  it isnt likely to suffer a financial loss if it funds 
double sessions in these circumstances, while the treatment is likely to last longer (and be 
more difficult for Ms P to attend) if the sessions are split over the week (and ignores the 
professional advice sent to AXA).
I note that there are limits to the number of sessions covered by the policy if referred by a 
GP, but as Ms P was referred by a specialist, AXA in its call with Ms P confirmed that there 
was no limit, other than the sessions must be medically necessary. I note AXA is now saying 
that it didnt authorise the therapy after the operation and is unhappy about the cost, but I 
think its waived the right to raise this issue by paying for single sessions and not raising this 
issue at a much earlier stage. It also wouldnt be fair or reasonable to refuse to pay on this 
basis as AXA told Ms P in a call she could have as many sessions as were medically 
necessary and didnt tell her the sessions werent authorised. Im also not persuaded that 
double sessions of physiotherapy arent conventional practice  theyre simply an extended 
session, not an experimental treatment.
I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to refund the unpaid element of the double 
physiotherapy sessions and pay interest.
Putting things right
AXA should repay the unpaid element of the double physiotherapy sessions. It should pay 
8% simple interest a year from the date Ms P paid for the sessions until the date of refund. 
AXA should pay this money to Ms P within 28 days of being notified she has accepted this 
final decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should pay 
the outstanding physiotherapy claims, together with interest as outlined above. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my 
decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman