DRN-3686483
The complaint
Mr A complains that TM Advances Limited irresponsibly lent him money on a high cost loan
that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
TM Advances provided Mr A with a loan of £3,000 on 10 September 2018. The monthly 
instalment was £249, to be repaid over 40 months. Mr A advised that the loan was fully 
repaid by February 2022. He complained to TM Advances that he couldnt afford the loan, 
and got behind on the payments for it and this affected his credit rating.
TM Advances said that it assessed his monthly income at £5,500, that he had maintained 
his credit payments and had a reasonable explanation for a credit card and a loan which 
had been in default. That loan was actually with TM Advances and only had two payments 
remaining. It assessed that he was able to afford the loan.
Mr A provided bank statements from a current account for the three months prior to the 
loan being taken out
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator advised that Mr As monthly 
income wasnt £5,500 as assessed but from his bank statements appeared to be around
£2,000 a month. In that event his income wasnt sufficient to afford living expenses on top of 
his credit commitments and the new loan payments.
TM Advances disagreed with the assessment and asked to review Mr As bank 
statements. These were provided to it but it hasnt explained how it assessed his income.
The matter was passed to me for further consideration. On reviewing Mr As bank
statements I noted that he received two salary payments a month averaging out at about
£3,876 a month. Mr A has agreed with these figures 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that despite Mr A having a high ratio of credit 
commitments against income, he would have had sufficient monthly income to easily afford
the loan. I invited Mr As comments on this and sight of statements relating to another 
account. 
I provisionally found that TM Advances reasonably assessed that Mr A was able to
afford the loan.
TM Advances hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Mr A responded, pointing out that the calculation of his outgoings at the time of the 
application showed that his income was fully committed to maintenance payments, debt 
repayments and rent without taking into account his living expenses. So he couldnt have 
afforded the loan repayments. He has also provided a copy of a statement from his bank 
savings account for the period February to June 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr A would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required TM Advances to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr As ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so TM Advances had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make 
any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TM Advances to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Mr A had relatively high credit commitments. He had two credit cards with balances totalling
around £5,000. He had a further credit card which was in default with a balance of over
£8,200. He also had two loans for which he was paying total monthly instalments of around
£570. He had a further loan which was with TM Advances that was marked as being in
default. Nevertheless it was noted that he had been paying full instalment payments on the
loan since 2017, of £297. According to TM Advances notes he had two more instalments to 
pay on that loan. However Ive not seen a credit report from the time Mr A took out the loan,
so Ive had to rely on TM Advances figures.
As Ive said Mr As monthly income at the time was said to be £5,500. I dont know where 
that figure came from, or if it was independently verified. As Ive also said his income from 
his bank statements appeared to be around £3,876 a month. The new loan was for a 
holiday, so no loans were due to be paid off. Based on 5% payments of the balances on 
the credit cards each month, and the new loan instalment Mr As credit commitments would 
have amounted to 44.3% of his income, a high figure, and an indication that Mr A might not 
have been able to afford the loan. However, taking into account that the outstanding loan 
only had two payments left, this figure would decrease to about 37%, which in my view is 
still high.
Ive considered what disposable income Mr A would have likely had left each month after 
paying the new loan instalment. His living and housing expenses were assessed at £1,650 
a month. This would have left him with around £500 a month and a further £297 when the 
old TM Advances loan was paid up.
Also on reviewing Mr As bank statements, Ive noted regular payments to and from 
another account in his name. The payments out mostly consisted of his transferring some 
of his salary payments to that account. But, for the three months for which Ive seen the 
bank statements on average he was receiving about £1,100 a month more into his account 
than he was paying into the other account. This would seem to indicate another source of 
regular income and/or savings, though I should emphasise that I havent seen any 
statements for that second account. However on the face of it, despite Mr A having a high 
ratio of credit commitments against income, he would have had sufficient monthly income 
to easily afford the loan. I would however invite Mr As comments on this and sight of 
statements relating to his other account.
My provisional finding is that TM Advances reasonably assessed that Mr A was able to
afford the loan.
Mr M has advised that out of his monthly income of £3,876 he had to pay £1,500 
maintenance and child maintenance. He had to pay rent of £750, utilities of £150 and other 
expenses, including his loan repayments, of £1,425. This meant his income was fully 
committed before taking into account any living expenses.
Bearing in mind that the new loan was said to be for a holiday it is a little surprising that Mr A 
would have committed himself to paying out a further £249 a month with that sort of income 
and expenditure. I have to refer back to the details of his outgoings as set out in the 
documents produced by TM Advances. Its been noted already that the £5,500 figure for 
income was wrong, possibly that was a gross figure which does accord roughly with the net 
figure Mr A actually received every month. As to his outgoings, whilst the income and credit 
payments can be independently verified, things like living expenses very much depend on 
what is declared by the applicant. On the affordability document produced by TM Advances, there is no mention of maintenance, child or otherwise. So I can only assume that TM 
Advances provided the loan based on the information provided to it in the loan application 
and it wasnt made aware of the maintenance payments. 
I have considered whether TM Advances should have asked for further information on 
Mr As finances, bearing in mind he had an overdraft on his current account. But I do note 
that that overdraft reduced from £1,981 in July 2018 to £995 in August. 
Mr A has provided us with a copy of the statement on his bank savings account for the 
period February to June 2018. The balance on that account as of 2 May 2018 was £2,000 
and as of 25 June 2018, £3,650. The account mainly consists of transfers to and from Mr As 
current account, and some payments to his father. There were also substantial sums paid in 
by cash over the period covered by the statements. I have to assume that the savings 
account was available to Mr A to pay any debts. The rules Ive set out above do say that the 
loan provider can take into account income and/or savings when deciding whether the 
applicant can afford a loan.
So the new information hasnt persuaded me to change my provisional findings. I think, on 
the basis of the figures declared by Mr A to TM Advances and on the basis of the income 
and savings shown in his accounts it acted reasonably in deciding he could afford the loan.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman