DRN-3978117
The complaint
Miss T complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAISL) referred 
her to an accident management company (AMC) for credit hire, without explaining the 
options available to her, when her car was damaged.
What happened
Miss T bought her motor insurance policy through an insurance broker - AAISL. She was 
involved in an accident on 8 July 2021 and called AAISL, to make a claim under her motor 
insurance policy. Miss T was asked for the details of the accident which she gave, AAISL 
arranged for her repairs to be dealt with by her insurer who Ill refer to as A then passed 
her to the AMC for a hire car. She says she wasnt given a choice in this, and the AMCs role 
wasnt properly explained to her.
Miss Ts car was repaired in August and the AMC provided her with a hire car throughout the 
repairs.
A and the AMC werent initially able to get a response from the third party insurer (TPI) 
regarding their outlay. Then the TPI disputed liability, and the matter was eventually 
presented to court to be settled. 
Miss T was worried, if liability wasnt found in her favour, she would be left to pay for hire car 
costs that she would never have faced if she had been provided with a courtesy car  as she 
thought she had been. So, she complained to AAISL. They accepted they did not provide 
her with her options prior to referring her to the AMC. They also accept they didnt tell her 
what the AMCs role was, but said they were acting in her best interests. 
Miss T wasnt satisfied with this response and so brought her complaint to this service. While 
Miss Ts complaint was being investigated the liability dispute was settled in Miss Ts favour 
and it was confirmed she is not being pursued for the hire car costs.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ts complaint though and asked AAISL to pay Miss T £200 for 
worry caused to her and explained she didnt think AAISL had acted in Miss Ts best 
interests when referring her to the AMC as:
AAISL were obliged to provide Miss T with clear, fair and not misleading information, 
meaning she should have been presented with a balanced view of her options so she 
could make an informed choice about how she wanted to move forward. And they 
didnt do this  they didnt provide her with any options at all.
At the time of the referral, there had been no admission of guilt from the other driver 
or the TPI, so there was a risk liability could be disputed.
Miss T had courtesy car caver included within her motor insurance policy and on the 
face of it there was nothing to suggest Miss T had needed a like for like car. 
AAISL didnt agree, they said the referral isnt an instruction and they wouldnt go into to 
details about the AMCs role  that is for the AMC to do and if Miss T wanted to reject the 
option, she could have been referred back to AAISL to arrange a courtesy car.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I want to acknowledge that Miss T has also 
made a complaint to the AMC about their actions, but this does not form part of this 
complaint. I will only be considering what happened between Miss T and AAISL during the 
call when she was referred to the AMC and if AAISL met the required standards.
In line with Principle 7 of the FCA Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R 
The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R (Clear, fair and not misleading rule) AAISL ass Miss Ts 
insurance broker AAISL were obliged to provide her with clear, fair and not misleading 
information. This means when she called them to notify them of her claim, they ought to 
have provided her with clear and balanced information about her options, so she could make 
an informed choice about how to proceed.
AAISL were also required under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1R) to pay due regard to the interests of 
Miss T as their customer and treat her fairly. And in line with the Customers best interests 
rule under ICOBS 2.5.-1R, AAISL were required to act honestly, fairly, and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of their customer. And, in line with Principle 9 
(PRIN2.1R), if any recommendations were made, they were required to take reasonable 
care to ensure the suitability of their advice.
Ive reviewed the contents of the call and considered if AAISL met their regulatory 
requirements, and I dont think they did. I say this because when Miss T explained the 
circumstances of the accident, she was told by AAISL This would go down as non-fault 
definitely.  They then told her where her nearest approved repairer was located. She asked 
about the possibility of using her own garage, but AAISL told her that they would prefer her 
to use their approved repairer and explained the reasons why. Miss T agreed to this as she 
said she didnt want to hold things up. 
AAISLs call handler then said: What we will do now is put in the AMC for your hire. So, 
youll get a similar specification hire vehicle if we use the AMC Miss T asked, Sorry so the 
AMC is the courtesy car? and was told Yes they give you a like for like vehicle for the 
duration of the repair
Its clear Miss T wasnt given any options at all, let alone balanced ones. As at the point of 
the call there had been no admission of liability from the third party, AAISL should have 
pointed out to Miss T that there were risks associated with using the AMC and taking a hire 
car. 
AAISL didnt ask Miss T if she had a need for a car and if so, did she need a like for like one. 
Miss T has told us that she thought she was being provided with a courtesy car, as she was 
entitled to under her motor insurance policy. Her own car was still drivable, and Miss T had said the damage was very little, just a small area underneath the back light. A courtesy car 
was all she expected and AAISL hadnt established a need for a like for like car. This, in my 
view, makes any recommendation for credit hire inappropriate, as this could inflate the claim 
costs unnecessarily and go against Miss Ts duty to mitigate her losses. And ultimately could 
affect whether the hire car charges are recoverable from the TPI. 
Based on what Miss T has told us and listening to the referral call Im satisfied that had Miss 
T been presented with balanced options of the choices she had, she would have chosen to 
take the courtesy car cover her policy provided for, and not taken the risk of being liable for 
hire car costs. So, I cant fairly agree that AAISL acted in Miss Ts best interests when 
referring her for credit hire.
Im pleased to hear that liability has now been settled and Miss T has been reassured that 
she will not be liable for the hire car costs. But this doesnt take away the worry that she had 
about this while liability was in dispute. 
Ive considered AAISLs argument that it wasnt an instruction and Miss T could have 
declined, I dont agree that she knew she had this option. So, I think but for AAISLs 
inappropriate referral she would not have been in this position and so would not have faced 
this worry.  Because of this I believe AAISL needs to compensate Miss T. 
Putting things right
AAISL should now pay Miss T £200 compensation for the distress the referral ultimately 
caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things right 
section of this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman