DRN-2585901
The complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. He also says Nationwide hasnt worked out his compensation right when it comes to 
the commission and profit share on that policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought the PPI in 2006 over the phone, after taking out the credit card itself 
beforehand. The insurance covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Nationwide refunded some of the cost of the PPI, but Mr S has disputed the amount that 
he shouldve got.
I sent Mr S and Nationwide a provisional decision on 19 January 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain.
Mr Ss credit card application offered him the choice to take out PPI or turn it down. At that 
point, Mr S didnt choose PPI, and he was granted the card without it. He later spoke to 
Nationwide on the phone and was sold the policy. Because of all the time thats passed, 
there isnt still a recording of the call. But from what Ive seen of Nationwides sales process 
at the time, staff were instructed to explain the optional nature of the policy, give customers a 
choice about whether theyd like it or not, and only set it up if the customer consented. I have 
no good reason to think that Mr Ss sale differed significantly from the normal process. 
Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with Nationwides sales from the time, nor 
anything which shows that Mr S was misled into buying PPI here. So I think its most likely 
that Nationwide made it clear Mr S didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it  
though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
From what I understand, this was a non-advised sale. That means Nationwide didnt give 
Mr S tailored advice about buying PPI, and instead gave him information about the policy 
and left it up to him to decide whether it was right for him or not. Thats perfectly legitimate. 
Mr S has suggested that Nationwide should have given him advice, but it was under no 
obligation to.
Even if I assume that Nationwide did or should have advised Mr S, that would only mean it 
had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example, it looks like Mr S was eligible for the cover and 
wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
Mr S has suggested that the PPI wouldnt have even covered the interest on his credit card, 
but Im afraid hes mistaken. Hes mixed up the policys monthly benefit with the cards yearly 
interest rate. In actual fact, the PPI wouldve paid off significant amounts of his balance each 
month, and wouldve cleared his balance in full if hed needed to claim for a full period. The 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ss work benefits and offered him more comprehensive 
cover, especially for when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay. Further, 
he only had limited savings, and the PPI meant he could effectively protect those savings 
and use them for other things. Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Mr S in 
case hed needed to claim.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. But as I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mr S in case 
something went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr S could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. So I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking it out. 
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Nationwides offer
Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case. This is what the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) suggest 
Nationwide should pay in a case like this.
For a credit card like Mr Ss, that means Nationwide had to re-work the account and refund 
the difference between what he paid and what he wouldve paid if the commission and profit 
share had not been over 50% of the PPI premium. It also means they had to refund any 
extra costs that Mr S had to pay because of the excess commission and profit share  such 
as interest and fees. And it means they had to pay him 8% simple interest for periods where 
hed overpaid his credit card, to compensate him for the time he was without his money.
Ive looked at how Nationwide worked out the compensation here and Im satisfied it has 
done everything the FCA has asked. It refunded any amounts of commission and profit 
share that were over 50% of the PPI premium, along with any extra interest, premiums, or 
fees that he paid because of that. It also added 8% simple interest on top, for any period 
where Mr S had cleared his credit card and so had made overpayments owing to the extra 
commission and profit share.
Mr S did his own calculations and came out with a much higher figure. I wont go through 
Mr Ss calculations in too much depth, as my role here is to assess Nationwides calculations 
and not Mr Ss. But if it helps to make things clearer, Ill explain the key reasons why his 
calculations went wrong and why he came out with such an overly-high figure.First, Ill explain that the commission and profit share were included in the PPI premiums that 
Mr S had been paying. The commission and profit share were not separate costs on top.
I can see that Mr S included all of the PPI premiums he ever paid in his proposed refund. But 
since the PPI wasnt mis-sold, Nationwide didnt have to refund all of the premiums. They 
only had to refund the commission and profit share that made up over 50% of any given 
premium  and the rate of commission and profit share changed over time. So for example, 
if one months PPI premium was made up of 40% commission and profit share, then 
Nationwide dont have to refund any of it, because its under 50%. If a premium was made 
up of 60% commission and profit share, then Nationwide have to refund 10% of that 
premium  which is the commission and profit share that was over the 50% mark. So the 
proportion of PPI premiums that Nationwide had to refund was much smaller than what Mr S 
thought.
Mr S then included this extra commission and profit share on top of all the premiums, as 
another separate amount to refund. But the commission and profit share were part of those 
premiums. So hes counted them twice.
Mr S added 8% interest for the entire period PPI was charged, from 2006 onwards. But the 
8% simple interest is only there to cover Mr Ss overpayments. For example, lets say in a 
given month Mr Ss balance was £100, and he paid £30 towards his card that month. But 
lets say his balance would have been only £20 were it not for the excess commission and 
profit share that had accumulated up to that point. That means he wouldve overpaid his 
credit card by £10 that month. So Nationwide would need to compensate him for the time 
hes been missing that £10. Here, Mr S kept a significant balance on his credit card for some 
time. So he didnt reach the point where he was making overpayments until 2013.
Further, Mr S added 8% interest on top of everything hed ever paid for PPI  which, as 
I explained above, is not correct: its only the excess commission and profit share thats 
relevant here. And he added it as compound interest  where he charged interest on top of 
interest. But the 8% is charged as simple interest  it doesnt accumulate on top of itself. 
This 8% simple interest is the same rate the courts use for similar situations, sometimes 
known as statutory compensatory interest, or simple compensation interest.
I hope that helps to explain where Mr Ss calculations went wrong. As I explained above, 
I think Nationwide have already compensated him fairly for the commission and profit share 
that was over 50% of his PPI premiums.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
17 February 2021. Nationwide said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr S responded 
to reiterate his previous points, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S reiterated that he wanted Nationwide to refund all his PPI premiums. But while 
I understand his position, as I explained in my provisional decision, this policy was not mis-
sold, which means Nationwide did not have to refund all the PPI premiums.To be clear: Nationwide was not required to put Mr S in the position he wouldve been in had 
he never paid for PPI at all, and its offer was not intended to do that. As I explained before, 
Nationwide only had to refund a smaller proportion of the PPI premiums  that is, the 
proportion of the premiums commission and profit share that was over the 50% mark. And 
Nationwide has already done that fairly.
Mr S re-sent his previous calculations. But Im afraid I already explained in the provisional 
decision that those were not correct. For example, he included all the PPI premiums in the 
refund, when only a fraction of them needed refunding; he included the same commission 
and profit share amounts twice over as they were already a part of those PPI premiums; he 
worked out the 8% simple interest as compound interest instead of simple interest; and he 
charged the 8% simple interest for the wrong periods. So his calculations came out with a 
figure that was much higher than what it shouldve been.
Im satisfied that Nationwide has already compensated Mr S fairly for the commission and 
profit share that was over 50% of his PPI premiums, so I do not require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Nationwide Building Society did have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It has already done this, so I do not award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman