DRN-2880905
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim under their home 
insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S said their conservatory roof started to leak following a storm in December 
2020.
Aviva sent an assessor to inspect the damage. The assessor took photos from ground level.
The assessor said the leak was due to faulty workmanship. Aviva declined the claim. It said 
the policy didnt cover poor workmanship.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said the conservatory was only five years old. They thought 
Aviva should get a second opinion. They also didnt think Avivas assessor had carried out a 
thorough inspection.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think Aviva had treated them unfairly.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Aviva hasnt disputed that there were storm conditions around the time that the damage 
occurred. 
Regarding the second question, its possible for the crest and finial on a conservatory roof to 
be lifted by high winds although its less likely if its in good condition.
What I have to decide is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to the roof. In 
deciding this, I usually rely on expert evidence. 
Aviva appointed an assessor to look at the conservatory roof. He reported that it looked like 
the crest and finial hadnt been fitted properly when the conservatory was installed. 
I havent seen any evidence from Mr and Mrs S to the contrary. Aviva was entitled to rely on 
its assessors opinion to decline the claim and I dont think that it was unreasonable for it to 
do so. I dont think Mr and Mrs S have thrown sufficient doubt on its conclusion to make me 
think that Aviva should change its position. In my opinion Aviva has shown its more likely 
than not that there were existing problems with the roof and/or that a storm wasnt the main 
cause of the damage.
Whenever a policyholder makes a claim under an insurance policy, its their responsibility to 
prove their claim  in other words, the onus is initially on them to show that the damage 
being claimed for is covered under the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. So I 
dont think it was unfair of Aviva not to get a second opinion.
The assessors report (which is supported by a number of photos) stated that the finial and 
crest probably hadnt been fitted properly which the assessor attributed to poor 
workmanship as opposed to a storm or other insured cause. As a result, once the assessor 
had reported that there was no evidence of any insured loss or damage, the onus fell on 
Mr and Mrs S once again to prove otherwise  which meant they had to show that the 
damage was caused by a storm. But as they havent provided any comparable expert 
evidence to contradict the assessors findings, they havent in my view shown that they had 
a valid claim. So, I dont think Avivas decision to reject the claim was unreasonable or 
unfair.
Mr and Mrs S have also questioned the thoroughness of the inspection, in particular that it 
was carried out from ground level. But it isnt unusual for assessors not to go up onto a 
policyholders roof due to health and safety, and other, reasons. That doesnt persuade me 
that the inspection was necessarily inadequate.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman