DRN-2422252
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the settlement offered by Aviva Insurance Limited after he made 
a claim under his home insurance policy for the theft of a luxury watch. Hes also unhappy 
with the way his claim has been handled.
What happened
Mr F made a claim to Aviva after he was robbed at gunpoint of his luxury watch and a 
bracelet.
Aviva accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to handle it. The loss adjuster 
involved a jewellery specialist in the claim. 
Mr F said hed bought the bracelet about 20 years ago for over £6,000. At first Aviva offered 
him £6,600 to replace that. After Mr F challenged the valuation, it increased the offer to 
£9,300 which he accepted and it paid him £100 compensation for the way it had handled the 
claim.
In support of his claim for the watch Mr F provided two valuations, a receipt for a service and 
photos of his watch. The jewellery specialist contacted the watch manufacturer for details of 
the watch with the serial number Mr F had quoted. The manufacturer said the serial number 
applied to a certain type of ladies watch. That didnt match the watch in the photos provided 
by Mr F. Mr F said that was because the watch had been modified or customised. Aviva 
offered him a replacement ladies watch costing £7,050 or a cash settlement of £6,345.00 
based on what it would cost it to replace that model of ladies watch. 
Mr F said Avivas offer didnt take into account the fact that the watch had been customised 
with a diamond-set bracelet, bezel (ring around the watch face) and dial.
Mr F complained to Aviva but it didnt change its decision. The complaint was brought to this 
service. Our investigator thought Aviva should reconsider settlement of the claim on the 
basis of the customised watch Mr F had owned rather than the standard model. 
As Aviva didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no question here about the fact that Mr F was the victim of a robbery or that he 
owned a certain make of luxury watch. The issue is what would be an appropriate settlement 
for it.
All the manufacturer could say was that the serial number of Mr Fs watch didnt match the 
model number and was for a certain type of ladies watch. Aviva said that sort of ladies watch 
would be worth about £7,050. Manufacturers of luxury watches generally dont get involved 
with modifications of their products and so Im not surprised that the manufacturer didnt 
have a record of any modification to the watch bearing this serial number.
However there is other evidence of the modification. In particular a 2015 jewellers valuation 
refers to an 18CT gold case with diamond bezel, Gold diamond dial, Gold holds, diamond 
numerals18CT Goldbracelet. Mr F has also provided photos of the watch.
Avivas assessor accepted that the price quoted of £7,050 wouldnt be enough for a watch 
with a diamond bezel, dial and bracelet but Aviva didnt adjust the settlement to take these 
features into account. I think in order to treat Mr F fairly it should have done. 
Aviva has since said that theres nothing to support the fact that the watch was customised 
with genuine parts from the same manufacturer or that the diamonds were genuine. I accept 
one cant be completely sure. But there is some evidence to support the case that they were 
genuine. Mr F has produced two valuations  one made in 2015 which valued the watch at 
£20,000 and one from 2017 with a valuation of £15,000. One valuation specifically refers to 
diamonds. In view of the amount of the valuations I think its reasonable to assume that both 
jewellers were satisfied by the quality of what they were seeing.
Mr Fs policy is a policy of indemnity. That means it aims to put the policyholder back in the 
position they were in just before the loss happened. I dont think it was fair and reasonable 
for Aviva to offer Mr F a settlement that didnt take into account the specifics of the watch he 
owned, which hed evidenced. I think it should reconsider its settlement based on the 
customised watch Mr F had rather than a standard model of watch with the same serial 
number. 
I understand that the robbery must have been a traumatic experience for Mr F. I also 
appreciate that he found it distressing to be reminded of it because of the problems in 
settling his claim. But overall I think the compensation already paid of £100 is reasonable in 
the circumstances and in line with what Id have awarded if no offer had been made by 
Aviva. I dont think it needs to pay any more in this respect.
Putting things right
I think Aviva should reconsider its settlement on the basis of the customised watch Mr F had 
owned rather than the standard model based on the serial number.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to reconsider its settlement on 
the basis of the customised watch Mr F had owned rather than the standard model based on 
the serial number.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman