DRN-2857553
The complaint
Mrs R complains about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
handled a claim she made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs R made a claim on a legal expenses insurance policy provided by DAS for a dispute she 
was in with a tenant. DAS appointed solicitors who carried out some initial actions which 
were covered by Mrs Rs policy. DAS declined to provide ongoing cover after a counter-
claim was made against Mrs R as the appointed solicitors advised that there were no longer 
reasonable prospects of success for her claim.
Mrs R complained to DAS. She was unhappy with the conduct of the solicitors, the decision 
to withdraw cover and also that contact shed made with DAS hadnt been promptly 
responded to. 
DAS directed the complaint about the conduct of the solicitors to the solicitors themselves to 
respond to as part of its own complaint process, but said that it thought it had acted fairly 
when it withdrew cover after receiving the advice from the solicitors. It did say that there had 
been occasions on which its communication with Mrs R could have been better, and paid 
£150 compensation to her.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with this and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought that DAS LEIs response was appropriate and that it didnt need to do anything 
further.
As Mrs R didnt agree, her complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The solicitors appointed to assess the merits of Mrs Rs claim concluded, after carrying out 
some initial actions and enquiries, that her claim was unlikely to be successful. On the basis 
of advice to this effect, DAS withdrew cover for further legal costs for the claim.
The policy terms say a claim must have reasonable prospects of success to be covered. 
DAS obtained legal advice on whether the claim was likely to be successful and the advice 
was that it wasnt. Where an insurer receives legal advice that a claim is unlikely to be 
successful, its generally entitled to rely on that advice unless there is an obvious factual or 
the advice would be clearly wrong to a layperson. I wouldnt expect DAS to continue funding 
Mrs Rs legal action in the face of clear legal advice that it isnt likely to succeed. Mrs R 
hasnt provided any contrary legal advice to suggest that DAS appointed solicitors advice is 
incorrect. In these circumstances, DAS acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms 
when it withdrew cover for the claim.
While I appreciate Mrs Rs dissatisfaction with the conduct of the solicitor, our services 
jurisdiction doesnt extend to looking at the solicitors actions.
What we can look at is whether DAS handled the claim appropriately. I can see that DAS 
has admitted there were occasions on which it didnt respond to Mrs R as it should have, 
and as a result she had to chase DAS for updates and for the claim to progress. 
After it issued its final response to the complaint, Mrs R contacted DAS again. It appears that 
from these calls, DAS believed her dissatisfaction was with the solicitors and the response 
shed received to her complaint, and that she should be directed either to the solicitors or our 
service. I cant see that this was communicated to her as it should have been. 
So I do conclude that DAS could have handled this claim better. There was a pattern of her 
contacting DAS for updates or progress and not receiving a meaningful response. She was 
caused inconvenience by having to make further contact to chase up responses. But I think 
that the £150 paid as compensation to date by DAS suitably recognises the inconvenience 
caused to her.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman