DRN-3843498
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his car insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) because it made an error when recording a claim, making him worry his car had been 
damaged and involved in an incident when it hadnt.
What happened
Mr M had a notification from LV on a Saturday of a bank holiday weekend. It said his car had 
been involved in an incident and he had to contact LV, by phone or email, within five days. 
Mr M was away on holiday and had to enlist someone near his home to check on his car. His 
car was safe and fine, and nowhere near the incident LV had told him about. Mr M emailed 
LV that same day, and continued emailing LV over the next few days. But he didnt receive 
any contact from LV in reply until the Wednesday evening.
LV emailed Mr M, explaining there had been a mistake which had been corrected. The email 
said the claim had been removed from Mr Ms policy. Mr M still felt uneasy about everything 
and complained. The following Thursday LV apologised to Mr M for the upset it had caused 
him and four days after that it issued a final response. In the final response LV accepted it 
had failed Mr M, causing him upset. It assured that feedback would be given as it 
understood it was important to stop this from happening again. LV offered a further apology 
and said it was sending a cheque for £100 to compensate for the upset caused. Mr M 
complained to us. 
Our Investigator felt LV had failed Mr M. But that the action it had taken to rectify the error 
and the way it had responded to the complaint amounted to a fair and reasonable resolution. 
So he said he wasnt persuaded to make LV do anything more. 
Mr M was unhappy. He explained in detail why and how he felt LV had got things wrong and 
what it couldve done differently. He also detailed the worry hed had on the day of, and in 
the days after, receiving LVs notification. He asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that LV failed Mr M here; it made a mistake and that caused him worry and upset 
which, but for LVs failure, would have been avoided. I can assure Mr M that in considering 
his complaint Ive read and taken into account everything hes told us and all the 
correspondence he and LV have shared with us which took place on the day, and in the 
days after, the error occurred. I know Mr M was worried about his car and that LVs first 
message on 4 May, for Mr M, came too late and was not very clear. I know he undertook 
investigations and emailed LV to try and get more details and find out how this couldve 
happened. And from Mr Ms correspondence, I think its fair to say that, even when LV 
offered a fuller explanation in its final response of 16 May 2022, Mr M was left with 
uncertainties as he felt he could no longer trust LV. 
With all that acknowledged though, I have to say I do think that LV in accepting it had made 
an error, apologising, assuring that feedback was being given, and sending £100 
compensation, has acted fairly and reasonably to resolve the matter. Im satisfied that the 
sum of £100 is in line with other awards made in similar circumstances by this service. It 
reflects, in my view, that Mr M suffered frustration beyond that he might reasonably expect to 
encounter when dealing with a financial business and that this took some effort from him, 
albeit over a relatively short period, to resolve. Im not going to ask LV to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman