DRN-4051019
The complaint
Mr S complains that AWP P&C SA declined his baggage delay travel insurance claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mr S has travel insurance, insured by AWP, through a bank account. When Mr S returned 
from a trip abroad his baggage was delayed. He received his baggage at home a few days 
later. He says he received no compensation from the airline for the baggage delay and he 
claimed on his insurance.
AWP declined the claim. It said under the policy terms the baggage delay benefit was only 
for outbound, not return, travel.
Mr S complained to us. He said the policy wording meant the restriction on no cover for 
return travel was only if he hadnt provided receipts for his claim. As hed provided receipts 
his claim was covered. He wants AWP to pay his claim of just under £400, which is the 
policy limit.
Our investigator said AWP may have meant to exclude claims for delayed baggage for 
return journeys, but the policy wording wasnt clear enough and when theres ambiguity its 
fair for the benefit of the doubt to be given to the policyholder. He recommended AWP pay 
the claim.
AWP disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Im intending to not uphold the complaint as 
I think overall AWP reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say:
If your baggage is delayed by a travel supplier during your trip, we will reimburse you 
for expenses you incur for the essential items you need until your baggage arrives, 
up to the maximum benefit for Baggage delay shown in the Benefits summary.
The following conditions apply:
1. Your baggage must be delayed for at least the Minimum required delay listed 
under Baggage delay as shown in the Benefits summary.
2.If you do not provide receipts, the maximum amount payable is the No receipts 
limit shown in the Benefits summary. Only available for your outbound travel (not 
your return travel).
I understand both parties points. Condition 2 above can be read to mean the cover for 
baggage delay is only for outward journeys, not return journeys, which is what AWP 
intended. Or condition 2 can be read to mean if a policyholder doesnt provide receipts for 
the claim they can only claim for outward journeys. Mr S says as he provided receipts with 
his claim the outbound travel requirement doesnt apply.
Where theres ambiguity in the policy wording we may say its fair and reasonable for the 
benefit of the ambiguity to be given to the policyholder.
But even if I thought AWP couldnt fairly say baggage delay benefit was always only for 
outbound travel I cant ignore what the remainder of the policy terms for baggage delay say. 
The policy terms say AWP will reimburse a policyholder for expenses you incur for the 
essential items you need until your baggage arrives. That wording reflects that the purpose 
of the benefit is to assist policyholders to buy essential items when they are away from home 
when their baggage has been delayed.
Mr S was at home while waiting for his delayed baggage to be delivered. He claimed for new 
trousers, jacket, shirt, undergarments and socks. I think its highly likely he had similar 
clothing items at home he could wear so the expenses he incurred werent for essential 
items he needed until his baggage arrived. His expenses werent covered by the policy 
terms and theres no basis for me to say AWP should reasonably cover those expenses. 
Overall I think AWP acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
AWP said it had nothing to add. Mr S didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary 
he said:
Id acknowledged the policy term was ambiguous and I shouldnt go against the 
investigators recommendation for AWP to pay the claim without clear evidence.
The policy definition of trip included travel from abroad and the benefit summary in 
the policy said there was Reimbursement for essential items in case of a delay in 
baggage arrival at the trip destination. So the purpose of the benefit was to assist 
him in buying essential items when his baggage was delayed whether or not he was 
at home. 
He was at home while waiting for his delayed baggage but he didnt know when or if 
it would arrive. He waited two days before buying the essential items he needed as 
he had a business meeting and his business attire was in his delayed baggage. It 
was irrelevant whether he had similar items at home as the policy didnt say the 
expenses claimed must be for items that werent similar to items he already owned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S response hasnt changed my mind, I still think AWP reasonably declined the claim so 
I dont uphold the complaint. Where a complaint is referred to me for a decision Ill look at 
everything thats been provided and make an independent decision, so Im not bound by the 
investigators recommendation.
Mr S has referred to the policy definition of trip, which includes Your travel originally 
scheduled to begin from your primary residence on your departure date and end on your 
return date to, within and/or from a location abroad Mr S says the wording hes provided from the benefit summary in the policy document, as 
set out above, supports hes covered for baggage delay from a trip abroad. But that 
summary wording also says for a baggage delay claim the Minimum required delay length is 
4 hours. I think the very short period of time after which the benefit is claimable supports 
AWPs point that the policy should be read as the baggage delay benefit is for outbound 
travel only. I dont think a policyholder could reasonably understand that once theyd arrived 
home there was policy cover for a benefit which only required their baggage to have been 
delayed for 4 hours. Mr S says he waited two days after hed returned home to claim, but the 
effect of the wording to support AWPs point remains.
The policy isnt as clear as it could have been that the cover for baggage delay is always for 
outbound journeys, not return journeys. But looking at the policy as a whole I think AWP 
reasonably considered that the cover always being for outbound travel only was clear 
enough and it reasonably declined Mr S claim as the baggage delay was on his return.
Even if I thought AWP couldnt fairly say the policy was clear enough that baggage delay 
benefit was always only for outbound travel I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say 
AWP should pay Mr S claim in these circumstances.
The baggage delay cover is for expenses you incur for the essential items you need until 
your baggage arrives. Mr S says the policy doesnt state the claim must be for items that 
werent similar to items he already owned, but I dont think it needs to. The policy doesnt 
define essential so its reasonable for me to consider the everyday meaning of the word. 
From considering various dictionary definitions I think its reasonable for me to conclude that 
essential generally means necessary. In the context of a baggage delay claim that means 
the policy covers expenses incurred for necessary items needed until the baggage arrives, 
and thats because a policyholder doesnt have the items because they are away from home.
Overall for the above reasons Im satisfied that AWP fairly and reasonably declined Mr S 
claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman