DRN-3379757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complained that her claim for accidental damage was unfairly declined and 
her home insurance policy unfairly voided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs N said she fell whilst carrying a laptop and four mobile phones. She contacted 
RSA and made a claim for accidental damage under her policy for the damage sustained to 
the electrical items.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to review the claim and subsequently a specialist investigator. 
The investigator wasnt convinced by the damage presented so appointed two separate 
independent experts who reviewed the damaged items. 
RSA said two independent, reputable, and experienced companies have confirmed the 
damage to one of the phones is not consistent with accidental damage. They have both 
confirmed the damage to the phone is excessive in nature and not consistent with the 
circumstances of the claim. I acknowledge that you disagree with our conclusions and have 
reiterated your version of events; however, our suppliers have confirmed that the damage is 
still not consistent. As a result, we referred your claim to our underwriting team who 
confirmed that based on the evidence available we would proceed to void your policy. Whilst 
I appreciate this is disappointing for you to hear, we are bound to the terms and conditions of 
your policy. Therefore, I do not uphold your complaint and I maintain our decision to decline 
your claim and void your policy.
Mr and Mrs N provided contradictory evidence from the manufacturers approved repairer 
about the damage presented and from an updated testimony from Mrs N.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought RSA had followed a 
reasonable process investigating what had happened and had adequately proven the 
damage wasnt consistent with the circumstances of the claim. Therefore, he thought RSA 
was fair in voiding the policy and declining the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Mr and Mrs N disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In all cases we deal with, we need to try to establish whats more likely to have happened on 
the balance of probabilities, based on the available evidence. RSA has decided to void the 
policy and not pay the claim under the policy. 
I have checked the policy and clause 7 under the general conditions says If fraud is 
established your insurer will:
i) Not pay any claim under this policy;
ii) Cancel your cover without any return premium or void your
policy from the start date.
Therefore, if RSA has shown on the balance of probabilities, that the damage wasnt 
consistent with the circumstances of the claim, then I would say it has been fair to decline 
the claim and void the policy as it wouldve acted within the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
I have first considered the process that RSA has followed. It appointed a loss adjuster and 
because the circumstances of the claim were thought to be suspicious it appointed a 
specialist investigator to interview Mr and Mrs N and carry out further investigations. As part 
of this process, two independent experts were appointed to review the damage that had 
been presented. I think RSA has followed a reasonable process using specialist 
organisations to help it with its investigations.
I have reviewed the investigators report and the enclosed testimonies from the two experts. 
The summary of the investigators report reads The claim relates to the alleged accidental 
damage to multiple electrical items in the same event, which is possible but not common, 
and this is the second claim under the policy for such an occurrence. The inspection reports 
from two reputable and experienced companies, which have been reviewed and discussed 
by their workshop managers, concur that there are concerns with several of the items having 
actually been damaged in this alleged event, but for one item in particular, the mobile x, 
based on the materials used to construct the handset and the forces it is built to endure, the 
damage is so extensive, that it could not have occurred as stated and they therefore 
consider this to be deliberate damage. We did make a call to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service technical helpline to seek their view on such cases and they confirmed where the 
evidence from relevantly qualified experts concluded that the damage was excessive and in 
keeping with deliberate damage they would consider policy voidance as appropriate and 
proportionate.
I think the testimonies, photographs and conclusions provided by RSAs appointed experts 
are consistent, which makes me find the evidence provided by it to be reliable.
Mr and Mrs N has provided a contradicting account for how part of the damage to the mobile 
was caused by her husband rather than in the accident itself, which made the damage to the 
phone look inconsistent with the accident claimed for. Im not saying what Mr and Mrs N has 
said is not genuine, however, as the account of what happened hasnt been consistent 
throughout the claim and this new testimony was only raised once the damage was 
challenged by RSA, I find this less persuasive.
Mr and Mrs N has provided a written account from the manufacturers approved repairer for 
the phone which explains what may happen to a phone if it is deliberately run over by a car 
or if it had been deliberately shut in a door. However, the repairer clearly states 
Unfortunately, it is very difficult for us to advise on the situation. Given Mr and Mrs Ns 
expert has admitted its hard for them to advise in these circumstances, I havent been able 
to give these findings much weight in my considerations.
I think Mr and Mrs N has tried to provide some further evidence that the damage to her 
electrical items was caused by the one-off accident. On the balance of probabilities however, 
I find the report and testimonies provided by RSAs appointed experts to be more persuasive 
as they are consistent throughout. Therefore, I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs 
N, but I dont uphold this complaint. I think RSA has proven on the balance of probabilities 
the damage presented wasnt consistent with the accident claimed for, therefore, I think it 
has been fair in declining the claim and voiding the policy. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman