DRN-3735036
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service he received from Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
(HSDL) during a rights issue by Rolls Royce Holdings in November 2020. He would like 
additional compensation for the errors caused.
What happened
On 1 October 2020 Rolls Royce announced a rights issue. The terms were ten New 
Ordinary shares for every three Existing Ordinary shares at an Issue Price of 32 pence per 
New Ordinary share. 
Mr M held Rolls Royce shares within his stocks and shares ISA he had with HSDL. Mr M 
wanted to take up his rights allocation if he could and contacted HSDL via its Webchat 
Service about what action he could take. He wasnt happy with the information he was given, 
and which resulted in him raising a complaint on 21 October.
In its response on 10 November 2020 HSDL upheld Mr Ms complaint. It said;
It confirmed that the information Mr M had been given via its Webchat Service on    
27 September wasnt clear  poor and generic responses were given, and key dates 
were mistyped. 
It accepted the service provided was below expectations and offered Mr M £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience he had been caused. 
After further problems  a year later  Mr M noticed that insufficient rights had been taken 
up. He raised a further complaint with HSDL on 5 November 2021. In its response of            
2 December 2021, It said;
Sufficient rights had been sold on his account to take up the balance but the cash 
which he had also wanted to use to take up rights remained uninvested. 
It confirmed that Mr M had been misinformed about which option he should accept.
To correct the position, it had added a further 1,386 Rolls Royce Ordinary shares to 
his account on 16 November. 
It accepted it had taken a year for the position to be corrected but also took into 
consideration that Mr M hadnt made any contact during this period.
In recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, it offered to pay Mr M £100 
in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Mr M wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think HSDL needed to do 
anything more. He said;
Mr M had been fully compensated and had been put back in the position he would 
have been in but for the error.
Mr M operated an execution only account and he was solely responsible for funding 
his account with cash to buy more rights if he wanted to.
He thought the further redress of £100 was sufficient in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said;
He had been given bad advice by HSDL and which he had acted upon. 
He was pleased that HSDL had upheld his complaint but not happy with the 
proposed remedy and didnt accept the investigators comment that he had accepted 
all figures and redress offer for the B [business] error at the time. He said he queried 
it and asked for a breakdown of the calculation which he never received. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
From the information HSDL has provided I can see that Mr M was first notified of the rights 
issue on 2 October 2020. That notification confirmed that HSDL would communicate the 
details of the Rights Issue and the options available to you as soon as possible after the 
proposed Ex-Date of 28th October 2020.
On 29 October 2020 Mr M was notified with further details and was given four options;
Option 1  Take up their Rights.
 Option 2  Partial take up of their Rights.
 Option 3  Sell their Rights.
 Option 4  Cashless take up of their Rights.
Further details about the options were given and that any rights subscribed to would be 
credited to Mr Ms account on 12 November and stock market trading would start. If Mr M 
wanted to sell existing shares in his account to finance taking up the rights, he would need to 
carry out any trade prior to 6 November to ensure there were cleared funds on his account. 
To accept the rights within his ISA Mr M needed to complete an ISA Customer Application 
Form or give a verbal declaration.  
Mr M spoke with HSDL on 5 November 2020. He had approximately £1,000 cash in his ISA 
which he wanted to use to take up some of the rights. He also wanted to sell sufficient of the 
remaining rights to take up the balance/tail swallow. Ive reviewed the transcript of the call as 
provided by HSDL. It says;
.Agent clarifies that Mr M[] is wanting to sell some of his rights and use the 
money to buy up his rights, Mr M[] says yes, but he also wishes to use the money 
in his ISA however the communication is not clear on how he would do that. Agent 
places Mr M[] on hold whilst she clarifies what needs to be done.Agent returns and confirms that Mr M[] can sell as many of his rights as he wants 
and use the proceeds to take up what was left so if he chooses option 4 so we will 
sell sufficient for him. Otherwise, he will have to calculate the figures himself.
As a result of the call Mr M elected for Option 4 on 6 November. On 17 November Mr M 
was notified that the New Rolls Royce Holdings Ordinary shares had been credited to his 
account.
 
After reviewing the transcript, I think Mr M was given the correct information, but further 
clarification would have been helpful. It seems likely to me that;
Mr M should have taken up as many rights as he wanted to with the £1,000 he had 
available  which I am of the opinion was indicated by the comment he will have to 
calculate the figures himself; 
and then go on to sell sufficient rights of the remainder to take up as many of the 
remaining balance as he could. 
However, its not necessary for me to make a finding on this point as HSDL has already put 
the matter right. I say this because a year later Mr M contacted HSDL about the £1,000 cash 
on his ISA which hadnt been used to take up any rights. On 15 November HSDL recognised 
its error when Mr M was informed to select Option 4 which resulted in the uninvested cash 
being left on his account. It confirmed to Mr M that it would be correcting the position  
inclusive of costs and charges  by buying an additional 1,386 Rolls Royce shares for his 
account which would be debited with £967.92 and it would write off the difference. 
Mr M wanted time to review the figures, but the changes went ahead, and the costs of £9.50 
commission and £9.79 stamp duty hadnt been absorbed by HSDL. HSDL said it would 
credit this to Mr Ms account. In response to the investigator Mr M disagreed with the 
comment that Mr M had agreed to the proposed correction at the time. 
Ive reviewed the transcript of the calls that Mr M had with HSDL on 16 and 17 November. 
During the first call its confirmed that Mr Ms Rolls Royce position was to be corrected and 
that 1,386 shares would be credited to his ISA. The call continues and Mr M confirms that 
everything is fine, but he would like a couple of days to look at it then we can close it out. 
Handler requests that when Mr M is happy with the outcome could he please call back, 
alternatively we will call him in a couple of days.confirms that we will not send him any 
further details and runs through the figures again
On 17 November Mr M is called and he says he has not checked the figures yet but has 
noticed movements on his account, but he wanted to check the figures. The handler explains 
that the correction was taking place regardless, as we must close the position in the 
market Further into the call the handler apologises that the trades are going ahead but it 
is classed as price sensitive, we need to close the open position in the market.
While I can understand why Mr M wanted to check the figures before the correction went 
ahead, I think its clear from the above that it was sufficiently explained to him why it had to 
happen as soon as possible. HSDL had a responsibility to make any stock market trade 
corrections as soon as it could otherwise prices could move against it. So, I dont think by 
HSDL carrying out the trade as soon possible was unreasonable. 
However, I wanted to make sure that HSDL had corrected the situation properly and asked 
for details from the time of the rights issue and time of the correction. HSDL has provided the 
following;
Mr M was entitled to 5,603 Rolls Royce rights. Mr M elected for option 4 (tail swallow/selling sufficient to take up the balance) and 
the following action took place 
o2,562 of the rights were sold at a market price of 0.382p, which after a £5.00 
commission charge raised £973.12.
oThe remaining 3,041 rights were taken up at 0.32p each and an overall cost 
of £973.12.
But Mr Ms intention was to use as much of the cash on account as he could to pay for the 
rights issue and subsequent to that tail swallow the remainder. If that had been done the 
following would have happened;
Mr M had £967.92 cash on account. 
He could have added to that by selling 1,194 Rolls Royce rights to raise a further 
£443.60 based on the sale price of 0.382p and less HSDLs £12.50 commission 
which took the total cash on his account to £1,411.52.
He could have taken up the remaining 4,409 rights at a cost of £1,410.88 giving him 
a total of 4,409 Roll Royce Ordinary shares. 
So, to put the matter right, HSDL had to debit the £967.92 from Mr Ms account and add 
1,368 Rolls Royce Ordinary shares being the difference between the 3,041 shares originally 
taken up and the 4,409 shares which he should have had if he had been correctly informed.  
I hope that now Mr M has had the opportunity to review all of the above figures he is 
satisfied that HSDL has corrected the matter and he is now in the position he should have 
been in if he had been able to take the action that he wanted at the time of the rights issue. 
Taking all of the above into account I wont be asking HSDL to do anything more. It has 
added the correct number of Rolls Royce Ordinary shares to Mr Ms account and absorbed 
any charges associated with that. And it has also offered Mr M £100 for the upset that he 
has been caused. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and it is for him to decide 
whether to accept the £100 that has already been offered. 
I know Mr M feels very strongly about his complaint and no doubt my conclusion will be a 
disappointment to him. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached 
the decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and wont be asking                 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman