DRN-2126552
The complaint
Mr W complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group cancelled his car insurance 
policy but didnt tell him about his rights to cancel the policy himself.
What happened
Mr W says Adrian Flux cancelled this policy in 2017 due to poor driving behaviour. Hes had 
to pay increased premiums on his car insurance policies since this. He felt that he should 
have been told he could cancel the policy himself before it was cancelled. He also says there 
were some issues with the telematics box fitted to the car. He feels Adrian Flux should 
compensate him and record the policy as being cancelled by the customer.
Adrian Flux say Mr Ws policy was cancelled due to driving infringements between March 
2017 and April 2017 and he was sent correspondence several times informing him that he 
needed to charge the telematics box. It says there were periods in which the box was 
showing as having low battery or not being charged and transmitting. It also says Mr W 
contacted it twice to order new chargers after hed lost the previous ones. Adrian Flux say 
Mr W had links to the policy wording which confirmed his right to cancel  and the 
cancellation letter didnt say he couldnt cancel the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Adrian Flux had cancelled the 
policy fairly and hadnt seen any evidence that the telematics box wasnt functioning 
correctly, or that Mr W had reported any issues. She said Mr W had been provided with a 
copy of the policy wording which confirmed his rights to cancel.
Mr W didnt agree  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W took out a car insurance policy with Adrian Flux in 2016 which included a telematics 
box to monitor driving behaviour. This allows insurers to assess driving performance in a 
number of different ways and provide a driving score to the customer, which helps the 
insurer assess the risk over the life of the policy. Although the policy is underwritten by an 
insurer, Adrian Flux is responsible for any issues relating to the telematics box and the 
insurer has no involvement in this. 
When Mr Ws policy started, he was asked to agree to a declaration which contained a 
number of points. One of the points was that Mr W understood that it is an ongoing 
requirement of this insurance that the telematics device supplied must be correctly fitted, 
working and kept charged while the insured vehicle is in use or parked
The original documentation sent with the policy clearly provides cancellation rights in several 
places, including a reminder of Awareness of policy terms. This advises Mr W to read 
carefully the schedule, certificate and policy wording, as its the basis of the insurance 
contract purchased. So I do consider that Mr W had enough information available to him that 
he could have been aware of his right to cancel.
Adrian Flux contacted Mr W on several occasions to remind him to charge the box and there 
were times it was showing low battery or wasnt transmitting. I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr W reported to Adrian Flux that he felt the box wasnt working correctly and hes not 
pointed to any specific data records or events that he disputes. I can also see that Mr W 
himself has said that he cant argue that the policy was cancelled due to poor driving 
behaviour.
Mr W was sent a letter advising that the policy would be cancelled in seven days due to poor 
driving behaviour and Ive listened to a call he had with Adrian Flux when he was told about 
it. Mr W did ask if there was a way the cancellation could be reversed and was told there 
wasnt. Adrian Flux didnt discuss that Mr W could cancel the policy himself to avoid this  
but it was under no obligation to do so and Mr W didnt ask this.
I understand Mr W has told us he is dyslexic and was going through a particularly difficult 
time in his life during the period in which the policy was cancelled. Whilst I do sympathise 
with him, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Adrian Flux was aware of this and even if it had 
been, it would nevertheless be reasonable to expect Mr W to check his cover and make 
enquiries with Adrian Flux about any questions he may have had. 
Its unfortunate that Mr W may be affected by this going forward  but ultimately, the policy 
was cancelled due to his behaviour. Taking into account the policy terms and the 
circumstances at the time, in my judgment the way Adrian Flux dealt with Mr Ws policy was 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman