DRN-3663164
The complaint
J, a limited company, is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited turned down a claim it made on 
its commercial professional fees policy. 
What happened
In July 2020 J received a letter from solicitors alleging breach of contract in relation to work it 
had carried out and claiming damages. J made a claim on its policy the following month for 
assistance in defending this. Having checked with Js broker Ageas said cover under the 
policy ended in 2018. J then provided further information to show it did have a valid policy. 
Ageas accepted that and requested information in support of the claim so it could ask one of 
its panel solicitors to assess whether it had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement 
for cover to be provided). 
Once that information had been received Ageas asked a panel firm to consider it. At the end 
of October it identified additional evidence would be required which Ageas requested from J. 
That was provided at the start of December. Having reviewed it the panel firm concluded the 
claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. The claimant began court proceedings 
around the same time.
J provided an expert report in support of its position in early January which Ageas asked the 
panel firm to review. It accepted this increased the chances of being able to successfully 
defend the claim but noted the report wasnt based on a site visit (whereas evidence the 
claimant was relying on was). It set out what would be needed in order to demonstrate the 
claim did have prospects of success but said on the basis of the information currently 
available it didnt think that was the case. Ageas confirmed it wouldnt be providing cover. J 
agreed settlement of the claim with the claimant. 
J subsequently provided further information to Ageas and asked whether the claim could be 
reopened if it was able to obtain the evidence the panel firm had referenced. Ageas asked 
the panel firm for advice. The firm took some time to respond but then said it would be 
difficult to continue proceedings unless there was evidence of, for example, undue influence. 
And its view on prospects would in any case only change if the evidence it had previously 
asked for was provided. Unhappy with the handling of its claim J complained to Ageas. It 
thought failings on its part meant it had no choice but to agree settlement of the claim. Ageas 
didnt accept it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think there was delays in Ageass handling of the claim or that any 
failing on its part led to J having to agree settlement of the claim against it. He accepted 
there had been delay in further advice being provided by the panel firm but didnt think that 
had adversely affected J because settlement had already been agreed at the point that 
advice was sought.  
J didnt agree. It thought Ageas should have realised the panel firm didnt have the 
appropriate expertise to carry out an assessment of this claims prospects. It didnt think the 
panel firm had taken into account relevant regulations which it thought would have provided 
a strong defence to the claim against it. And it thought Ageas should have taken action in 
relation to this once it drew this to its attention. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Ageas has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive thought first about whether Ageas fairly turned down the claim J made. I can see the 
policy terms require there to be sufficient prospects of success in order for funding to be 
provided for a claim. So once policy coverage had been established (and evidence gathered 
in support of the claim) I think Ageas acted correctly in referring the matter to one of its panel 
solicitors so that could be assessed. 
And their view was the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of being successfully 
defended. I can see they maintained that position (and explained why) after having 
considered the expert report J provided in early January 2021.I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Ageas to have relied on those assessments. Ive read them and I think 
theyre properly written and reasoned and go into some detail about the reasons why it was 
unlikely the claim could be successfully defended. 
J says Ageas shouldnt have relied on that assessment because the solicitors involved didnt 
have relevant expertise. But I dont think thats right. I can see while the assessments were 
carried out by a trainee solicitor he was supervised by a partner in the panel firm. That 
partner (and his team) specialise in handling claims against construction professionals and 
design and build contracts. And its clear to me from the correspondence that the partner 
took an active part in reviewing the assessments that had been produced.  
J has also suggested in more recent correspondence with Ageas that the 2015 Construction 
Design and Management (CDM) regulations werent taken into account by the panel firm 
and Ageas should have picked up on this. And while Ageas did pass that correspondence on 
to the panel firm the legal assessments dont specifically refer to these regulations. 
However, as I understand it, J is suggesting the regulations mean particular responsibilities 
would fall on their client and they were therefore entitled to rely on his subsequent sign off of 
the work. But I understand the client in this case was a domestic client. And while I 
appreciate the 2015 regulations removed a previous exemption for domestic work, guidance 
from the Health and Safety Executive (Regulation 7 Application to Domestic Clients) says a 
domestic client is not required to carry out the duties in place for commercial clients in 
relation to managing projects, notification or general duties. It also says a domestic client's 
duties automatically pass to the contractor (if it is a single contractor project) or the principal 
contractor (for projects involving more than one contractor). 
In any event the question I need to consider isnt whether the legal advice on the claims 
prospects of success was correct but whether it was reasonable of Ageas to rely on it (and if 
it wasnt whether J has lost out as a result). I think the key issue here is what happened prior 
to J agreeing settlement of the claim. At that time the reference to the regulations is in the 
report from Js expert. That says a suitably qualified civil engineer wasnt appointed to 
design the work (as it requested) and its that which has led to the problem which have now 
occurred rather than a failing on Js part. And that issue is considered in the legal assessments from the panel firm. They 
acknowledge J wasnt responsible for the design work itself. However, they noted the claim 
made wasnt in relation to the design element of the project but alleged poor workmanship 
by J. And the expert report obtained by the claimant did identify what, in its view, the 
problem was and that this related to the area where J had carried out work.  It acknowledged 
the report provided by J did give other potential explanations for the problem but thought a 
Court was likely to prefer the advice obtained by the claimant given that was based on an 
inspection of the site. 
I appreciate J may well have a different view as to the cause of the underlying problem with 
the work that was carried out. But, as Ive said, what I need to consider is whether it was 
reasonable of Ageas to rely on the advice provided by the panel firm. I think the points raised 
by J and its expert at the time are covered by the response from the panel firm and so I dont 
think there is more that Ageas should have done to follow these up. If J does have any 
additional new evidence that it wants to present to Ageas about the prospects of success of 
the claim it can do so. But I think it was reasonable of Ageas to rely on the advice it did have 
that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of being successfully defended.
J also raised concerns about the time taken for Ageas to progress the claim. I recognise it 
did take some time from when the claim was first made in August 2020 for the initial 
prospects assessment to be reached. But I dont think theres evidence of significant delay 
by Ageas in progressing matters. I appreciate it initially said J didnt have a valid policy but 
that appears to have been based on information provided by its broker. Once that issue was 
resolved it identified additional evidence that would be required for the claim to be assessed 
and let J know what that was. And when that was received it referred the matter to panel 
solicitors for them assess whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
The panel solicitors felt that further information was required and while there does appear to 
have been a slight delay in that being passed on to J by Ageas I dont think that caused a 
significant delay to the overall progress of the claim. And once the panel firm had reached its 
view on the claims prospects of success I can see that was promptly communicated to J by 
Ageas. 
J provided an expert report in January 2021 and Ageas referred that to the panel firm for 
further assessment and also asked for additional comment on points J subsequently raised 
within a reasonable timeframe. There was clearly a significant delay in a response being 
provided to the questions J then raised after a settlement had been agreed but I can see 
Ageas was proactive in chasing matters up with the panel firm. So Im not persuaded its 
responsible for this issue. In any event as settlement of the claim had already been agreed 
at that point I agree with our investigator this cant have impacted on Js decision to agree 
that. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask J to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman