DRN-2311023
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as AA Account failed to provide account 
information to him.
What happened
Mr K says he asked AA Account for information about his two accounts and for any money in 
them to be sent to him. He says he received money from one of the accounts but didnt 
receive any information about the other. He also says AA Account said it would send him 
£75 compensation, but he didnt receive it. Mr K says in any event that compensation award 
is not enough and says he was paid £75 compensation for a similar problem in 2013.
AA Account accepts it didnt respond to Mr Ks request and has apologised. It says it has 
now provided him with the information about his accounts and explained what happened to 
his money. AA Account says it has offered £75 compensation for what took place.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought AA Account had made a 
mistake but had apologised for that and paid a fair and reasonable amount of £75 
compensation. The investigator also thought AA Account had now given Mr K the account 
information he wanted.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and says he has not received the £75 and says, as this is the 
second time the same mistake has happened, he should receive more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that AA Account has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount and by 
apologising for what took place. I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no real dispute here that Mr K asked for information about his accounts, but AA 
Account didnt provide all of the information. I am sure Mr K was caused inconvenience in 
having to ask AA Account for that information again and I am also sure he was caused some 
distress by the lack of information. But I dont think the lack of information would have had a 
significant impact on Mr K and I dont think that he has suffered any real financial loss. So, 
for those reasons I think the compensation offered by AA Account is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr K says he suffered a similar problem in 2013. But we consider each 
complaint individually and assess the impact any mistakes had on a customer. So, I dont 
think it matters what took place some seven years ago and that 2013 award doesnt set a 
precedent for future awards.
I also appreciate that Mr K says he hasnt received the £75 compensation. I hope AA 
Account will check its records and should be able to issue a replacement cheque to Mr K if it 
still hasnt been received.
Overall, I accept AA Account made a mistake, but Im satisfied it has now given Mr K the 
account information he wanted and acted fairly by apologising and paying appropriate 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman