DRN-4380789
The complaint
Mr E complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) lent 
irresponsibly when it approved his credit card application. 
What happened
Mr E applied for a credit card with Amex in April 2022. In his application, Mr E advised he 
was employed full time with an income of £10,4000 a year. Amex says it looked at the 
information included in Mr Es application and carried out a credit search. Amex says it found 
outstanding unsecured credit totalling around £20,000 and took this into account when 
considering Mr Es application. 
Amex applied its lending criteria and approved a credit card with a credit limit of £15,000. 
Earlier this year, Mr E contacted Amex to say he was having trouble maintaining the monthly 
payments due to financial difficulties. Mr E has explained that when he applied for the credit 
card with Amex he was working a full time role paying £30,000 a year and a short term 
contract that made up the remaining income hed declared. Mr E raised a complaint that 
Amex had lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card application. 
Amex issued a final response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Amex added that Mr 
E had contacted it at the start of March 2023 and advised he was able to maintain the 
minimum payment each month and had no arrears or missed payments. Amex said that in 
the circumstances, it was unable to manage Mr Es account via its debt management or 
financial difficulty process. 
Mr E referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator wasnt persuaded Amex had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr E asked to appeal and said Amex had made no attempts to verify his income or whether 
he was working on a permanent basis. Mr E added that when his temporary contract ended 
his income reduced which meant the interest costs each month were causing financial 
difficulties. Mr E didnt agree that Amex had lent responsibly and asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
In short, before agreeing to lend, Amex needed to complete proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether the borrowing was sustainable for Mr E. Theres no specific list of 
checks a lender has to complete. While it is down to the lender to decide what specific 
checks to carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, 
the total cost of the credit and what it knew about Mr E at the time of application.
I think its fair to start by saying Amex had a reasonable expectation that Mr E would provide 
accurate information about his income and circumstances during the application process. 
Ive looked at Mr Es application and can see that he gave his residential status as living with 
family. Mr E also gave the name of his employer, job type which was a senior position, and 
an income of £104,000. In the application, Mr E said he was employed full time. Mr Es 
subsequently explained that his income was declared at that level due to a temporary 
contract he was working at the time and that he actually earned around £30,000. But looking 
at the employer recorded in the application and role Mr E said he held, I think Amex 
reasonably accepted the information he provided about his income. I wouldnt expect Amex 
to have known Mr Es income was made up of two jobs, one a temporary contract, based on 
what he said in the application. In my view, Amex reasonably accepted the information Mr E 
provided about his income in the credit card application. 
Amex has also provided a copy of the credit search it completed when Mr E applied. It 
shows Mr E owed around £20,000 to unsecured creditors and that all accounts were up to 
date. Ive reviewed the information available to Amex and Im satisfied it had an accurate 
picture of what Mr E owed at the time of his application and the payments he was making 
each month. Im satisfied Amex factored the cost of servicing Mr Es existing debts when 
considering his application. 
Overall, I havent seen anything that wouldve caused Amex to ask additional questions or 
carry out further checks like looking at Mr Es bank statements or requesting evidence of his 
income. In my view, the level of checks Amex completed was proportionate to the 
application he made and reasonable. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr E but I havent been 
persuaded that Amex lent irresponsibly in this case. 
When Mr E contacted Amex earlier this year and reported his income had dropped it looked 
at his circumstances. Mr E advised he was able to maintain the monthly minimum payment 
but was struggling with the level of interest applied each month. In Amexs final response it 
confirmed that at the time of issue it wasnt able to manage Mr Es account via its financial 
difficulty process at that time. But Amex added that if Mr E could make contact again to 
discuss his circumstances, adding that any payment plan he agrees may have implications 
for his credit file. In my opinion, Amex had clearly explained its position and Im satisfied its 
confirmed Mr E can request further support in the future if hes unable to maintain payments. 
Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr E but as I havent found evidence to support Amex lent 
irresponsibly and Im satisfied its treated him fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman