DRN-3817555
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Mulberry Wealth Management Limited (MWM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was flawed and believes this has caused a significant 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) 
(the DB pension scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred to 
possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer 
to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr C approached MWM in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
was concerned about the situation with his employer and the BSPS scheme. Both of which 
were experiencing difficulties at the time. 
MWM completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that Mr C was 31 years old, living with his partner and two young 
dependent children. He was employed earning around £34,000. His partner was also 
employed full time and was a member of her employers DB scheme. Their residence was 
valued at £130,000 and was subject to a mortgage of £90,000. They had a modest amount 
of other credit. They held £5,000 on deposit with no other savings or investments
In respect of Mr Cs pension benefits: 
Mr C had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value Quotation (CETV) dated 7 November 
2017. The CETV was about £92,000. It also showed that Mr C had just over nine years 
service in the scheme and the pension at the date of leaving was £4,300 per year. 
Mr C was also a member of his employers defined contribution (DC) scheme and he and 
his employer were contributing a combined 16% of his salary into this. And he had a modest 
stakeholder pension, the value of which I understand was around £10,000. Mr C was given 
advice about this by MWM but this advice hasnt formed part of this complaint. 
MWM also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it said was 4 on a 
scale of 1 to 5 or moderate to adventurous. 
On 3 December 2017, MWM advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in line with his attitude to risk. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were that it would help him to retire early, at age 61 if 
possible. He wanted to control his pension fund and take benefits when and how it suited 
him. For example, he could take ad hoc tax-free cash or an income, rather than the fixed tax-
free cash and income amounts the DB scheme would provide. And he could sever the link 
between his pension and his employer. He did not trust the scheme, or his employer, to run 
the scheme efficiently. 
Mr C complained in 2021 to MWM about the suitability of the transfer advice because he felt 
that he would be unable to match the benefits he would have received from the BSPS2 in a 
personal pension. And so, he shouldnt have been advised to transfer.
MWM didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that it had acted with reasonable skill and care 
when it advised Mr C. It provided full information to him and explained why it thought the 
transfer was suitable. Mr C had some antipathy to his employer and the scheme and he 
wouldnt join the BSPS2. The BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead in any event. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that MWM pay compensation. He didnt think that Mr C wanted, or had the 
capacity, to materially risk his pension provision. And if he had been given the reassurances 
and information that he should have been, then he would have likely ended up moving to the 
BSPS2. 
MWM disagreed and its representative at the time provided a detailed response to the 
Investigators opinion which I have read. I wont summarise all of this letter (as MWMs 
position has now changed) but in summary it thought that the advice it gave was suitable for 
Mr C and it complied with the regulations at the time. Mr C was given enough information to 
enable him to make an informed choice, which he did. And has now more likely than not 
changed his mind about this. 
And Mr Cs representative said that the notional 15% reduction to the redress in relation to 
the tax-free cash wasnt reasonable. It thought this should be calculated after fees and 
charges had been taken from the fund. And made some further comment on the proposed 
compensation and the changes the FCA was making to this. 
There was some further correspondence, but the Investigator wasnt persuaded to change 
their opinion. And there were no new issues raised. Both sides were informed at this time 
that an Ombudsman would consider the complaint in due course. 
Moving forward the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator. In its most recent correspondences MWM has confirmed 
that if a decision specifies that redress is calculated using this, and the consumer accepts it, 
then it would be prepared to do a loss calculation using this calculator. And pay any 
compensation that is now due.   
That said both parties to the complaint have indicated that an ombudsman should consider 
this complaint to finalise matters and Ive done this below. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, MWM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that MWM was required to carry out by 
the regulator, calculated various critical yields. These show how much Mr Cs 
pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits 
as his DB scheme. Mr C was 31 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 61. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 65 was 4.85% if he took a 
full pension and 4.2% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The same 
calculations for his age 61 were 5.15% and 4.46%. And the critical yield to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.52% per year if Mr C took a full 
pension and 4.33% per year if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. Again, 
the same amounts at his age 61 were 4.91% and 4.72%.
The discount rate was 4.7% for 34 and 39 years to retirement. Looking at the critical 
yields they seem to be around, but slightly above, the discount rate. So, it may be the 
case that Mr C could replicate the benefits he gave up from the DB scheme. But 
there would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. And this seems to be the case here. And in the personal pension there 
would be a significant risk that hed get lower benefits. And Im not fully persuaded 
that Mr C wanted to take this risk, his attitude to risk was fairly high but there is little 
to support that he wanted to take a significant risk with his pension planning. 
And the suitability report noted that if Mr C transferred to a personal pension and 
invested in line with his attitude to risk then he may receive benefits similar in value 
to those he was giving up. But it also said that Returns, however, are not linear and 
at some point, were you to transfer your fund out now and invest until age 65 then 
take withdrawals, if growth is then not sufficient or charges erode the value of those 
returns, then it is possible that your transferred fund could run out of money.
Overall, I dont think the transfer was suitable for Mr C because of the risk that he 
would receive lower pension benefits. 
MWM said the transfer was suitable for Mr C as it allowed him to potentially retire 
early and to access his pension flexibly. And he was prepared to receive a lower 
income to do this. It is true to say the personal pension could be more flexible, as 
from the DB scheme Mr C would have to take any tax-free cash he wanted at the 
same time as he took an income. He wouldnt have had to do this in the personal 
pension. 
But the first problem with this is that Mr C was only 31 at the time of the advice, and 
based on what Ive seen he, understandably, didnt have any defined retirement 
plans. Other than a want to retire early, if possible, which I would think most people 
would express a preference for. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would be. I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. 
And if MWM had advised Mr C to stay in the BSPS2 and he decided he needed 
greater flexibility than the scheme provided later on, then he could have chosen to 
transfer from that scheme nearer to his retirement age.
Secondly, I understand that Mr C and his employer had begun contributing to a 
recently set up DC pension scheme. Mr C and his employer were together 
contributing around 16% of Mr Cs salary to that pension. Given the amounts that 
were being invested, that his salary and contributions would likely increase over time 
and investment returns would increase all of this, Mr C would likely build up a 
significant amount of money in the DC scheme. 
This would provide Mr C with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take the benefits in a 
set way. Mr C could have taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the 
income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr C retained his DB 
pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, would have likely given him 
the flexibility to retire early - if that was what he ultimately decided to do. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr C needed to transfer to increase the flexibility in 
how he took his pension benefits at this time.
It was documented at the time of sale that the spouses pension the DB scheme had 
would not pass to his partner, as they were not married. And Mr C said he liked the idea that he could pass the fund on to his partner and maybe his children. But the 
priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement. 
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr C drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr C may have thought it would. 
If Mr C had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, MWM couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had disposable income through which 
he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been considered on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's 
little evidence MWM did so. 
And in any event, it would seem that Mr C and his partner had already significant 
provision in place. The point of sale documentation shows that they both had death in 
service benefits with their employer of around four times their salaries. And they had 
started life cover in respect of their mortgage. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately MWM should not have 
encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Cs desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on 
the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr C may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was MWMs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr C with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr C was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Cs best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr C wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr C received from MWM was 
unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that MWM also pay Mr C £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr C said that finding out that he may be worse off in retirement has 
cause him stress and anxiety. I dont doubt that Mr C has been caused concern in relation to 
his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for employees of the company he 
worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. 
And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
MWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what MWM based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MWM should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts MWMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, MWM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. I've thought about Mr C's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr C would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr C 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr C for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
MWM should pay also Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience the poor advice has 
caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman