DRN-4138913
The complaint
Ms V is unhappy that she was unable to use her policy as Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) 
didnt respond to her.
What happened
Ms V took out a private medical insurance policy through Vitality.
In 2022, she obtained a referral to see a specialist and contacted Vitality to see a consultant. 
Vitality agreed Ms V could see a consultant and sent her details via email. 
Ms V didnt receive any contact from the consultant and chased Vitality for assistance but 
didnt hear back. 
Ms V made a complaint to Vitality and referred her complaint to this Service when Vitality 
didnt respond within 8 weeks. 
Vitality issued a final response after the case was referred to this Service. It apologised and 
offered Ms V £100 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found £100 was reasonable for Vitalitys 
service failures. 
Ms V disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Our investigator referred to other similar cases but Ms V wasnt given an opportunity 
to see what was considered. The decision should be based on the facts of Ms Vs 
case. 
The evidence supplied wasnt read properly. 
The responsibility for ensuring the appointment was made rested with Vitality and it 
gave express instructions for Ms V to wait for the consultant to confirm the 
appointment. 
Vitality didnt contact Ms V to help her find an alternative provider. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision, which I adopt as my final decision, on 28 April 2023. Ive 
set it out in full below. Neither party responded to my decision but Ive considered all of the 
available evidence again. 
Having done so, I think Vitalitys offer of £100 compensation is reasonable and so I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. My provisional decision explained why:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And should provide appropriate advice and guidance. 
Timeline 
In 2022 Ms V contacted Vitality as she had a referral to see a specialist. 
8 June  Vitality sent Ms V details of three recognised consultants. Ms V made a 
selection on the same day and received an email asking her to wait for the consultant 
to confirm the appointment. 
Vitalitys email also included an email address and a number for Ms V to call if she 
hadnt heard back from her consultant within 36 hours. 
9 June  Vitality emailed Ms V and said it had attempted to contact the selected 
medical professional but hadnt received a response. It provided an email address in 
case Ms V wanted to choose a different specialist. It said if the specialist didnt action 
the appointment request, it would contact Ms V directly to help her find an alternative. 
5 and 28 July  Ms V sent emails to Vitality to ask for updates however she replied to 
its earlier email rather than using the specific email address provided by Vitality for 
queries. 
August  Ms V made a complaint and said she had contacted Vitality many times. 
She no longer needed the appointment but was unhappy that she was ignored. 
5 September  Vitality emailed Ms V to acknowledge her complaint. And said it would 
contact her soon. It sent her an update on 26 September to say it was still 
investigating her concerns. 
17 October  Ms V emailed Vitality and asked for a reply. 
19 October  Vitality responded to say it was still investigating her concerns, it 
apologised and said it would contact her as soon as it had an outcome. 
24 October  Further email from Vitality to say it was still investigating the complaint 
but Ms V could refer her complaint to this Service. 
3 November  Vitality sent its response to Ms V and offered £100 compensation.
Ms V confirmed she had received £100 from Vitality but this hadnt resolved her complaint. 
Ive carefully considered whether the compensation amount offered by Vitality is reasonable, 
taking into consideration the comments made by Ms V. She says Vitality didnt do what it 
said it would do. And I agree. It said it would contact her and help her to find an alternative 
provider but failed to do so. Even though Vitality isnt responsible for the consultants failure 
to contact Ms V, it did promise that it would contact her to find another provider if the 
consultant didnt action her appointment request. It should have made contact with Ms V as 
promised and in failing to do so, Ms V was left frustrated and had to chase. 
Ive also thought about whether Ms V could have done anything differently when Vitality 
didnt contact her. Ms V did chase via email twice in July but she didnt use the email address provided by Vitality in the earlier email, instead she responded to the email address 
she received emails from. In addition, there was an option to use the member zone but I 
havent seen any evidence that Ms V did this. 
Vitality also provided a telephone number but due to wait times, Ms V wasnt able to hold for 
long times. Vitality apologised for this in its final response letter which it sent in November. It 
sent Ms V updates as promised in relation to the complaint and provided appropriate 
information and referred her to this Service. 
So overall, I think its more likely than not that Vitality would have replied to Ms Vs chasers 
in July had she used the specific email address it had provided for queries. I say this 
because when Ms V used the complaints email address, Vitality responded quickly. On that 
basis, I agree that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint to reflect the frustration and inconvenience Ms V felt when Vitality didnt contact 
her. But I dont think she sent her chasers to the correct email address which explains why 
she didnt get a response. 
Ms V would like her premiums refunded for the year but Vitality was on risk during that time 
for any other eligible healthcare concerns Ms V may have had  even if Ms V didnt use the 
policy for anything else  so I dont think its fair or reasonable for any premiums to be 
refunded. 
Ms V is unhappy that our investigator referred to other cases. All final decisions and 
compensation guidelines are published and available on our website. But to reassure Ms V, I 
have based my decision on the specific facts of her case only. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman