DRN-3170281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money acted unfairly 
when it refused to waive an early repayment charge (ERC) when they redeemed their 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H received an offer of loan from Virgin Money in December 2017. This provided 
for a fixed rate for an initial period until March 2023. And it provided that an ERC would be 
payable if the mortgage product was redeemed during that period.
Mr and Mrs H put their house on the market in February 2020 as they had seen a new 
property they wanted to buy. And they quickly received an offer and contacted Virgin Money 
about porting the mortgage to the new property. But they say that they were told that Virgin 
Money wasnt able to value properties due to Covid 19. So they were told that if they moved 
their mortgage to a new lender Virgin Money would waive the ERC.
Mr and Mrs H found a new lender, but the sale of their property then fell through. And by the 
time they had found new buyers in September 2020 their mortgage offer from the new lender 
had expired. So they contacted a different lender to obtain a new offer. And they 
subsequently contacted Virgin Money to arrange a redemption statement and the waiver of 
the ERC. But, at that stage, they were told that Virgin Money was no longer willing to waive 
the ERC.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Virgin Money. But Virgin Money didnt uphold their complaint. It 
said, in summary: 
It hadnt been able to locate a call that confirmed that it had advised Mr and Mrs H 
that it would waive the ERC. But it accepted that it had made similar offer to other 
customers in similar positions. So it didnt dispute that it might have said this;
It couldnt see that Mr and Mrs H had contacted it when the application with the first 
lender expired to see if it could proceed with an application and a possible policy 
exception. As the mortgage had not been redeemed this remained an option;
It understood that Mr and Mrs H wished to continue with the application they had in 
place with the second lender. This was an informed choice they were making in how 
they wanted to proceed;
The request to have the ERC waived had been reviewed by senior members of the 
team but had been declined. 
Mr and Mrs H continued with the other mortgage and redeemed their mortgage with Virgin 
Money in February 2021. And they incurred an ERC of around £10,250. 
Our investigator felt that Virgin Money had dealt with Mr and Mrs Hs complaint fairly. 
 But they dont agree with his view, and so their complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, my decision relates to Mr and Mrs Hs original complaint 
regarding whether Virgin Money should have waived the ERC. I note that Mr H has now 
raised some concerns regarding the calculation of the ERC in his response to our 
investigator but, as the investigator explained, if he wants to raise this issue he will need to 
do so as a separate complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the Offer of Loan dated 13 December 2017. This sets out the terms of 
the offer. And it provides that an ERC will be payable if Mr and Mrs H repay their mortgage 
before March 2023. So Im satisfied that Virgin Money had the right under the Offer of Loan 
to charge an ERC in these circumstances.
Mr H says that he spoke to Virgin Money in March or April 2020. And as Virgin Money wasnt 
able to value properties at that time due to the pandemic, he says that it offered to waive the 
ERC if he chose to re-mortgage with another provider. But he says that Virgin Money didnt 
tell him that the offer to waive the ERC was time limited. 
I note that, although Virgin Money hasnt been able to find any record of the call, it doesnt 
dispute that it happened. And Ive considered what Mr H says he was told on the call. But, as 
our investigator has explained, while Virgin Money may not have said that the offer was time 
limited, there is no indication that they said it was open ended either. The offer was made at 
the beginning of the pandemic when it wasnt able to value properties and proceed with the 
porting process. Im persuaded that it was fair for it to offer to do so at that time. But Mr and 
Mrs Hs sale fell through and when they were able to proceed in September/October 2020 
the country was in a different position. And I agree with our investigator that it would have 
been reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs H to have contacted Virgin Money at that point to see 
if they were now able to carry out valuations to allow them to port the mortgage and avoid 
the ERC.
In reaching this view Ive taken account of the fact that the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs H had 
secured from another lender after speaking to Virgin Money in March/April 2020 had expired. 
So I dont think it would have been any more difficult for them to contact Virgin Money at that 
time rather than a new lender. And, although I understand that Mr H felt that Virgin Moneys 
lending criteria had changed and that they may not have accepted his application, as he 
didnt make an application at that time I cant be sure what the outcome would have been. 
So this doesnt change my decision.
Mr H feels that Virgin Money should have written to him to let him know that its offer to waive 
the ERC was expiring. But, although Ive considered what he has to say, Im not persuaded 
that this would be reasonable in the circumstances. Virgin Money would not have known that 
Mr and Mrs H were continuing with their sale and purchase until Mr H contacted them again 
in October 2020 to request a redemption statement. And, although I appreciate that the 
delay in selling the property wasnt Mr and Mrs Hs fault, it wasnt Virgin Moneys fault either. 
So Im persuaded for the reasons set out above that Mr and Mrs H should have checked that 
the offer to waive the ERC still applied at the time they approached a second lender.
Finally I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy with the time it took Virgin Money to respond to his 
complaint and that, when it did, it explained that the outcome was never going to change as 
it had already been referred to senior management. But from the information available to me 
Im persuaded that Virgin Money responded within the timeframe allowed by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. And, while I acknowledge that it must have been frustrating to hear that the decision was never going to change, I am not persuaded that Virgin Money has acted 
incorrectly. So I dont find it reasonable to require Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman