DRN-1319922
 
The complaint
Miss P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to make a CHAPS payment 
from her account in a timely way.
What happened
Miss P brought her concerns to us as she was unhappy with the response shed had from 
Barclays. She was concerned about delays in making a CHAPS payment after shed been 
into branch on 4 July 2019 and given instructions for this to take place. Payment was finally 
made on 8 July 2019 and confirmed the day after but not before Miss P had made a number 
of further trips to Barclays.
In their Final Response Letter (FRL) of 18 July 2019 Barclays said they agreed with the 
complaint and said the reason the CHAPS payment was initially unsuccessful was due to the 
member of staff sending the fax to their International Department omitting Miss Ps original 
request. They apologised for the upset and inconvenience caused by this and for their failure 
to call Miss P to tell her the payment request had failed and they  credited the sum of £50 to 
her account to compensate for this. 
Our investigator found Barclays payment of £50 compensation didnt reflect the trouble their 
mistakes had caused to Miss P as she had to chase the matter herself and visit another 
branch. He thought Barclays should pay Miss P an extra £75 compensation, bringing the 
total to £125, to apologise for the trouble theyd caused her. 
Miss P didnt agree. She thought a simple CHAPS transfer, even for a high amount, should 
happen on the same day not take six days with multiple visits to the bank. She detailed the 
four visits shed made to the branches between 4 and 9 July 2019 along with the amount of 
time shed spent there. She said it was similar to a mistake Barclays had made in March 
2019 and told us she thought the least Barclays could do was to pay her expenses.
Barclays agreed to the increased payment of compensation and requested Miss Ps details 
for payments as she no longer held an account with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should be clear in this decision Im only considering the mistake Barclays made in 
July 2019 when making a CHAPS payment for Miss P. Im aware shes concerned with 
similar issues that arose when she made a payment in March 2019 but as the investigator 
has explained these issues have been dealt with in another complaint to this service. So I 
cant consider those issues from March 2019 as part of this complaint. 
Barclays agree the amount of time it took to process this CHAPS was unacceptable and 
thats caused Miss P upset and inconvenience. The payment was finally made but what isnt agreed is what compensation should be paid. Barclays have apologised and explained how 
and why the problems occurred. But, like the investigator and Miss P, I dont think their initial 
payment of £50 compensation is a proper reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused at the time.
Barclays mistake inconvenienced Miss P, but I cant see theres been any loss to her. I 
know she thinks Barclays should pay her expenses and has suggested a payment of £1000 
is in order to cover her trip. Miss P told us she was sure anyone in her position would travel 
to the UK if, a few months before, theyd experienced similar delays. But I disagree and I'll 
explain why. 
It was Miss Ps choice to travel to the UK and had the CHAPS completed on the same 
day she would still have incurred her travel costs. Also, I cant see anything to show her trip 
was exclusively for the purposes of making this transfer. But, even if that had been the case, 
I cant see that Miss P warned Barclays this was her intention and discussed any 
alternatives with them. So, for those reasons I dont think its reasonable for Barclays to bear 
the cost of Miss Ps travel expenses. 
The total award of £125 suggested here is the sort of award Id have made in these 
circumstances had it not already been offered. Taking that into account and in light of our 
general level of awards Im satisfied that a further £75 compensation - making a total of £125 
- is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss P a 
further £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman