DRN-2009896
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society has treated him unfairly in relation to his 
Nationwide branded home insurance policy.
What happened
Nationwide made a commercial decision to change the insurance company which 
underwrites its home insurance policy. In doing so, it agreed terms with the new underwriter 
that allowed Nationwide members - taking out the new home insurance policy, to receive a 
25% discount on the annual cost of their policy. 
As an existing policy holder Mr H hasnt benefitted from this discount when his policy was 
renewed following the change of underwriter. And - as a result, he says Nationwide is 
favouring new members over existing members which he says it always pledged not to do. 
Nationwide says that the discount is available to all members. But to benefit Mr H would 
need to cancel his existing policy and take out one of the new ones. This is because the 
benefit doesnt apply to members renewing an existing policy. But it says that the two 
policies are not like for like. And it said Mr H would need to ensure that the new policy 
meets his needs. Mr H didnt accept this and referred his complaint to us as per Nationwides 
final response letter.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. But she didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. She said  in summary, that businesses often discount the cost of products 
to attract new business. She also added that Mr H wasnt locked into his existing policy and 
can swap to benefit from discount if he felt the new policy met his needs. 
Mr H disagreed. He said that all existing policy holders should receive the discount on 
renewal as well as new policy holders. And he asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
The investigator responded to say that Nationwide made a commercial decision to change 
the product it was offering and the terms on which it was provided and this wasnt a decision 
we could interfere with. Mr H again disagreed pointing out that Nationwide had referred him 
to our service so the complaint was within our remit.
As Mr H disagreed with our investigator. The complaint has come to me to review and issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. I know  Mr 
H will be disappointed as I can see how strongly he feels about this matter, so Ill explain 
why.I appreciate that Mr H brought his complaint to this service as Nationwide gave him referral 
rights to do so in its final response letter. And Nationwide is obliged to give referral rights in 
these circumstances. But that doesn't mean we have a free hand to deal with every aspect 
of a complaint. In Mr H's case, I should explain that we are not the industry regulator and we 
dont regulate insurance pricing or tell a business how much it can charge for its policies. 
As an impartial service, our role is to look at the events complained about and decide if the 
business complained about has done something wrong. We take into account any 
regulations, laws and good business practice that is applicable. So I could only uphold this 
complaint if I thought Nationwide had done something wrong.  
But having thought about the points Mr H has raised, I don't think Nationwide has done 
anything wrong. Businesses regularly offer introductory discounts to new customers. We 
dont consider this to be unfair as a business is entitled to offer rates to increase its sales. 
And I havent seen anything to persuade me that Nationwide should offer Mr H the discount 
on renewal of his existing policy. 
I accept that Mr H isnt eligible for the discount under his existing policy as on this basis hes 
not a new policy holder. But I can see that Nationwide has said that Mr H could benefit from 
the discount should he decide to cancel his existing policy and take out one of the new ones. 
So I don't think Nationwide is treating him differently to new policy holders. But should Mr H 
consider this I would urge him to ensure that the new policy meets his needs as adequately 
as the existing policy before doing so. 
In light of the above, I dont think Nationwide has treated Mr H unfairly. So I wont be asking 
it to take any further action in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24September2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman