DRN-3478451
The complaint
Mr M complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined a claim 
against his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out pet insurance with LV for his dog on 18 February 2021. Mr M had free 
insurance cover before this with another provider, but decided to purchase a new policy with 
LV. 
Mr M made a claim for treatment following a skin condition. LV say the condition was first 
noticed and treatment took place within the first 14 days of the policy starting. They pointed 
to the policy exclusions and declined the claim. 
Mr M wasnt happy and complained. He says he had previous cover in place and was 
disadvantaged by switching to LV. He says the exclusion should apply to pet owners taking 
out insurance to claim for known conditions, not his circumstances. He also says theres an 
industry-wide issue with pet insurance. 
LV responded to the complaint in November 2021 maintaining their position. As Mr M 
remained unhappy, he approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought LV assessed and declined the claim fairly and reasonably. As such, she didnt think 
LV should take any action. Mr M didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says: 
General exclusions 
We wont cover you for any claim that is caused by or in any way related to any part 
of the following. 
 
2. Any illness or behavioural problem, or any signs of an illness or behavioural 
problem that occurs in the first 14 days immediately following the start date of the 
policy.  
The policy started on 18 February 2021. The clinical notes say Mr Ms dog had been 
Scratching at ears and sides for about a week, on 26 February 2021. This indicates signs of 
the condition were present roughly a week prior to this date. Mr Ms email to LV in November 
2021 also confirms he first noticed skin irritation on 22 February 2021, with the first treatment 
date being 26 February 2021. 
It's clear in my view both signs of the condition and the first treatment date fell within the first 
14 days of the policy starting. So, I dont think LV acted unfairly when relying on the 
exclusion cited above to decline the claim. 
I do understand why Mr M thinks the exclusion should not apply to him acting as a 
responsible pet owner, and only to those who take out insurance to claim for a known 
condition. He also says given he had previous free cover in place, the cover was continuous 
to avoid a gap in cover. But the policy taken out with LV was a new contract of insurance so, 
whilst I do understand Mr Ms arguments, I dont think that makes a material difference here. 
The exclusion LV relied on isnt uncommon. In fact, its included in most, if not all, pet 
insurance policies Ive seen. 
Ive also thought about whether I think LV clearly highlighted the exclusion to Mr M. The 
policy schedule says medical conditions that occurred or existed before or within the first 14 
days of the policy starting arent covered. The statement of fact suggests Mr M understood 
and accepted the same. And the Insurance Product Information Document  which 
summarises key policy information  also confirms this. So, Im satisfied LV made the 
exclusion clear to Mr M. 
Therefore, for the reasons Ive mentioned above, I think LV declined the claim fairly and 
reasonably, so I wont be directing them to do anything further. 
I note Mr M also requested we consider the wider practice of the pet insurance industry and 
vets offering free pet insurance through an expensive provider, and his concerns with the 
industry not being customer focused. Were not the regulator, so I havent gone on to 
consider Mr Ms concerns regarding the wider industry practices, or the arrangement of his 
previous free insurance cover with another provider. My role here is to consider his 
complaint about LV in respect of the declined claim. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with LV  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman