DRN-1320104
 
The complaint
Miss F says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford.
What happened 
Sunny gave Miss F four loans in May 2018. Heres a table showing the loan details:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest *
Repayment
1 20/05/2018 27/07/2018 6 £100 £24.83
2 21/05/2018 27/07/2018 6 £50 £37.10
3 23/05/2018 27/07/2018 6 £100 £61.41
4 26/05/2018 21/09/2018 6 £200 £111.31
*combined repayments on overlapping loans
Miss F complained that the loan repayments left her with too little money and resulted in her 
having to borrow from other lenders. She told us she was unable to afford to travel to work 
and that whats happened has affected her mental health.
Our adjudicator didnt feel that hed seen enough to say it was unfair for Sunny to provide 
loans 1 - 3 to Miss F. But he thought that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent to her  and he 
explained how hed come to this view. 
Our adjudicator also gave some detailed instructions about the way he thought Sunny 
should settle the complaint. 
When Sunny looked at Miss Fs complaint, it said that it had carried out full affordability 
checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. In particular, Sunny said that 
it couldnt see that Miss F struggled to meet her repayments on loan 4 and it thought that a 
borrowing relationship that lasted approximately four months wasnt long enough to be able 
to conclude that Miss F was developing a reliance on Sunny loans.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.
Looking at the first three loans, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask 
Miss F for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
These loans all looked affordable for Miss F, based on what shed said to Sunny about her 
finances - even taking into account the combined monthly repayments. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that there isnt enough information for me to be able to say that Sunny shouldnt 
have lent Miss F any of the first three loans. Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Miss Fs borrowing 
record that she was likely having money problems. 
I say this because when she asked for loan 4, Miss F already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny, all taken out within a few days of each other - and now she was 
asking for further borrowing, less than a week after shed taken her first Sunny loan. 
Although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Miss Fs borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. Although loan 2 
was for just £50, I think the fact that loan 4 was for twice the amount of loans 1 and 3, (both 
taken out within the last six days) was a clear warning sign  that despite what shed told 
Sunny about her finances, Miss F was having serious problems managing her money.
Ive taken into account everything Sunny has told us, including what it said in response to 
our adjudicators view. But not falling into arrears with loan repayments doesnt mean that 
the loan repayments were sustainably affordable for Miss F. And for the reasons I've 
explained, I think Sunny shouldve realised that loan 4 wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Miss F.
So Im upholding Miss Fs complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Miss F towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, but not including anything already refunded
 
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss F which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss F originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled
 
F) pay Miss F the total of A plus B
 
D) remove any adverse information Sunny recorded on Miss Fs credit file in relation to 
loan 4. 
 
*HMRC requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. If Miss F asks Sunny for a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off, Sunny should provide this. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint about loan 4. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out 
above to put things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman