DRN-2329755
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc declined an account application and wont provide 
him with a proper explanation why. He says Santander has treated him unfairly and 
discriminated against him
What happened
Mr K is a member of a community band. In May 2019, Mr K approached Santander about 
opening a treasurers account for his band. Mr K completed application forms and provided 
the bank with all the information it requested. But after pre-application checks Santander 
decided it couldnt offer Mr K an account. 
Mr K complained to Santander and said hed been put to a lot of trouble pulling together all 
the information the bank wanted. And felt the bank had discriminated against him and his 
band on the grounds of religious and political beliefs. Santander reviewed its decision and 
decided to offer Mr K an account. It also offered Mr K £200 compensation for not telling Mr K 
it had declined his application sooner than it did, which had caused Mr K inconvenience in 
having to provide quite a bit of information to support his application.
Mr K accepted Santanders offer. But still wanted to know the reason Santander didnt want 
his band as a customer. Santander said it wasnt obliged to provide an explanation. Unhappy 
with this response Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Hes wants Santander to 
provide a proper explanation why it declined his application. He believes that the bank has 
treated him unfairly based on his religious and political beliefs. 
When Mr K referred his complaint to this service one of our investigators considered it. He 
said Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it didnt provide Mr K the reasons why it 
had declined his application and said he hadnt seen any evidence that it had discriminated 
against Mr K in its decision-making process. He also explained that the bank didnt have to 
provide an explanation. He said Santanders offer was fair and reasonable for the trouble 
and upset Mr K had been caused. 
In response, Mr K said he was happy to accept the compensation offered by the bank. But 
still wants the bank to give him the reasons it declined his application. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr K has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint.  
I appreciate that hes upset that Santander initially declined his application to open an 
account. And wont tell him why. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that 
the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with someone if they dont consider it appropriate to do so. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly. 
Ive looked at the information Santander has provided, and Im satisfied that it carried out its 
normal account opening procedures when it processed Mr Ks application. And it didnt treat 
Mr Ks application any differently. Following these checks, it decided not to open the 
account. Santander is entitled to do this, so I dont think it acted unfairly. 
Mr K says that he is a victim of discrimination by Santander. And the bank declined his 
application on the grounds of his religion and political beliefs.  While I can appreciate this is 
his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place  only the 
courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation 
to what Mr K has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of 
this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after 
looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I 
havent found that Santander decided not to open the account for an improper reason. And 
treated Mr K unfairly. 
I know Mr K wants Santander to provide its reasons for initially declining his application, but 
Im afraid I cant usefully add much to what the investigator has already said on this point. 
So, whilst I can understand Mr Ks frustration, Santander is under no obligation to provide 
this information to him, as much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to require it do this. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong in not providing this 
information to Mr K.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr K feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating time. So, I realise Mr K will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander have acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr K unfairly when it initially decided to decline his application for an account. So, Im 
not going to ask the bank to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman