DRN-3685667
The complaint
Ms W has complained about her car insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) as she believes it damaged her car beyond repair whilst trying to assist her in starting it.
What happened
Ms W contacted LV because she couldnt get into her car. It visited her property and, having 
gained access to the car using a spare key, LVs technician attempted to start the car. Ms W 
noted the windows automatically came down at that point and then the technician could get 
nothing to work on the car. 
The car was subsequently taken to Ms Ws garage. The garage told her the car was 
damaged beyond repair and she would need to replace it. Ms W told LV this, as she felt it 
was responsible for the loss, and replaced her car. LV said it didnt believe its technician had 
done anything wrong but would consider any evidence Ms W had. Ms W sent LV a note from 
the garage which said the ECU was damaged and Possible jump leads on battery terminal 
wrong way round. LV noted the car had been sold so couldnt be further inspected but it 
considered whether this was most likely what had occurred. Having done so LV didnt think 
that it was, so it said it wouldnt assist Ms W with the costs shed incurred. 
Our Investigator noted there was a lack of evidence to show LV was reasonably responsible 
for what had happened to Ms Ws car. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms W disagreed with the findings. She explained again what had happened, including that, 
before LVs technician started work on the car, it had been working sufficiently to enable 
access to it. So she felt it was clear that LVs technician damaged it. She said there was no 
other explanation for the cars windows having come down than for a power surge to have 
been caused by the technicians work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is a distressing situation for Ms W and that she needed a car to get 
around. I know that in replacing her car shes had to make compromises and stretch her 
finances. That is unfortunate and I can understand why, taking her at her word for what she 
saw, she thinks LV should reimburse her for replacing her car. But I cant base my findings 
only on her understanding of what she saw. I have to consider all of the available evidence 
in order to come to a fair and reasonable decision about whether LV is most likely 
reasonably liable for her loss. With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause 
Ms W, I dont think it is.
I understand that Ms W was given what she felt was clear advice from her garage about 
what had happened, what had gone wrong and what the only suitable course of remedy 
was. The latter being to buy a new car. But because Ms W went ahead and acted on that 
advice LV didnt have chance to verify any of that detail for itself. And when the garage put 
its views in writing, it said it was possible the damage it had found had been caused by the 
technician. It also logged that damage as the ECU having been damaged by a power surge. 
I see LV considered this but the technical advice it received didnt seem to support this. 
From what LV was told I can see that there is potentially a discrepancy in that whilst the 
battery might be damaged by something like this  the ECU may not be. I can also see that 
there was a possible benign explanation for the window movement  that something like this 
happening is not unusual in the normal course of applying power to the battery. But one of 
the key points made is that for this type of fault formal vehicle diagnostics should be run so 
that any affected systems of the car can be properly pinpointed, allowing a considered 
assessment of the damage to the vehicle to be made. However, nothing like this was 
presented to LV and with the car having been sold its no longer possible to obtain that.
So whilst I accept Ms Ws garages opinion that it is possible that LVs technician damaged 
Ms Ws car beyond repair, I dont think it has been shown that this is most likely what 
happened.  As such Im not minded to make LV reimburse Ms Ws outlay for having replaced 
her car. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman