DRN-2430575
The complaint
Ms M has complained that a mortgage she took out with Ulster Bank Ltd in 2006 was 
unaffordable. To put matters right, Ms M wants to be able to sell the property at its current 
market value and for Ulster Bank to write off any outstanding balance, or pay her 
compensation.
What happened
In 2006, after taking advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA), Ms M took out a 
mortgage with Ulster Bank. The mortgage offer dated 7 August 2006 shows that she 
borrowed £119,000 on an interest-only basis over a term of 25 years. The first two years of 
the mortgage were on a fixed rate of 4.99%, after which the mortgage reverted to a variable 
rate of interest. The loan to value ratio (LTV) was 95%.
The mortgage has been paid up-to-date, other than two direct debits which were missed in 
January 2009 and September 2010, and which were paid almost immediately after they 
were overdue.
Since about 2015 Ms M has been renting out the property, with consent from Ulster Bank. In 
2016 Ms M raised concerns with Ulster Bank about the property being in negative equity.
In 2019 Ms M complained to Ulster Bank that the mortgage had been mis-sold.  In its final 
response letter dated 29 March 2019, Ulster Bank explained that the mortgage had been 
sold by an IFA. The bank explained that, although the application had initially been declined, 
after the IFA submitted further information about Ms Ms financial circumstances, the 
application was approved. 
Ulster Bank also noted in the final response letter that the IFA had confirmed Ms Ms 
repayment vehicle was an ISA.
Unhappy with Ulster Banks response, Ms M complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Ms M didnt think Ulster Bank should have approved the mortgage. She also 
explained that, when she took out the mortgage in 2006, she wasnt able to set up a 
repayment vehicle, and so has no means of repaying the capital at the end of the term. As a 
result, Ms M believes the mortgage to be unaffordable and that it was irresponsible of Ulster 
to lend to her.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Ulster Bank had carried out detailed affordability checks before approving the mortgage. 
The investigator also noted that Ms M had told Ulster Bank (via her IFA) that she had an ISA 
to repay the mortgage capital at the end of the term. This was an acceptable repayment 
vehicle, and Ulster was under no obligation to monitor this.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators findings, so it now falls to me to issue a final 
decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its important to note that Ulster Bank didnt give Ms M any advice about this mortgage 
when she took it out in 2006. It was the responsibility of Ms Ms IFA to make a suitable 
recommendation for a mortgage and to advise her on the mortgage that was most suitable 
for her needs. The brokers advice was for an interest-only mortgage. If Ms M is unhappy 
with that advice, shell need to take it up with the broker.
Ms M says that the lending was unaffordable and irresponsible and that Ulster Bank should 
never have agreed the mortgage. I note that the mortgage was initially declined  twice, in 
fact  as Ulster Bank wasnt satisfied with the information the broker had provided about 
Ms Ms financial position. After further information was received, the application was 
approved.
Its correct to say that since 2006 mortgage lenders have tightened up their lending criteria, 
following the financial crash of 2008. But Ive seen nothing untoward in the way Ulster Bank 
assessed the application. The bank questioned the broker on Ms Ms finances and 
requested further information before issuing a mortgage offer. Thats what Id expect a 
responsible lender to do. Ms Ms bank statements didnt suggest the mortgage was likely to 
be unaffordable, and indeed, as noted above, payments have not been missed other than 
two which were quickly caught up.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Ulster Bank didnt act irresponsibly when it 
considered the mortgage application or issued a mortgage offer.
Ms M had told Ulster Bank that she had an ISA as a repayment vehicle. Im satisfied Ulster 
Bank was entitled to rely on this information as being true and accurate. In 2006 the bank 
was under no obligation to verify the existence of a repayment vehicle, or monitor its 
performance. Im satisfied Ms M was given sufficient warning in the mortgage offer and her 
annual mortgage statements of the need for her to ensure she had an adequate repayment 
vehicle in place. Its unfortunate Ms M didnt set up the ISA and now has no means to repay 
the capital at the end of the mortgage term, but I cant hold Ulster Bank responsible for this.
I appreciate Ms M is unhappy that the property is in negative equity. She bought at a time 
when property prices were rising, in a buoyant market. Unfortunately the financial crash of 
2008 significantly affected property values, resulting in negative equity. In some parts of the 
country property prices have still not recovered to their pre-2008 levels. None of this is the 
fault of Ms M, but its not the fault of Ulster Bank either. Nobody could have predicted the 
extent of the crash in 2008, or its impact on property values.
Ms M would like the bank to agree to a sale of the property and to write off the balance of the 
mortgage. Ulster Bank isnt under any obligation to agree to a sale of the property which 
would result in a shortfall debt. I also dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to order 
the bank to write off any balance on the mortgage account if the property was sold for less 
than the amount outstanding under the mortgage.
Ms M still has several years left to run on her mortgage, which will give her time to put in 
place a repayment strategy. I would strongly suggest Ms M takes some advice from an IFA 
about her options, sooner rather than later, so that she has an opportunity to set up a 
payment plan.I know this isnt the outcome Ms M was hoping for, and I do have sympathy for her. But Im 
unable to find, after reviewing all the evidence, that Ulster Bank did anything wrong when it 
approved this mortgage in 2006.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman