DRN-2884633
The complaint
Mr S has complained that TWG Services trading as Assurant General Insurance Limited 
(Assurant) has declined a claim he made on his motor warranty policy. 
What happened
Mr S purchased a Platinum Parts and Labour policy when he purchased his vehicle in 
December 2019. In September 2020, whilst driving he experienced a shuddering sensation 
all over his vehicle, so he pulled over. When he pulled over, he realised there was a 
problem, so he switched the engine off.
Mr S called his recovery agent and the vehicle was recovered to a garage. The engine was 
stripped, and it was deemed a catastrophic failure. So, Mr S submitted a claim. After some 
initial issues with arranging inspection, Assurant had the engine inspected twice over the 
course of about a month. Following the inspections, it advised that it was declining the claim. 
Initially it said that the engine hadnt been stripped so no inspection could take place. 
Assurant also raised an issue with the service history records. However, after a second 
inspection Assurant said that no sudden mechanical failure has been seen or reported. So 
as per its policy terms and conditions it declined the claim.
But Mr S didnt agree. So, he had his own independent engineers inspection carried out in 
January 2021, two weeks after the businesses second inspection.  This report stated that 
there was overwhelming evidence that the catastrophic failure was sudden and 
unforeseeable. 
After a number of final responses, a final, final response was issued on 30 March 2021. In 
this response Assurant stated that it was partially upholding the complaint. It said there had 
been delays, and incorrect information had been provided to the engineers. It looks like 
Assurant apologised but didnt award any compensation for these issues. However, the 
claim remained declined and Assurant said it was unable to arrange for the costs of your 
claim to be supported at this time, as a sudden mechanical failure has not occurred, nor has 
it been demonstrated by your repairing garage or within the report collated by your Engineer. 
Two professional experienced assessment companies have concluded that the failure was 
not of a sudden nature and in the absence of this, I am unable to take your concerns 
regarding the decision made for your claim further.
So, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. The investigator who reviewed the complaint 
felt the claim had been declined incorrectly and said that Assurant should reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. The investigator noted 
that 8% should be added if the claim was to be paid, and asked Assurant to pay £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Assurant doesnt agree and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This warranty covers mechanical breakdown which is defined as the sudden and 
unforeseen failure of a component, not by wear and tear, normal deterioration or negligence. 
We are not liable for parts that have reached the end of their normal working lives because 
of age or usage.
Assurant has had the failure inspected by two independent engineers. It says this failure isnt 
supported under the cover provided by this policy. For Assurant to rely on this clause it has 
to be able to show there is sufficient evidence that the engine hasnt suffered a sudden and 
unforeseen failure. I can understand Assurants position. But I need to be satisfied that it 
acted fairly in turning down the claim. But in this instance, I dont think it has. 
So, what does each report say? Im not going to give much weight to the first report from the 
business. Unfortunately, when this report was written, the engineer didnt have full access to 
the dismantled engine. So, he recommends further dismantling. However, I do note that this 
engineer states an opinion on the reason for failure and he says, the failure would be 
considered fatigue issues at this stage but the evidence is limited, as are 70 - 80% of this 
type of failure. I want to point out that this conclusion was given without a visual inspection 
of the damage. 
The second report from the business sets out some observations. In summary it says:
No evidence of fault codes
Evidence to suggest a thermal overload has occurred
Repairer states oil level is sufficient
Automatic transmission  so no over-rev
Extent of damage would suggest the noise wouldve been audible prior to failure
The extent of damage observed would indicate the failure wasnt sudden but 
exacerbated over a short period of time.
The report also has a suggestion that service history and lack of maintenance could be an 
issue. But servicing was later deemed to be within tolerance, once the full-service history 
was requested.
After both of these visits Mr S commissioned his own expert report. In summary it says:
Theres compelling evidence that there was no low oil pressure or low oil level
Theres no evidence of a lack of servicing or neglect.
The mileage is half the expected mileage seen normally at a failure like this.
The catastrophic failure is consistent with big end failure. One of the bearing cap 
bolts has come loose, placing untold pressure on the cap thus snapping the second 
bolt. This in turn corrupted the movement of the crankshaft and connecting rods, 
fracturing the parts as they rotated out of sequence and impacted the casings in 
which they sit. 
This all happened in a matter of seconds
The breakdown recovery driver ran the engine twice, and the garage once, although 
the engineer states the damage was already done.
There is overwhelming evidence that the catastrophic engine failure was sudden and 
unforeseen.After Assurant received this report it has asked the engineer who wrote the first report to 
comment on Mr Ss engineers findings. In summary he says:
At the time of our inspection, we considered the condition was likely to be the result 
of a fatigue related issue and this would still be our primary explanation for the 
defect.
The theory of failure set out in the consumers report and has some merits based on 
the damage seen.
However, this theory would have three probable causes (a) Previous poor repair, (b) 
manufacturers issue, or (c) a bolt backing off. 
We still consider that the condition is more likely to be the result of fatigue failure as 
detailed in the opinion section of the report, due to material weakening in service, the 
condition being an age related and usage related defect. If the consumers engineers 
theory is accepted the fault is either deterioration related in the bolt structure, or the 
results of incorrect torqueing which we have no evidence to support.
So, based on the two reports from Assurant, and the addendum containing the engineers 
comments, Assurant has decided:
1. Mr Ss engineers conclusions arent viable, and the failure has come about as a 
result of metal fatigue, which it says isnt a sudden failure.
2. A sudden mechanical failure has not occurred. The damage and discolorations 
evident in the cylinder bores and remaining internal components would deem the 
failure to not have suddenly occurred but been exacerbated by continued use of the 
vehicle for a short period of time.
The key to this is Assurants interpretation of what its engineers are saying, and how what 
the engineers say ties in with the terms and conditions of the policy. But Im struggling to see 
how the scenarios as presented tie into the policy term, and what it covers and what it 
excludes. 
Assurant has placed a lot of weight on the fatigue theory. But given this theory has been 
presented by an engineer who hasnt had the opportunity to inspect the damage, Im not 
sure it holds much weight. As I stated above, if Assurant want to use the wear and tear 
exclusion or the normal deterioration exclusion, it needs evidence to support this. And, if we 
balance up an opinion formed without inspection against a conclusion presented by an 
engineer who has visually inspected the failure, Im more persuaded by the conclusions 
presented by the engineer whos visually inspected the damage, Mr Ss engineer. 
Further to this the evidence presented doesnt support the fatigue scenario. This vehicle has 
only done approximately 70/75K miles. This is not the type of mileage where I would expect 
to see an engine fail due to normal deterioration.  Further to this, the scenario of catastrophic 
events presented doesnt present as wear and tear. Wear and tear is what happens to a 
clutch or a set of brake pads, not a crankshaft secured behind a big end cap. Just because 
the crankshaft is a moving part doesnt mean it will automatically wear. Its a stable moving 
part, normally secure in its housing and not coming into contact with outside forces when in 
motion. So, wear can only happen when something goes wrong (such as a lack of 
lubrication, or a loosening of its housing). So, this isnt a normal wear and tear scenario.  
However, I think Assurant are interpreting the failure of the bolts as wear and tear. But 
theres no evidence to prove this. Theres no evidence there was metal fatigue around where 
the bolts were housed, and theres no evidence the bolts were worn. And because of this 
Assurant cant safely say the exclusions apply. I would also like to add that following the 
confirmation of the service history, negligence cant be considered a valid exclusion either.This then leads us to theory that the failure was exacerbated by alleged consumer drive on, 
and as such isnt covered. Mr S says that a few miles from his house he felt the car 
shudder violently. He pulled over immediately thinking that all four tyres had blown out. He 
says he quickly realised there was something wrong with the engine, and even though it was 
still running after a fashion (meaning not very well), he switched off the engine and called 
his recovery agent. I note that the recovery agent started the vehicle twice, and the garage 
started it once. This was mentioned in Mr Ss engineers report, but I cant see that this was 
checked by anyone else. I also note Mrs Ss engineer states that none of these engine starts 
made things worse, as the damage was already done. 
The alleged consumer drive on conclusion comes from the second report commissioned by 
the business. This report states there is evidence of thermal overload, identified by the 
colour of the scoring defects. It says there is evidence of discoloration with a blueness and a 
scoring identified. 
Mr Ss independent engineers report contradicts this finding. The engineer says theres no 
blueness evident at the site of the damage. He backs this up with the observations of the 
garage technicians and its agreed that this is the natural colour of the parts in question. Mr 
Ss engineer also says theres no thermal overloading and any discolorations are due to oil 
staining or heat treatment during manufacture. Again, this is supported by a picture of the 
undamaged part of the crankshaft, showing the same heat manufacture discolouration. 
So, in short theres no evidence the vehicle was driven for even a short period after the 
failure. Ive no reason to question Mr Ss testimony, and in fact its Mr Ss engineer who 
seeks further clarification about engine starts after the catastrophic failure.  And Im more 
persuaded by Mr Ss engineers observations on the discolorations. Further to this Mr Ss 
engineer states the sequence of events as set out above, happened in a matter of seconds, 
which would suggest a sudden and unforeseen failure. As such Im satisfied that any 
damage caused by pulling over or by further attempts to run the engine are negligible as the 
damage had already occurred.
So, having looked at everything on file I agree with our investigators opinion. This was a 
sudden and unforeseen failure. There were no warning signs, so it was unforeseen. And this 
is supported by the ECU data presented in Mr Ss engineers report. Add to this the history of 
the vehicle which would suggest its a well-maintained vehicle with a low/average mileage. 
The description of what happened from Mr S suggests it was a sudden failure, and theres 
no evidence to suggest it wasnt.
In response to our investigators view Assurant said that Mr Ss engineers report was 
contradictory. Assurant point out that the loosening or backing off of a bolt isnt deemed 
sudden. Assurant use an analogy of a tap going from off to on, as not being sudden. 
But Assurant are missing the point. This is a sudden breakdown thats not restricted by the 
exclusions written in the terms of the policy. Assurant hasnt proven that any of these 
exclusions apply here, so as such it hasnt proven that the catastrophic failure wasnt 
sudden. As such, it now needs to reconsider the claim, in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy.
In answer to its assertion that it wasnt given the opportunity to instruct a third engineer, I 
dont agree. Assurant had access to Mr Ss report. It asked a qualified engineer to comment 
on it and it provided these comments. Its also based its final response on these additional 
comments. So, if it felt an additional report was needed it had ample time to commission it, 
but it chose not to. A scenario such as this shouldnt mean two parties become embroiled in 
providing expert report after expert report. The engineers role is to inspect the damage, state the facts and draw a conclusion from these facts. My role is to decide which report Im 
most persuaded by. And in this instance the report provided by Mr S paints a more 
persuasive picture of what happened. So Im satisfied its conclusion that this engine failure 
was sudden and unforeseen is correct.
Because of this Im recommending that Assurant reconsiders this claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If no further exclusions apply, Assurant must 
pay this claim in full less the relevant excess and including all diagnostic costs. 8% simple 
interest should be added to this amount from the date of claim until the date of payment. Im 
also going to agree with our investigator, and I recommend £150 in compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr S has suffered throughout the lifetime of this claim
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require TWG Services trading as Assurant General Insurance Limited to do the following:
reconsider this claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If 
no further exclusions apply, Assurant must pay this claim in full less the relevant 
excess and including all diagnostic costs. 
8% simple interest should be added to the final claim amount if paid to Mr S from the 
date of claim to the date of payment. If TWG Services trading as Assurant General 
Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £150 in compensation for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman