The complaint
Mr D says Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum), irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan for £300 taken in January 2019. It was to be 
repaid 34 days later. At the time of this decision, my understanding is that the loan is still 
outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and thought Ferratum had carried out 
sufficient checks about Mr Ds financial circumstances before it lent to him and there was 
nothing in the information that it was aware of that would have caused Ferratum any 
concerns about lending to him.
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicator. He explained more about his personal circumstances at 
the time of the lending. But this didnt change the adjudicators assessment. As the 
complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
DRN-1947853the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. After doing so, I dont think Ferratum 
was wrong to lend to Mr D. Ill explain why. 
Given what Mr D told Ferratum about his income, the repayment amount and that this was 
Mr Ds first loan with Ferratum, I dont think it would have been proportionate for Ferratum to 
have asked Mr D for further information that would be needed to show that lending was 
unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
For the loan application, Mr D confirmed he was employed, and his monthly income was 
£1,001 and while I appreciate the amount to be repaid was a significant proportion of this, it 
was intended to be one-off payment. So, I dont think there would have been any reason for 
Ferratum to have been concerned enough for it to have looked further into Mr Ds financial 
circumstances at such an early period of his borrowing relationship. 
Mr D has told us that the application information wasnt a fair reflection of his actual 
circumstances at the time he applied for the loan. He has told us he was using a care of 
address but the application process didnt allow him to include this information. He has also 
told us that he was an agency worker so a regular income couldnt be guaranteed  which I 
understand proved to be the case. 
I appreciate that Mr Ds circumstances were different. But I cant see anything from the 
application itself that would have caused Ferratum any concerns about the lending. An 
employers name is recorded on the application so there was nothing to suggest Mr D might 
not be employed in the foreseeable future over and above any other employee. And I cant 
know for sure that Ferratum wouldnt have lent to him if it had been aware of his agency 
employment status. Ferratum has told us it verified Mr Ds address when it carried out its bank checks. So again, 
I dont think that there was any reason for Ferratum to have questioned the information it had 
been given. And again, if Ferratum had been aware Mr D was using a care of address I 
cant say whether it would have lent to him or not. 
And as Ive said above, at the beginning of a borrowing relationship I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. It's possible  and in this case likely 
that Mr Ds actual circumstances werent correctly reflected in the information he provided, or 
the information Ferratum obtained as a result of the credit checks. And Mr Ds actual 
financial position may well have been apparent if further information  such as more in-depth 
credit checks  had been obtained.
But Ferratum could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont think there was 
a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mr D. In these circumstances, I dont think 
Ferratum needed to take further steps to verify the information provided  such as asking 
  Mr D for evidence of his income and outgoing which Ferratum could have gathered from his 
salary slip or copies of any bills, as examples.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Ferratum did for this loan was 
proportionate. I think its decision to lend to Mr D was reasonable.
I appreciate Mr D will be extremely disappointed with my decision. I realise he is in a difficult 
position, but I hope I have been able to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30July2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman