DRN-2037179
The complaint
Mr H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by post in 2002. The policy gave Mr H 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment and some life cover. It was taken 
out at the same time as Mr H applied for his credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H says he wasnt made aware the PPI was optional and he now knows it was 
often pre-ticked on application forms. But on his credit card application form the 
options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence. And I can see 
the Yes box wasnt pre-ticked, rather it was completed by hand, indicating he 
wanted to take out PPI. Overall, I think Capital One made it clear to Mr H the PPI was 
optional and he agreed to take it out.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr H to decide whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was sick or lost 
his job. 
Its possible Capital One didnt give Mr H all the information about the PPI that he 
needed before he made his decision. But Mr H chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. I note Mr H said he was struggling financially when he took out the credit 
card, but he had no savings or other insurances and wasnt entitled to any sick pay 
from his employer. And the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for all 
successful accident, sickness and unemployment claims. So it would have been 
useful for him if he lost his job or was sick. Based on his circumstances at the time of 
the sale and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mr H wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman