DRN-3340606
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to refund a transaction he didnt recognise
and left him without the use of his account.
What happened
Mr P noticed a withdrawal had been made from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) that he
didnt recognise and contacted Sainsburys about it. Mr P explained that he hadnt made this
withdrawal and it was out of character for him to take this amount of money from an ATM.
The withdrawal took all the available funds from the account. He said that he generally uses
ATMs close to where he lives and the unrecognised withdrawal was in another part of the
city that he doesnt visit.
Mr P said that he still had his card and hadnt given it or his Personal Identification Number
(PIN) to anyone else to use. Hed transferred funds from another account to use for a
shopping trip, which was postponed. Mr P explained that he was considered in the
vulnerable category during the pandemic and hadnt ventured far from his home. Hed used
his local ATM four days prior to the disputed transaction.
Sainsburys looked into the matter and because the ATM didnt belong to them, they asked
another business, who Ill refer to as M, to give them the audit information about the
transaction.
M told Sainsburys that theyd checked the information from the withdrawal and Mr Ps card
was used, along with the correct PIN. M also said that a balance enquiry was made before
the withdrawal and there were no incorrect PIN attempts. M confirmed that there hadnt been
any reports of cards been copied or cloned with this ATM or the usual ones used by Mr P.
Sainsburys cancelled Mr Ps card and attempted to re-issue it, which suffered a delay and
Mr P waited for several weeks before he received his new card, having to remind
Sainsburys on occasion that he was still without his card.
Sainsburys told Mr P they were declining to refund him the disputed transaction. This was
because they believed his genuine card was used with the correct PIN and they couldnt
identify any point where his card could have been compromised. Mr P complained to
Sainsburys who didnt change their position, although they recognised theyd let Mr P down
with the delay in issuing his new debit card and offered £50 compensation.
Mr P was unhappy with how his complaint had been handled and brought it to our service for
an independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. He asked for
more detailed audit information about the transaction and whether the chip on the card was
actually read by the ATM - which Sainsburys later said they couldnt supply. Based on the
available evidence, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint because he thought it
was unlikely anyone else could have used Mr Ps genuine card. He also thought that the gap
between the last time Mr P used his card and the disputed transaction wasnt supportive of
how cloned cards were usually used. He also thought the compensation paid for the delay
issuing the new card was reasonable.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked more questions about the Chip on
the card and the ATM that was used to withdraw his money. Mr P gave more background to
his normal use of the card and had noted that someone was uncomfortably close to him
when he used his normal ATM and thought this was when hed last used his card. Mr P also
thought that it was possible his card was copied or cloned. He didnt think that the gap
between withdrawals was evidence that his card wasnt cloned because criminal gangs also
had to deal with delays caused by the pandemic.
Mr P asked for a further review of his complaint which has been passed to me for a decision.
Sainsburys were asked for further audit information about both the card and the withdrawal.
They were unable to supply anything further and M havent responded to additional requests
we made about the withdrawal. Sainsburys did confirm that the card issued to Mr P wasnt
fitted with a Chip.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Sainsburys can hold Mr P liable for the disputed payments if the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case,
Sainsburys have supplied evidence from M that shows the disputed withdrawal was made
from Mr Ps account. Sainsburys have explained that the withdrawal could only happen with
the correct PIN being used with a card linked to Mr Ps account. Id normally expect to see
far greater detail about the operation of an ATM and how the card was used. In this
complaint Ive not had opportunity to examine it and Ive had to rely on the notes taken
during a phone call between Sainsburys and M. Ive no reason to doubt the recording of the
notes of the call, but they are far from a comprehensive account of what happened when the
money was withdrawn. But, they do provide the very basics of what happened, which is that
a card linked to Mr Ps account was used with its correct PIN to withdraw funds. On balance,
Im satisfied that the evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Sainsburys and Mr P agreed to use the card for
transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN together, Sainsburys agree to
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the
card and the correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for
Sainsburys to hold Mr P responsible, for example if the card was used without his
permission.
In their final response letter to Mr P, Sainsburys said that because Mr Ps original card and
PIN were used, they couldnt refund the transaction. Sainsburys later informed our service
that they couldnt supply any information about the Chip on the card. Many modern cards
have a Chip embedded in them which enables the ATM to identify that the card was the
genuine card issued to the account holder. Sainsburys later told our service that the card
issued to Mr P wasnt fitted with a Chip, so its not possible to determine if the card that was
used to make the withdrawal was the original card  despite what Sainsburys claimed in
their final response to Mr P.The type of card issued to Mr P used the magnetic strip as part of its security and these are
able to be copied or cloned. So, Ive thought whether this was the cause of the withdrawal.
What is evident to me is that the correct PIN was used in the ATM  whether that was in a
copied card or not. In order for an unauthorised third party to make the withdrawal, they
would need to obtain the PIN. Mr Ps personal arrangements are such that its unlikely an
unauthorised third party could have obtained the PIN from his home and the only plausible
scenario is that the PIN could have been obtained when he last used his card.
This was made at one of Mr Ps normal ATMs and took place four days prior to the disputed
withdrawal. Mr P had transferred funds into the account some days earlier, which was the
usual way he used this account. Mr P has stated that he was aware of someone
uncomfortably close to him during a recent withdrawal and he thinks it was the last time he
used his card. So, its possible that Mr Ps PIN was obtained at that point.
In order for the disputed withdrawal to take place, Mr Ps genuine card or a cloned card
would be needed. Mr P still had his card when he noticed the withdrawal, so its unlikely an
unauthorised third party was able to obtain Mr Ps genuine card, use it and replace it without
Mr P noticing. Its possible that the card was cloned the last time he used it  and this is
usually done by a device thats been attached to the ATM that captures the information from
the card. A common feature of this type of crime is that it relies on a large number of cards to
be cloned.
M confirmed to Sainsburys that there were no reports of any suspicious activity at any of the
machines used by Mr P. If a cloned card was responsible for the withdrawal, I would expect
that numerous complaints from other users would have been recorded. In such cases, M
would most likely have been able to identify the common ATM used to capture the card
details  such as the ones usually used by Mr P  but that wasnt the case here.
I recognise the unusual nature of the withdrawal  that it was in a different location and time
of day to Mr Ps usual withdrawals. The disputed withdrawal also emptied the account. Mr P
said this withdrawal was an unusual amount for him and Sainsburys argued that Mr P had
withdrawn a similar amount before. Looking at Mr Ps recent withdrawals, I would say this
was slightly higher than normal, but I dont think the actual amount is relevant here  its the
fact that all the available money was taken which isnt how Mr P normally operated his
account.
This is a finely balanced complaint and theres evidence from both parties that supports their
relative positions. My decision has to be made based on an objective review of the evidence.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
must make my decision based on the balance of probabilities, in other words, on what I
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
In summary, funds were withdrawn from an ATM using Mr Ps account. That ATM was in an
unusual location and was made at an unusual time compared to the normal use by Mr P.
The account was also emptied. Its possible the PIN was compromised during the last
legitimate use by Mr P, but theres no evidence that any of the ATMs associated with this
complaint were connected to any suspicious activity  including the cloning of other ATM
cards. Its this final point that persuades me that I cant uphold this complaint because the
cloning of cards would likely produce more than one complaint which isnt the case here.
I cant conclude it wasnt authorised without stronger evidence to the contrary. That means I
think its more likely than not that Mr P carried out these transactions himself  or that
someone else with consent did so.
Card RenewalWhen Sainsburys blocked Mr Ps card, they told him theyd reissue it with a new PIN. This
didnt happen for several weeks despite Mr P reminding them about it. Sainsburys had
experienced a problem with sending out new cards and they thought this was the reason for
the delay. It took about two months for Mr P to receive his new card. In the meantime, he
wanted to use funds from his account but couldnt because he didnt yet have a new card.
Sainsburys explained to Mr P that he could set up a new payee online, but as he didnt have
the means to receive the security codes, he was unable to. Sainsburys then assisted Mr P
with how to access his money through their telephone banking service.
They recognised that theyd let Mr P down and credited his account with £50. I think the
delay was overly long to replace Mr Ps card. I dont think the £50 sufficiently compensates
Mr P for the inconvenience he suffered as a result of the delay in receiving his card. He had
to contact Sainsburys on several occasions to gain access to his funds, which I think was
unnecessary.
Sainsburys could have provided better service to Mr P and confirmed that hed received his
new card, particularly when they knew there was an ongoing incident involving the issue of
new cards. I intend to instruct Sainsburys to make an additional payment to Mr P of £100 for
the delay in sending the new card out.
I invited Mr P and Sainsburys to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Sainsburys didnt respond and Mr P 
commented that:
He hadnt been to that specific location and only rarely visited the general area.
There would be records of Mr P travelling to the area.
Mr P didnt believe that copying a magnetic strip would be part of a large criminal 
undertaking.
Its possible the PIN would be obtainable from the magnetic strip.
Mr P accepted my outcome regarding the card renewal aspect of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. But, Ill address the points 
that Mr P raised:
Mr P said he hadnt been to that specific location and only rarely visited the general 
area. Also, that there would be records of Mr P travelling to the area.
I appreciate Mr Ps point here that he hadnt been to that location, but the authorisation of a 
card payment doesnt rely on him carrying out the withdrawals himself. I cant say if it was Mr 
P or someone using the card with his permission, but consent will still have been given if 
someone carried out the withdrawal on his behalf or with his knowledge. It follows that the 
lack of evidence of travel wouldnt necessarily mean he didnt consent to the withdrawal. Id 
note that there are other ways to travel to the location of the ATM without leaving a record as 
described by Mr P, such as a passenger in a vehicle  but I dont think thats relevant to 
whether consent was given.
Mr P didnt believe that copying a magnetic strip would be part of a large criminal 
undertaking.Mr P speculated that because cards with Chips couldnt be cloned, any criminal undertaking 
wouldnt need to be extensive if they were only targeting cards without Chips. Whilst the 
Chip cant be cloned (according to current understanding), those cards also have a magnetic 
strip, which is the target of such criminal activity. Thats why this type of criminal undertaking 
is often associated with multiple complaints because they clone the magnetic strip on any 
card that uses the ATM whether they have a Chip or not. Ive already made a finding about 
why I dont think the withdrawal was caused by a cloned card and Ive seen nothing that 
would change my mind.
Its possible the PIN would be obtainable from the magnetic strip.
I havent seen exactly what Sainsburys encode onto the magnetic strip, but it would be 
unusual to include the PIN because that would undermine the very security that the cards 
rely on. That being two factor authentication - because the card and PIN are separate. So, I 
dont think this was the likely cause of how the PIN was known to the user of the card.
Ive not seen anything that would change my mind concerning the disputed transaction 
aspect of this complaint. Mr P accepted my outcome regarding the renewal of his cards, so 
this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Sainsburys are instructed to pay Mr P an additional £100 for the lack of service and delays 
caused by the renewal of his debit card. For the avoidance of any doubt, I do not uphold the 
complaint concerning the disputed transactions made from the ATM. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part against Sainsbury's Bank Plc and instruct them to pay Mr P an 
additional £100 for the poor service and delays he suffered as a result of the renewal of his 
debit card. I do not uphold the complaint concerning the disputed transactions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman