DRN-3666357
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd have 
unreasonably deducted several items of vet costs from her claim under her pet policy.
What happened
Mrs S dog required an operation on her cruciate ligament and the total costs charged by her
vet was £3,467.48. So, Mrs S claimed this from Casualty. Casualty said her claim was valid,
but it deducted £598.29 plus the excess of £90 meaning it only paid her vet £2,779.19.
Mrs S complained that the items deducted werent reasonable, which her vet also supported.
Casualty wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that some of the items could be deducted given the policy
terms, but he thought it should refund Mrs S the costs for consumables, fluid therapy and
general anaesthetic.
Mrs S agreed but Casualty didnt, so Mrs S complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 October and I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im intending to uphold this complaint for further reasons than the
investigator Ill now explain why.
Casualty deducted the following from Mrs S claim:
Warming blanket £55.50
Buster Collar £11.71
Consumables £66.61
Fluid Therapy £72.61
General anaesthetic deduction £371.30
Hospitalisation over £100 (per 24 hours) £20.56
And obviously the premium of £90 was also deducted, which was appropriate.
I consider the deductions for the warming blanket and the buster collar to be 
reasonable as they are clearly specified as excluded in the policy. As the policy says 
the following on page 18 in a long list of what is excluded:
Any claims for buster collars, medical vests and boot (including warming 
blankets).
However, turning to consumables, fluid therapy, and the large deduction for the 
general anaesthetic, I agree with the investigator that the policy doesnt provide clear 
terms that these are to be excluded. Casualty sought to explain this by pointing to the 
following:
General Exclusions
 Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable; and Essential for Your 
pets health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-
up of 100% for veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing fees.
And it said the following:
Please note we allow £250 for the cost of general anaesthetic; these costs 
have been set by the insurer who has deemed this a reasonable fee from 
their own statistical research.
But I dont consider this is at all reasonable as Casualty has provided no underwriting 
guide or any other information for me to consider whether its analysis is indeed fair 
and reasonable. Vet costs can vary all over the country due to such issues as lower 
or higher overheads and other things. Casualty like every other insurer must seek to 
treat all its consumers fairly not just those in one part of the country where such fixed 
costs of vet practices might allow them to charge less than vets in another part of the 
country who would have higher fixed costs.
Further, without detailing coherently in the policy terms, such exclusions, it also 
means the consumer has no way of ensuring this policys benefits are suitable for 
their needs. Casualty is under a duty to provide enough information for consumers to 
do this. So, I consider this is very inadequate in rationale to permit ordinary 
consumers to do this easily and sensibly.
Also, as the adjudicator noted Casualty explained that it had decided fluid therapy 
was part of the following:
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment 
which is preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury.
It then said:
Whilst we appreciate that you would deem fluid therapy to be a necessary 
part of a pets treatment, this is considered to be a routine treatment that is 
included as part of other veterinary treatments.
As the Terms and Conditions of our policies confirm that we will not provide 
coverage for routine treatment, these costs are correctly deducted from the 
claims that we review, unless there are extenuating circumstances, such as if 
fluids are necessary to save the pets life and they would not survive without 
this additional treatment.
Since it is Casualty invoking the exclusion, the burden of proof falls to it to prove this 
is reasonable in Mrs S case. It is not for Mrs S or her vet to show the items were 
necessary either as Casualty has implied above. The onus for this is at all Casualtys 
door, since it has decided they were excluded.
Further the actual exclusion relates to cosmetic and elective treatment which a 
necessary cruciate ligament operation would never be classed as. The addition of the 
word routine doesnt help Casualty, given it decided to preface the sentence with the 
words cosmetic and elective. So, the entire argument about this term permitting such fluid therapy to be so excluded in my view is far too vague, and 
incomprehensible to the average consumer so as to know that something like fluid 
therapy, which they may not even know will be given to their pet in the operation, 
wont be covered. That is not treating customers fairly or indeed allowing them to 
work out if this policys benefits are suitable for their needs.
I am not a vet but a I would imagine in the substantial operation, a cruciate ligament 
repair operation is, the giving of fluid therapy would be seen to be best practice 
amongst vets to ensure the well-being of the dog. And it would be unreasonable in 
my view to nit-pick through a vets invoice picking off varying elements without 
making it very clear beforehand that such items would not be covered like Casualty 
has done with booster collars and warming blankets above.
Lastly there is no mention of consumables anywhere. Therefore, I consider the costs 
for fluid therapy, consumables and the general anaesthetic costs should be refunded 
to Mrs S with interest.
Turning to the hospitalisation deduction, as Casualty is aware from previous cases, I 
dont consider this reasonable either. Hospitalisation is not defined in the policy and 
is not defined in treatment either. The policy does cover vet fees which are defined 
as the fees charged by Your Vet for the Medical Treatment of an Illness or 
Accidental Injury.
Treatment is defined as:
Treatment  Means any consultation, examination, advice, tests, x-rays, 
slides, ultrasound, MRI scans, medication, surgery or nursing care that has 
taken place and been recommended and provided by a Vet
And under section 1 (Veterinary fees) the terms of policy say:
What is insured?... This section of Your Policy covers Treatment carried out 
by a Vet for treating an Illness or Accidental Injury suffered by Your pet whilst 
insured with Us.
So, I consider without a definition of hospitalisation I dont consider this cap is 
reasonable. 
Further in its response to the investigators view it said the following which I also 
detailed above:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable; and Essential for Your 
pets health and wellbeing. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up 
of 100% for veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing fees; Blood 
sampling charges will be capped at the UK market average; Each and every 
claim will be reviewed by Our claims assessors and costs will be compared 
against charges for the same or similar Treatment to make sure that the 
Treatment and veterinary fees are reasonable, necessary, essential, and not 
excessive compared to the rest of the UK market.
Mark up is based on our research of the UK market and our own in house 
claims handling.
Casualty explained in its payment letter to Mrs S that these reasonable costs were 
set at £100 per 24 hours for hospitalisation. And these amounts were set by the insurer who did statistical research of what a reasonable fee was. I dont consider 
this is a reasonable approach as vet fees do change regularly and not all vets charge 
the same for the same things either. As I previously said vets in some part of the 
country would have a higher outlay on fixed costs that vets in another part of the 
country.
Reasonable is also a wholly subjective term so again what is reasonable in one part 
of the country wont be in another. Insurers are required by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to treat all their customers fairly which means treating them all the same in 
similar circumstances and not singling out any individual customer or set of 
customers from others. Casualtys approach here isnt my view ensuring this 
coherently. Casualty also hasnt disclosed its research so it can be analysed 
coherently. So, I consider the deduction of £20.56 should also be refunded with 
interest.
I also consider this has caused Mrs S some considerable degree of upset and 
distress given the large total deduction from her vet bill which with the exception of 
the buster collar and warming blanket werent at all clear in the policy given the lack 
of definition of hospitalisation and the very vague terms to reduce the anaesthetic 
costs and fluid therapy. Therefore, I consider Casualty should pay Mrs S the sum of 
£200 compensation in addition. This is similar to other awards Ive made, in similar 
cases.
Mrs S was grateful for my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Casualty said it didnt agree and merely reproduced its letter to Mrs S saying what it wouldnt 
be covering in her vet fees account which obviously both Mrs S and I had already seen. It 
also produced a list of all the items it wouldnt cover and all the capped items again which we 
have seen in the policy document. 
Crucially it provided no statistical research it had told me it had undertaken to establish these 
arbitrary caps on certain vet fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, nothing that Casualty has produced in response to my provisional 
decision takes the matter any further. Because no reasoning or statistical research has been 
disclosed. So, I am not able to analyse it to ascertain if its reasonable, bearing in mind vet 
fees and indeed vet costs will be different in different parts of the country. 
So, it remains that Im not persuaded these caps are fair and it follows I dont consider it was 
reasonable Mrs S vet bill was reduced in this way. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to do the following:Pay Mrs S vet the costs of:
            - Consumables £66.61
            - Fluid Therapy £72.61
            - General anaesthetic deduction £371.30
           - Hospitalisation over £100 (per 24 hours) £20.56.
If Mrs S has paid her vet these costs herself, refund Mrs S these sums, adding 
interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs S paid her vet to the date of its 
refund.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Mrs S for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mrs S the sum of £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman