DRN-3904681
The complaint
Mr S complains about Metro Bank PLC not making three payments as he wanted and the 
service it provided around this situation.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr S tried to make three payments from his account with Metro. These 
payments werent made immediately though, as Metro contacted Mr S by text message to 
ask him to call and discuss the payments before it would release them. Mr S called Metro 
but says he was kept on hold for over two hours, so he didnt continue with the call and didnt 
speak to Metro. The next day, Mr S tried to make the payments again. This time, they were 
made with no need for him to call and discuss them.
Mr S was unhappy about this and went to a branch to try to resolve the issue, but says that 
the branch staff were dismissive and unhelpful. So he complained to Metro, which said that 
the payments were held because they were identified as high risk on the first attempt. On the 
second, they werent identified in the same way and so they were paid. Metro said it had no 
record of a branch visit but acknowledged that Mr S had been on hold for a long time when 
he called, so offered him £30 to make up for this.
Mr S wasnt happy with this as a resolution to his complaint so he came to our service. Our 
adjudicator said that we couldnt tell Metro to change its systems which stopped the 
payments being made. Nor could they say much about the branch visit where there are no 
records of this. But they did acknowledge that the customer service Metro provided here fell 
short of what Mr S could have expected. So they said Metro should increase the 
compensation offered from £30 to £75 in total.
Metro agreed with this, but Mr S didnt. He felt that the compensation should be more 
significant for what he felt was a breach of security by Metro. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro has explained that the payments werent made when Mr S first tried to make them 
because they were flagged by its internal systems. Such checks and processes are intended 
to protect customers from making payments that look like they might be high risk, or possibly 
fraudulent. Checks like these will cause some inconvenience for customers by their very 
nature, but thats not to say that Metro werent entitled to make them. These checks were 
ultimately being made in Mr Ss best interests, even if I realise he wont see it the same way.
So Metro was entitled to ask Mr S to contact it before making these payments and Im 
satisfied it acted fairly in doing so. The issue was that when Mr S called, he had to wait for a 
very long time to speak to Metro. He says  and Metro accepts  that he was likely on hold 
for over two hours. So I can understand why Mr S didnt continue with the call at that time.
That would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr S. These payments werent made 
when he wanted them to be and despite reasonable efforts, he wasnt able to contact Metro 
to find a solution. Fortunately, Mr S was able to make the payments the next day  so any 
inconvenience was short lived.
It is odd that the payments were flagged on one day, but not another. Metro has explained 
that this is an effect of the systems it uses, which I accept. But the impact of this here wasnt 
to Mr Ss detriment. Instead - he was able to make the payments he wanted, in the way he 
wanted, just a day later than he wanted to make them. So even if this does seem strange, 
Im not persuaded that it had an unfair impact on Mr S.
Mr S has said that he visited the branch to try and resolve this matter, but that the branch 
staff were dismissive and unhelpful. There is no clear evidence of this  but in any event, I 
still have to look at this matter impartially and when I consider that the payments were 
ultimately made just a day after the initial instruction, I think the £75 compensation that our 
adjudicator recommended and that Metro has agreed to pay is fair in all the circumstances 
here.
My final decision
Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr S £75 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman