DRN-4104128
The complaint
Miss V complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt treat her fairly when she fell victim to an 
investment scam in 2021.
What happened
In early July 2021, Miss V started chatting with someone shed met on a dating site (Ill refer 
to this individual as S). Over the course of the next week, they chatted at length, and S 
gained Miss Vs trust before mentioning that they were investing successfully on a trading 
platform Ill refer to as T. 
S encouraged Miss V to invest in T. He said he was receiving exceptional returns, 
apparently over 10% in a day.
Miss V created accounts with legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges A and B. These were to 
be used to purchase cryptocurrency which would then be transferred to a wallet supposedly 
held by T.
Initially Miss V invested only a small sum. This appeared to have done well, and Miss V 
invested larger sums. She was able to withdraw some amounts from T, receiving these as 
cryptocurrency into the wallet she held with B. From there, Miss V sold the cryptocurrency 
and transferred the proceeds back to her Monzo account.
In total, Miss V made several related payments within the span of six days, as set out below:
Payment 
SequenceDate Payee Method Debit Credit
1 13-Jul-21 A Card Payment £105.00  
2 14-Jul-21 A Card Payment £400.00  
3 15-Jul-21 A Card Payment £6,336.07  
 15-Jul-21 B Credit  £699.00
4 15-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £7,000.00  
5 15-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £100.00  
6 16-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £3,000.00  
 7 16-Jul-21 B Faster Payment  £10.00
16-Jul-21 B Credit £10.00
8 17-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £1,000.00  
9 17-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £200.00  
10 18-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £1,400.00  
11 18-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £2,050.00  
 19-Jul-21 B Credit  £4,545.00
12 18-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £3,000.00  
13 18-Jul-21 B Faster Payment £2,500.00  
 24-Jul-21 B Credit  £99.00
TOTALS    £27,091.07 £5,353.00
Net loss    £21,738.07
Miss V invested additional sums from her account held with another bank, between 16 July 
and 22 July.
However, she found that her account with T had been flagged as being under review. She 
contacted T and was told shed need to pay a further £50,000 to withdraw her money. 
Miss V realised that this didnt make sense, and that this had been a scam. Having utilised 
all the funds shed transferred to A and B through purchasing cryptocurrency and having 
transferred all of that to T, she was left significantly out of pocket.
She reported the matter to Monzo. She also reported the payments shed made from her 
other bank account to the relevant bank.
Monzo looked into the losses resulting from the payments shed made from its account. It 
said it wasnt responsible for refunding her the money shed lost to A and B. Monzo didnt 
consider it should have had concerns that these payments were at particular risk of being 
fraudulent in nature. It said Miss V had paid the money from her Monzo account to 
cryptocurrency wallets she held with A and B, both legitimate cryptocurrency wallet 
providers. 
The loss had occurred when shed moved her funds on from those wallets to T in the form of 
cryptocurrency, rather than when shed moved money from Monzo to A and B. So, it thought 
she should take the matter up with A and B, but Monzo wasnt at fault. 
Miss V was unable to recover any funds from A or from B  these funds had been used to 
purchase cryptocurrency which shed sent straight on to T. Miss V complained, but Monzo 
reiterated its position. 
Our Investigator considered what had happened. He noted that none of these payments 
would be covered by LSBs Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) because 
that code did not apply to card payments, or to Faster Payments made to someones own 
accounts.
He thought that the first two card payments werent significant or remarkable compared to 
Miss Vs usual account activity. But by the point of payment three, for the sum of £6,336.07, 
he thought Monzo should have been concerned that Miss V might be at risk of financial 
harm. He thought Monzo should have intervened at the time to reassure itself this wasnt the 
case. Had Monzo done so, Miss V would likely have investigated further and not proceeded. 
She would not have lost this, or the subsequent payments.
However, the Investigator thought it fair that Miss V should share some of the blame for what 
had happened. Amongst other things the supposed investment returns were too good to be 
true and ought to have prompted Miss V to carry out additional checks into T before sending 
such significant sums. The Investigator therefore said it was fair to split the liability for the 
loss equally. Monzo should refund Miss V 50% of the net loss from the point of payment 
three onwards.
Miss V accepted the Investigators view. Monzo disagreed. It said a transfer to someones own account had minimal risk of being liable to cause loss due to fraud. The payments 
Miss V had sent from her Monzo account had been received into legitimate wallets over 
which only Miss V had control. It didnt agree to refund any of the losses that had resulted.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
It has not been disputed that Miss V fell victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided by 
both Miss V and Monzo sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Monzo 
should refund the money Miss V lost due to the scam. 
Recovery of the payments
Ive first considered whether Monzo could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Miss Vs payments once she reported the matter to it.
In relation to the first three payments, card payments to A, Ive considered whether there 
was any reasonable prospect of recovery through the card operators chargeback scheme. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes between 
merchants and cardholders. In practice there are only limited grounds and limited forms of 
evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially 
succeed. 
Monzo explains that it would have had no valid chargeback grounds in scenarios where the 
funds were used to purchase cryptocurrency. This was the situation here, Miss V received 
what she paid for from A. I dont think Monzo acted unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback for 
these card transactions, there would have been no reasonable prospect of such a claim 
succeeding.
In relation to the subsequent payments (all of which were made as Faster Payments 
transfers to B) because Miss V had utilised all of the funds shed sent to purchase 
cryptocurrency, Monzo was unable to recover any of her money from B.
In short, I dont find Monzo liable to reimburse Miss V for any failure in its efforts to recover 
her funds after the scam came to light.
Could Monzo have done more to protect Miss V?
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. 
Here, the three card payments were authorised by Miss V using her log-in and card security 
credentials. The Faster Payment transfers were correctly authorised by Miss V. As a starting point, under the relevant regulations, shes therefore considered liable. That applies even 
though she made the payments as the consequence of a scam.
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, I consider it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a bank to reimburse their 
customer even though that customer authorised the relevant transactions. 
Id expect that Monzo, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that might reasonably be considered to 
indicate potential financial detriment to its customer through fraud or scam. 
And by 2021, when these transactions took place, I think it is reasonable to expect Monzo to 
have been aware of the hallmarks of cryptocurrency-based scams at the time (including that 
these might start with payments being made to a wallet held at an exchange in the 
customers own name).
I say that bearing in mind that the FCA had specifically drawn attention to the increasing risk 
of this type of scam and its typical features in mid-2018. That was around three years prior to 
this scam taking place. So, as a matter of good industry practice, Id expect this type of 
intelligence to have been recognised by Monzo long before the time of the scam that 
affected Miss V and that this should have been incorporated into the banks prevention 
measures.
Where such a risk of harm ought reasonably to have been identified, Id expect Monzo to 
intervene to reassure itself on the legitimacy of the transaction prior to processing the 
relevant payment instruction.
Here Monzo has argued that none of the transactions should have caused it such concern. 
These payments were all destined for wallets or accounts held in Miss Vs own name. 
I have taken this argument into consideration here. I consider that in general the perceived 
risk of a payment (or payments) being sent to a customers own account would undoubtably 
be significantly less than payments made to another person. But I dont consider that this 
factor entirely removes the risks associated with a payment made to a cryptocurrency wallet. 
As Ive noted above, the rapid growth in the prevalence of scams of this type had already 
been highlighted by the FCA and others. That means I think the fact that the destination 
wallet was Miss Vs own would provide only a very limited degree of reassurance to Monzo 
that this might not be a means by which Miss V was about to become the victim of a scam.
And I find that the size of the third payment was remarkable enough in the context of 
Miss Vs prior account usage to have prompted such concerns from Monzo, given its 
destination  despite this being a wallet held in her own name. Miss V had held her Monzo 
account since 2018 and the account history indicates she used it for day-to-day spending. 
This third payment, in the sum of £6,336.07, was for a significantly higher sum than Miss Vs 
usual account activity.
The largest single payment in the previous year was £500 and there is no sign of prior 
payments to cryptocurrency related destinations. This payment was now the third payment in 
as many days to a cryptocurrency exchange, these payments significantly escalating each 
time. It was for a value over ten times that of the largest payment made on her account in 
the previous year.
Im satisfied there was enough for the bank to have been aware that what was happening 
had the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency scam. Id expect as a matter of good industry practice, that Monzo should have taken the step of delaying the payment until it could satisfy itself that 
this was not the case, and that the transaction would not in fact lead to financial harm for its 
customer. This could have been achieved for example, by contacting Miss V and asking 
some discrete questions about the transaction (perhaps through the banks chat function or 
another suitable communication channel). 
Had Monzo asked Miss V about the payment and what it was for, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest shed have done otherwise than to tell the bank what she fully believed was 
happening at that time. I consider it more likely than not that this would have in turn 
prompted additional checks before releasing the payment. Carrying out those checks, as 
happened a few weeks later when the scam was uncovered, would have meant the scam 
would have come to light sooner than it did - before this and the subsequent payments took 
place. 
I find it most likely that these payments would thus have been prevented, as would the 
ensuing loss. I think it is fair and reasonable to find Monzo liable here because I find this 
potential loss was reasonably within the banks contemplation at the time, given what it 
already knew and what I consider it should have established.
In summary, because Monzo did not take the steps I find it should have done, and because 
those steps would likely have prevented Miss Vs loss, I consider it fair for Monzo to share 
some of the responsibility here. 
To summarise, in reaching this finding, I have taken account of Monzos arguments 
concerning the point of loss. But I am satisfied that based on what it knew, Monzo should 
have taken further steps to protect its customer and that this would have made a difference 
here. I consider this reflects what was reasonably expected of Monzo, in light of both good 
industry practice and awareness of cryptocurrency-based scams at the time. Monzo ought to 
have identified that Miss V was at imminent risk of loss through fraud as a result of this 
payment (and subsequently) - I find this was foreseeable harm, and loss, to Miss V.
Should Miss V share responsibility?
Ive explained above why I think it is fair and reasonable for Monzo to bear some liability for 
what happened. I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair for Miss V to bear some 
share of this responsibility. 
All considered, I find it would be fair for both parties to equally share responsibility for the 
losses following on from the third payment listed above. I will explain why.
I have taken into account everything Miss V has submitted and understand her motivation for 
seeking to invest as she did. I accept she was the victim of a cruel scam here. She entered 
into the arrangements she did in the belief she was entering into genuine investment 
opportunities. I have considerable sympathy for her and the impact of the resulting losses.
But I think there were several aspects here that should reasonably have led Miss V to have 
had concerns that what she was being asked to do wasnt legitimate.
Firstly, the returns it seems she was being offered and then told shed achieved were 
significantly higher in size and rapidity than could be expected for legitimate investments, 
including those bearing significant levels of capital risk. In short, what she was being told 
was simply too good to be true. At the very least, I consider this should have prompted 
additional caution before proceeding. But based on what Ive seen, Miss V hadnt taken even 
basic steps to validate what she was being told (such as checking whether T was registered 
with the FCA) before she sent considerable sums of money. She was placing a huge amount of trust in someone shed never met in person, and whose story had little to back it up 
beyond what he told her.
Had Miss V looked a little further into T I think shed have found little to reassure her. I think 
shed have realised that this likely wasnt legitimate, given the lack of positive internet 
coverage or even registration with a regulator. With all of this factors in mind, while I have 
considerable sympathy for Miss V, I consider she should fairly bear a share of the 
responsibility for the losses she incurred.
It is unclear how Miss V would have utilised the funds she lost through this scam had the 
relevant payments been prevented. But she would not have been deprived of these funds for 
the time she has been. In the circumstances I consider it fair that Monzo should add interest 
to the amount it should now refund Miss V at the rate of 8% simple interest per year.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to partly uphold 
Miss Vs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay 
Miss V:
the sum of £10,616.53, being 50% of the net loss incurred from payment three 
onwards. Monzo may deduct any amounts already reimbursed or returned to Miss V 
relating to these specific payments; and,
8% simple interest per year on this amount, calculated from the date Miss V made 
each payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman