DRN-3361581
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with Chubb European Group SE (trading as Combine Insurance) because 
it didnt tell her about any commission received when it sold her policies. 
Mrs W brings her complaint through a third-party representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to 
all submissions as being made by her personally.   
What happened
Mrs W was sold six accident policies by Chubb during the 1990s and 2000s. Shed raised 
complaints previously about the alleged mis-sale of some of these policies and they were 
upheld in her favour. As a result, she received back the premiums shed paid, plus interest. 
Because of this, I wont be considering the complaint shes made here for those policies as 
shes already been compensated sufficiently, so it wouldnt be fair for me to consider, or 
make any award against those.  
Mrs Ws complaint is that when Chubb sold her policies, it didnt disclose that itd received 
commission each time a new policy was set up. She said this created unfair relationships 
between her and Chubb. Mrs W asked Chubb for information related to the amount of 
commission it received, however, Chubb didnt respond and so she brought her complaint to 
the ombudsman. 
Chubb initially raised concerns about our jurisdiction and whether this was a complaint we 
could consider, given the passage of time thats elapsed. This was addressed by our 
investigator and it was determined this complaint fell within our jurisdiction. Chubb accepted 
our decision and so the investigator moved on to address the complaint. 
Chubb was unable to provide any further information about the sale of these policies, 
including any sales paperwork, owing to the length of time between the sales and Mrs Ws 
complaint  some of which were around 30 years ago. Because of this, there was no 
information about any commission that may have been paid for the sale of each policy. 
Chubb also said there was no legislation, or expectation on it to share this sort of information 
back when it sold policies to Mrs W. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint on the basis that there was no persuasive 
evidence to show that commission was paid to Chubb, or even if it were, there was no 
evidence of how much. Our investigator also highlighted that Plevin didnt apply in the 
circumstances because these were stand-alone policies, rather than ones attached to any 
finance agreements. 
Mrs W disagreed with our investigators findings, in summary, she said; 
Chubb sold an excessive number of new policies which further supports her 
argument that it wasnt looking after her best interests, rather it simply wanted to 
continue selling new policies so it could continue collecting commission from each 
new sale and; 
The report from the FSA, now the Financial Conduct Authority, outlined concerns it 
had about the poor sales practices and commission incentives which underpinned 
the culture within the sales division of Chubb.  
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for this are largely similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. I accept Mrs Ws testimony that there were 
documented problems with the performance of Chubb and the way it sold policies 
previously, but Ive not found this evidence to be persuasive because it relates to activities 
that took place after Chubb sold her those policies. So, I dont think itd be fair to apply that 
retrospectively to Mrs Ws complaint. And Ill go on to explain why.
The crux of the issue here is that theres no persuasive documentary evidence to show 
whether any commission was paid to Chubb for the sale of her policies. And thats what I 
needed to see so I could reasonably determine whether an unfair relationship had occurred. 
Mrs W has made several arguments and submitted a wealth of evidence in an attempt to 
support this, including a report by the FCA, (formerly the FSA), which gave commentary on 
the standards expected of Chubb and its sales representatives. But Im not persuaded that 
any of this evidence successfully demonstrates that a) commission was paid for the sale of 
her policies and b) if it was, how much was paid. And so, I cannot fairly say that Chubb 
received any commission for the sale of each of Mrs Ws policies.
Mrs W highlighted that each time a representative visited her, advice was given to cancel the 
existing policy and incept a new one. She said this successfully demonstrates that Chubb 
were in effect taking advantage and were motivated by receiving commission for the sale of 
each new policy. She explained this was not in her best interest and would therefore be a 
breach of the Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) principles. I understand the link shes making 
here, but for me to make any decision on that point, Id need to see the sales paperwork 
from that time, including documentary evidence of the advice given. But that evidence is not 
available. 
Theres also no evidence of any discussion or advice that may, or may not have been given, 
and no evidence of Mrs W having been charged in the process. Chubb highlighted that there 
was also no fiduciary relationship between it and Mrs W, or that there was any expectation 
that it should share information related to commission at the time the policies were sold. To 
be clear, had commission been exchanged and there was evidence to support the finer 
detail, I would have recommended it share this information with Mrs W. But because there 
isnt any evidence, I cannot make a finding on that point either.  Mrs W provided evidence that Chubb was receiving between 100% and up to 120% of the 
premium back as commission. She suggested this was the reason she was sold six policies 
during that time. But the evidence doesnt relate to the timeframe in which her policies were 
sold. And even if it did, it still wouldnt be persuasive enough for me to make a finding as 
theres nothing specific to say that she received advice to cancel her policies or the reasons 
why. 
There may have been valid reasons for cancelling a policy and taking another, for example, 
she may have decided to incept a new policy with different levels of cover  or there could 
have been changes in her circumstances that could warrant a new policy being sold. Nor 
does the evidence show that the commission percentages applied to the new policies she 
was given. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and Chubb doesnt need to do anything in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman