DRN-4457043
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect her when she was 
the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
Mrs H says that after researching investment opportunities online, on 22 September 2017 
she made a £20,000 payment from her Santander account towards an investment with a 
company which Ill refer to here as (F).  
In February 2023 Mrs H contacted Santander asking for the money to be refunded as F 
had gone into administration and she believed the investment was a scam. Mrs H said 
shed received no warning from Santander at the time of the £20,000 payment  and so 
she didnt think it had done enough to protect her from financial harm. 
Santander said it was likely it had spoken to Mrs H about the £20,000 payment, but due to 
the passing of time, it had no evidence to support that. It said the evidence it had seen 
suggested that F was a legitimate business at the time the payment was made, and it had 
seen no evidence to show F had set out to defraud Mrs H. Santander said this was a civil 
matter between Mrs H and F. Santander tried to recover the funds from the receiving 
bank, but no funds remained. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs H referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. She maintained shed been the victim of an investment scam. And if 
Santander had appropriately intervened when she made the £20,000 payment, she said 
her loss couldve been prevented.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
didnt think any intervention from Santander at the time of the £20,000 payment wouldve 
prevented Mrs Hs loss. Our Investigator also thought Santander had taken reasonable 
steps to try and recover the lost funds. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. She 
maintained that F was an investment scam and Santander shouldve known this was the 
case and taken appropriate steps to warn her before processing the £20,000 payment. 
Mrs H also said Santander had been Fs bank for the period prior to her making the 
£20,000 payment. She said if Santander had closed Fs account because of any 
concerns it had about the legitimacy of F  then it shouldve warned her when she made 
the £20,000 payment. With that in mind, Mrs H thought it essential that we find out the 
reason why Santander closed Fs account as part of our investigation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mrs H was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
about the situation shes found himself in, and I can understand why shed want to do all 
she can to recover the money she lost. But I need to decide whether Santander can 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mrs Hs loss. Overall, Ive decided that it 
cant be. Ill explain why.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far 
less detail than the parties involved. I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by 
this. If there is a submission Ive not addressed; it isnt because I have ignored the point. 
Its simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issue in this 
complaint  that being whether Santander couldve prevented Mrs Hs loss.
I accept the transaction Mrs H made was an authorised payment. So, Mrs H is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, Ive considered whether Santander shouldve done more to prevent Mrs H from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which it should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it 
was particularly out of character.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Santander acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mrs H when she made the £20,000 payment, specifically whether it 
shouldve done more than it did before processing the payment  and if it had, would that 
have made a difference. I also need to decide if Santander ought to have done more than 
it has already done to recover the funds.
Was this a scam?
As our Investigator has explained, whether Mrs H was the victim of a scam, or a failed 
investment, is a difficult point to resolve conclusively  particularly given the passing of 
time here. But for the purpose of this decision, I dont need to make a finding on that point. 
Instead, Im focusing on whether action by Santander couldve prevented Mrs Hs loss 
based on the information available at the time she made the payment.  
Should Santander have intervened before processing the payment?
Given the size of the payment and because it was showing as pending for a day before 
being processed  I think it likely, on balance, that Santander did intervene in the 
payment in some way. And where there is interaction between a bank and its customer 
about a payment, wed expect the bank to ask questions and provide appropriate 
warnings against potential scams so its customer could make an informed decision as to 
whether to continue with the payment. 
Would intervention by Santander have made a difference and prevented Mrs Hs loss?
Because the payment was made in 2017, neither Santander nor Mrs H have any notes 
or recollections of what was specifically discussed or if any warnings were given. 
However, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that any reasonable 
level of intervention by Santander wouldve made a difference. I say this because, even if Mrs H had been prompted by warnings about the potential for 
a scam to carry out checks, Im not persuaded this wouldve given her any obvious 
cause for concern. F was a registered company and there was no information in the 
public domain indicating F was a scam. Mrs H has alleged F was running a Ponzi 
scheme, the nature of which means it often takes some time for what is actually going on 
to become apparent.
I think its also likely Mrs H wouldve told Santander she had a brochure from F about 
the investment, which appeared entirely genuine. 
All this suggests to me that its more likely than not Mrs H wouldve proceeded with the 
transaction  even if Santander had alerted her to the risks involved and the checks she 
should make. I think it wouldve taken something more credible, like regulatory warnings, 
or anything in the public domain suggesting F wasnt legitimate to have concerned 
Santander or made Mrs H pause and think more about her decision to invest.
Ive also thought about Mrs Hs point that she believes F had an account with Santander 
prior to holding an account with a different bank at the time of the payment she made. She 
thinks that its likely Santander ended its relationship with F due to concerns it had that it 
was operating fraudulently, and that this is something it shouldve warned her about at the 
time. Mrs H would like the Financial Ombudsman to ask why Santander ceased providing 
an account to F. 
Information about the reasons for a customer no longer holding an account with a bank 
isnt something that wouldve been known or available to the person Mrs H wouldve been 
dealing with at the time of any intervention about her outgoing payment. So, even if 
Santander had taken a decision to close an account it held with F (something I make no 
finding on), whatever the reasons for this, I dont think it is a reasonable expectation 
for Santander to have made that available to its frontline staff and to have shared 
information about its former customers with current customers wishing to make a 
payment. 
Taking everything into account, I think any action from Santander is unlikely to have made 
a difference. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Santander accountable for 
Mrs Hs loss. 
Id still expect Santander to do all it could to try and recover the lost funds when Mrs H 
alerted it to the scam  even though the likelihood of recovery was slim given almost six 
years had passed. I can see Santander contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as it knew 
about Mrs Hs loss. But had confirmation that no funds remained.
Santander acted promptly here to try and recover the lost funds and so I cant say it 
shouldve done anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman