DRN-3286833
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr K visited a dealership having seen a car advertised that he was interested in 
acquiring. The car around three years old and had a mileage of about 28,500. Mr K took the 
car for a test drive during which a tyre pressure warning light illuminated. He says the 
dealership agreed to rectify the issue before he took it away. Mr K agreed to purchase the 
car via a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
Mr K says he took the car abroad the day after acquiring it in order to use it for a trip that he 
had planned. On his outward journey, Mr K says the tyre pressure warning light kept coming 
back on although he put additional air in, and he also found the car was pulling to the side. 
Mr K says he later discovered that the rear wipers did not work properly nor did the rear 
sprinkler or the front sprinkler for the headlight. He says there was a knocking noise coming 
from the boot as it had a damaged lock.
Mr K decided to take the car to a local garage once he arrived at his destination for a check-
up. He paid for the sprinklers to be repaired and also for two new tyres as a nail was found in 
one and the other was defective. He also paid for the tyres to be tracked. Mr K says the 
garage pointed out to him that the car had been poorly re-sprayed with the paintwork having 
irregular buffing and bubbles under the lacquer. It was also pointed out that the parking 
sensors had been painted over.
On returning to the UK, Mr K made a complaint to VWFS about the quality of the car. He 
asked that it reimburse him for the repairs hed already had carried out and also pay to have 
the rear wiper, boot lock and paintwork repaired.
VWFS agreed for the car to undertake a service at a manufacturer approved garage. Mr K 
also asked the garage to inspect the cars paintwork. The garage confirmed the car had 
been repainted and offered him £250 as compensation, but Mr K decided not to accept that. 
The rear wiper was also repaired.
VWFS sent Mr K its final response letter to his complaint. It said that as the repairs Mr K had 
paid for had been undertaken abroad and not by a manufacturer approved garage it wasnt 
able to reimburse him. VWFS also said that the paintwork was cosmetic and so it wouldnt 
cover the costs of this as it was a used car.
Mr K was unhappy at VWFSs decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied on the 
evidence provided that the car hadnt been supplied in a satisfactory quality. And although 
Mr K had had an opportunity to inspect the car before hed agreed to acquire it, our 
investigator said she wasnt surprised he hadnt spotted the poor quality of the paintwork. 
Our investigator said the manufacturer approved garage that had inspected the car had 
found the paintwork to be poor quality and had offered £250 compensation as a result. And 
although the car was used, our investigator said she didnt think that it was reasonable for a 
three-year old car to have such poor paintwork. 
Our investigator said it would be fair for VWFS to cover the cost of the repairs to the boot 
lock and paintwork; reimburse Mr K the cost of the repairs he paid for while abroad and 
reimburse one quarter of a monthly payment under the agreement due to the time he was 
unable to use the car while it was fixed. She also said that VWFS should pay Mr K £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Mr K agreed with our investigators view, but he has also said that he would agree to settle 
his complaint if VWFS paid him a total amount of £2,000 as compensation so that he can 
sell the car on. However, VWFS disagreed with our investigators view. It said that Mr K had 
viewed the car before agreeing to acquire it and that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
this meant Mr K couldnt later say that the paintwork, which had been visible to him, wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
As the parties were unable to reach agreement then the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr K is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. VWFS is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around three years old and had a mileage of around 28,500. So, some 
issues of maintenance and repair would be expected over time. I also think that a 
reasonable person would expect there to be some minor issues with the paintwork due to 
wear and tear. However, Mr K says that he was advised the car had been the subject of a 
poor quality re-spray. And he has provided some photos to show the quality. Ive also 
seen that the manufacturer approved garage he took the car to at the request of VWFS 
agreed the car had been resprayed and offered £250 compensation for that.
Looking at the evidence about the cars paintwork, I am satisfied that the car has been the 
subect of respray which wasnt of a reasonable standard. The paint is bubbling, has 
irregular buffing and the parking sensors have been painted over. However, VWFS says that as the paintwork was visible to Mr K when he viewed the car then he has accepted its 
standard when he agreed to purchase it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 section 9 states: 
(1 ) Every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory..
(4)The term mentioned in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the quality of 
the goods unsatisfactory -
(a)which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract is made,
(b)where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which that 
examination ought to reveal.
However, here I think that its fair when considering whether Mr K ought to have been aware 
of the state of the paintwork to take into account the following: that he does not appear to 
have been informed the car had been the subject of a respray; that it would be reasonable 
for Mr K not to expect a three-year old car to have required a full respray; that it was a 
mechanic who inspected the car who pointed out the paintwork faults; that the poor standard 
of the paintwork appears to have been endorsed by the garage offering compensation; that 
theres no evidence the cars price reflected the paintwork wasnt of a standard expected on 
a car of that age and mileage and that Mr K bought the car very close to his trip and needed 
it for his travel meaning it was possible he missed the quality of the paintwork. 
So, looking at the factors set out above I am satisfied that it is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances to say that Mr K isnt excluded from raising the standard of the cars 
paintwork when complaining about its quality. And that its fair to consider VWFS as liable for 
the condition of the paintwork of the car. 
In regard to the repairs carried out by Mr K when abroad, Im satisfied on the evidence that 
the issues with the two tyres that required replacing are more likely than not linked to the tyre 
pressure warning light that illuminated during the cars test drive and which the dealer said it 
would sort. I understand one tyre had a nail and the other was defective and Mr K has 
described the car as pulling to the side during both the test drive and after he acquired it. I 
am therefore satisfied that the two tyres replaced by Mr K were worn and/or damaged at the 
point of supply and its fair and reasonable for VWFS to reimburse him those costs. I also 
think its reasonable for VWFS to cover the cost of having the wheels tracked once these 
tyres had been replaced.
Mr K has complained that the boot lock is defective. He says this has been making a 
knocking noise since he acquired the car. I am persuaded by Mr Ks evidence that there is a 
fault with this lock and so I am asking VWFS to cover the cost of any repair required by this 
part.
Ive seen that Mr K had to be without the car for around one week while it was repaired, as 
he lost the use of the car for this period its fair for VWFS to reimburse him for that.
Im also satisfied that Mr K suffered distress and inconvenience having to deal with the faulty 
car. I agree with our investigator that £200 is fair and reasonable to address the impact on 
him.
So, for the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking VWFS to do the following:Arrange for and cover the cost of the repairs to the cars boot look and paintwork and 
that this work should be carried out within a reasonable timescale from the date Mr K 
accepts my view.
Reimburse Mr K the amount it cost him for the repairs he had done abroad 
(approximately £515.52) together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund Mr K a quarter of one monthly rental to cover any loss of use together with 
yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods.
Remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the
agreement.
If VWFS wishes to discuss with Mr K the alternative settlement of paying him a total of 
£2,000 compensation, then that is a matter it can raise directly with him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im asking Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to do the following:
Arrange for and cover the cost of the repairs to the cars boot look and paintwork and 
that this work should be carried out within a reasonable timescale from the date Mr K 
accepts my view.
Reimburse Mr K the amount it cost him for the repairs he had done abroad 
(approximately £515.52) together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund Mr K a quarter of one monthly rental to cover any loss of use together with 
yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods.
Remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the
agreement.
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services wishes to 
discuss with Mr K the alternative settlement of paying him a total of £2,000 compensation, 
then that is a matter it can raise directly with him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman