DRN-3664632
The complaint
Mr W complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy.
 
What happened
Mr W changed his address and contacted One Call by Live Chat to tell it about this. One Call 
said he had to make the change through the online portal, for £24, or it could do it for him for 
£39. Mr W then wrote to One Call informing it of his new address. But it said he had to 
contact it by Live Chat so it could ask specific questions and provide a quote. Mr W didnt do 
this and so One Call sent him notification of the cancellation of his policy. The policy then 
cancelled. Mr W was unhappy with this. He set out various legal arguments why One Call 
shouldnt have cancelled his policy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it 
wasnt our role to comment on specific legal points. She thought One Call was entitled to 
cancel the policy on behalf of the underwriter. She thought Mr W hadnt made his change of 
address through the correct channels. So she thought One Call had cancelled the policy 
fairly and reasonably. 
Mr W asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W provided various legal arguments that he wanted me to consider. But whilst Im mindful 
of the relevant laws, we are an informal dispute resolution service and an alternative to the 
courts. So its not my role to respond to Mr Ws legal arguments. Our approach in cases like 
this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its Terms of Business and fairly and 
reasonably.
I can see that One Calls charges are set out on page 12 of its booklet. These explain that 
there will be a £39 charge if any changes are made to the policy after its accepted, except if 
the change is made on its online portal, in which case the charge is £24. I think these 
charges are clearly set out and Mr W agreed to them when he applied for his policy online 
through One Call. So I think its fair for One Call to apply them. 
On page 7 of its booklet, One Call explains what customers need to do if they need to alter 
their policy:
You must tell us about any of the following changes to your circumstances straight away. If 
you do not tell us about these changes, then your policy may no longer be valid or a claim 
may not be paid. These changes may result in a change to your premium and/or excess 
(where these changes are acceptable to your insurance provider) and will incur a charge of 
£39.00 or £24.00 if the change is made in your customer portal, as well as any provider 
charges or refunds. Alterations to your policy include but are not limited to:
You change your address or the address where you keep the vehicle overnight.
I can see that One Call explained the charges when Mr W called to tell it of his change of 
address. And it told him about his options. But Mr W didnt comply as he didnt want to pay a 
charge. I can understand that Mr W feels that he was unfairly being charged for making a 
simple administrative change. 
But I think a change in address involves a change in risk for the insurer. Mr W had insured 
his motorbike and its new overnight storage arrangement wasnt straightforward. And, as 
One Call is the insurers agent, it reasonably needed to find out more about Mr Ws new 
address, and ask him specific questions, in order to get a new quote for him. 
So I think One Call reasonably asked Mr W to engage with it on its live chat or its portal in 
order to get more information from him. It also reasonably offered to honour the £24 charge 
as Mr W said he wasnt able to complete the change on the portal. 
Mr W declined to do engage with One Call through live chat or the portal. And so One Call 
sent him seven days notice of cancellation of his policy. 
Mr W continued to write to One Call. But he didnt comply with its requests for 
communication by the portal or live chat. He also declined One Calls offer to discuss the 
change over the telephone. 
So One Call cancelled the policy by letter, text and email. The reason given was incomplete 
change of address. I think that was fair and reasonable as the risk had changed and hadnt 
been included on the policy and One Call acted as the insurers agents. And so I dont 
require One Call to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman