DRN-3574619
The complaint
Mr F complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly charged transaction fees 
on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr F says he had delayed an overseas building project given the onset of the Covid 
pandemic, but eventually decided he needed to start the project, so that his extended family 
could be together. Mr F explains he had previously sent payments overseas using a service 
provided by another bank without any additional fees. Mr F says for convenience he used his 
Nationwide credit card to make this payment via the same payment service but noticed 
Nationwide had charged him a cash fee, although his other bank hadnt. 
Mr F says Nationwides terms and conditions are ambiguous regarding these fees and it 
hadnt kept to the spirit of helping customers during the Covid pandemic and it was 
profiteering from his situation. Mr F wants Nationwide to refund the cash charges and 
compensation for the time he has spent dealing with the matter. 
Nationwide says it considers the payment Mr C made from his credit card as a cash 
transaction given the payment wasnt being used for an item/service, and this was detailed 
under its terms and conditions. Nationwide says it was sorry Mr F didnt feel its terms and 
conditions were specific enough and his comments have been logged with the appropriate 
department. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
The investigator felt Nationwides explanation of why it felt this type of transaction was a 
cash payment was sufficient and it was for Mr F to check what charges would be applied to 
his credit card account. The investigator says she was pleased to learn Mr Fs concerns 
regarding the clarity of the terms and conditions had been passed on internally, but 
ultimately the decision to make these charges was a commercial decision for Nationwide to 
take. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr F to learn he had been charged a cash 
transaction fee on his credit card account, when having used a similar payment method with 
another bank, he wasnt. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide acted unfairly when it charged a 
fee to Mr Fs credit card account, when he used his credit card to send a payment to an 
online money transfer operator. 
Mr Fs complaint centres around three main issues, firstly that he had been unfairly charged 
a fee for sending money from his credit card account to an online money transfer operator 
when his other bank hadnt. Secondly Mr F feels the terms and conditions of Nationwides 
credit card are ambiguous over these charges. Finally, Mr F feels Nationwide have taken 
advantage of the Covid pandemic to profit from his position of having to use this method of 
payment, and not acted in the spirit of what was expected by banks and building societies 
during this difficult time. 
Taking these points individually  the first thing to say is because one bank doesnt make 
charges for certain services, thats not to say another bank cant -thats a commercial 
decision for that business, in this case Nationwide, to make. What is important is when 
making charges like this, businesses like Nationwide, need to detail these in its terms and 
conditions. I know that Mr F feels strongly about the ambiguity of the terms and conditions 
and that he cant be expected to check and refer to these on every occasion  but Im not 
fully persuaded by that argument.  
I say this because it remains Mr Fs responsibility to check those terms and conditions 
before making a payment and not rely on the fact another provider didnt previously charge 
him. Here in the terms and conditions, although Mr F may not agree, it does say cash 
advances are transactions which Nationwide regard as cash withdrawals or cash like 
payments. Thinking about this transaction, its fair to say ultimately Mr F was sending funds 
overseas to be collected by a family member, so I cant say it was unreasonable for 
Nationwide to categorise this payment in this way- in any event its not for this service to tell 
Nationwide what transactions it must consider as cash or not  that would be something for 
the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority to consider. 
I understand that Mr Fs concerns about the terms and conditions have been noted and 
logged by Nationwide for future consideration, but thats not something I can insist it acts 
upon. 
Mr F has also made the point that the backdrop of the Covid pandemic meant he was left 
with little other option than to make payments overseas in the way he did, as it wasnt 
possible for him to travel. I can understand, like for many people Covid did impact on 
individuals travel plans, which no doubt would have been upsetting for Mr F, given he 
wanted to complete a building project for his family. That said, I dont support Mr Fs opinion 
Nationwide used the Covid backdrop and his own situation to profiteer, after all even though 
Mr F wasnt happy with the fees it charged him, those fees would have applied before Covid, 
as these were part of its standard terms and conditions and hadnt changed. 
Its worth saying although banks and building societies were given guidance to support 
consumers experiencing financial difficulties as a direct result of the Covid pandemic, it didnt 
extend to businesses being instructed to change or alter its existing charging structures or 
processes. So, I am satisfied that wouldnt be expected of Nationwide here. 
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman