DRN-2975680
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money processed two 
payments out of his account.
What happened
Mr B says he made two separate payments to businesses. He says as a result he moved 
money out of his account but later found out the payments had been recredited and later 
processed which meant his account was overdrawn. Mr B says this caused him distress and 
would like compensation for the mistake and an apology.
Virgin Money says its not made a mistake and says it follows the card provider rules. It says 
normally a merchant will take a payment within 48 hours but on some occasions a merchant 
does not. Virgin Money says in those circumstances it has to re-credit an account until the 
merchant does take the payment and has no control over that process.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account terms and conditions said a payment may be taken between 1 and 10 
days and that Virgin Money had explained the process to Mr B when he called it.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says he remains unhappy with how Virgin Money dealt 
with these payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Virgin Money has fairly explained to Mr B what took place here and why. I 
hope Mr B appreciates that Virgin Money has no control over the payment process, and I 
cant reasonably hold it responsible for a separate business not taking a payment within the 
usual 48-hour time period for doing so. 
I appreciate Mr B spent some time calling Virgin Money about this issue, but I have already 
made clear that I cant find Virgin Money responsible for what took place. And I dont think 
the call or what took place caused any significant impact on Mr B or resulted in any real 
financial loss.
Overall, Im satisfied Virgin Money followed the card provider rules on this sort of issue. And 
in those circumstances, I cant fairly order it to pay compensation or apologise to Mr B as he 
would like. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman