DRN-4099320
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limiteds decision to not meet a 
claim under his car insurance policy because he changed the use of his car. 
All reference to the insurer Mulsanne in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr F bought a car insurance policy with Mulsanne in May 2022. He paid for social, domestic, 
pleasure and commuting (to a single place of work) use. 
In October 2022 Mr F was involved in an incident with another car which he reported to 
Mulsanne. He said the purpose of his journey was to meet a client at a coffee shop. Both Mr 
Fs car and the other car was damaged. The other driver made a claim against Mr Fs policy.
Mr F said he was flustered as hed never had to make a claim before. He later told Mulsanne 
he was picking up breakfast on his way to the office and was meeting a client there. 
Mulsanne declined Mr Fs claim. It said it was obligated to deal with the (other driver) third 
partys claim under the Road Traffic Act as Mr Fs last insurer. Mulsanne said it wasnt 
offering indemnity for Mr F as he was using his car for business use when the incident 
happened and his policy didnt cover him for that. This meant that Mulsanne would look to 
recover the costs it pays to settle the claim from Mr F directly.
In December 2022 Mr F complained to Mulsanne. In February 2023 Mulsanne didnt uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. It said Mr F wasnt covered for the trip when the incident happened as he 
said he was driving to meet a client at a coffee shop. 
Mr F asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought it should be upheld. Mr F 
told us that he used to work in an office, but this had changed to working sometimes from 
home and sometimes in the office. 
Mulsanne had shown that if it changed Mr Fs policy to include business use, it would have 
charged him an extra premium of 4.6%. As Mulsanne believed Mr F was using his car for 
business use when the incident happened, the Investigator thought the fairest outcome was 
for Mulsanne to meet the claim on a proportionate basis, so cover 95.4% of the costs - as Mr 
F hadnt paid the additional premium difference for business use. 
So in April 2023 the Investigator recommended Mulsanne meet 95.4% of the costs to settle 
the claim, including the third party claim. If Mr F had paid costs under the claim (to repair his 
car), she recommended Mulsanne reimburse Mr F and pay interest at 8% simple interest a 
year on the reimbursement. 
Mr F accepted the Investigators view. Mulsanne didnt respond. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy says he must notify Mulsanne of certain changes after he bought the policy:
Changes to your insurance
It is important that you tell us immediately about any changes to the 
information that you have provided which is detailed in your statement of fact, 
schedule and certificate of motor insurance.
Failure to notify us of any changes may result in your policy not being valid 
and we may not pay your claim or only pay part of your claim. We may also 
cancel or void your policy.
For example, you must tell us about:
You change what you or anyone covered by this policy use your car for (for 
example, you start using it for business purposes or delivery purposes even if 
you have arranged separate insurance for this);
I think it was reasonable for Mulsanne to rely on Mr Fs account that he was meeting a client 
at a coffee shop as he confirmed this in two calls following the incident. 
Where there is a change after a policy is set up, a customer has an ongoing duty of 
disclosure. However, where the change in risk isnt fundamental, we dont think its fair or 
reasonable for an insurer to change its mind about what cover it provides. 
If Mulsanne had been notified of the change in use to include business use for Mr F, it would 
have continued to provide insurance and charged an extra 4.6% of the original premium Mr 
F paid. And so in this case I think Mulsannes application of the change in risk clause is 
unfair. I think a fairer outcome is for Mulsanne to settle the claim on a proportionate basis 
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
I understand Mr F has received correspondence from the third partys solicitor about claim 
costs. I can see that the solicitor has sent a copy to Mulsanne. So if Mr F accepts my 
decision, it is for Mulsanne to act on Mr Fs behalf and deal with the third party 
correspondence in order to settle the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Mulsanne Insurance Company 
Limited to settle the claim under Mr Fs car insurance policy proportionately under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
If Mr F has paid claim costs - subject to reasonable proof of payment - I require Mulsanne 
Insurance Company Limited to reimburse Mr F. 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited should pay interest on the reimbursement at a rate of 
8% simple interest a year from the date of payment to the date it reimburses Mr F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman