DRN-3421696
The complaint
Mr W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim on his pet insurance policy after an allergic reaction to a flea collar.
What happened
Mr W said he bought his cat a flea collar after it began scratching. But his pet had an allergic 
reaction to the collar. After speaking to his insurers vet he took his cat to a pet hospital for 
immediate treatment. Mr Ws pet recovered. But when he submitted a claim for the cost of 
the treatment it was declined. Mr W felt Red Sands had treated him unfairly. Itd selectively 
interpreted a clause in the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. Itd been his 
decision and not a vets recommendation to use the collar. So Mr W wants Red Sands to 
settle his claim. 
Red Sands said the reaction to the collar was associated with the treatment for fleas. It 
would be considered preventative treatment. And it was therefore excluded from cover by 
the pet insurance policy. So it felt itd declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Red Sands response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the documentation for Mr Ws pet 
insurance policy. And our investigator felt the terms made it clear that all treatments around 
worms and fleas werent covered by the pet insurance policy.
Our investigator could see Mr W had drawn attention to the wording of the policy. The flea 
treatment hadnt been recommended by a vet. So Mr W didnt think it was fair for Red Sands 
to exclude his claim. But our investigator felt the policy made it clear all treatment as a result 
of worms or fleas wasnt covered. So she didnt think it made a difference whether a vet had 
recommended the treatment or not. And she wouldnt be asking Red Sands to do anything 
more.  
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. The policy clearly said recommended by a vet. So 
hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the upset this complaint has caused Mr W. And I can appreciate how 
Red Sands decision to decline the claim wouldve made a difficult situation more upsetting.
But for me to say Red Sands has done something wrong Id need to be able to say that its 
decision to decline the claim failed to follow the terms and conditions of the pet insurance 
policy. And on this occasion I dont think thats the case.
The pet insurance policy summarises the key policy features and benefits at the start of the 
document. And it lists any significant limits or exclusions. 
Under what is covered the policy says, all reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a 
vet due to accident, illness or disease up to the maximum benefit limit as specified in your 
schedule.
A number of significant exclusions or limitations are then listed under what is not covered? 
And that includes costs for cosmetic, elective, routine or preventative, treatments, 
examinations, vaccinations, spaying, castration, breeding and any claims as a result of any 
of these procedures.
So I cant say Red Sands acted unfairly in declining Mr Ws claim as a preventative 
treatment or as the result of taking that preventative action. Mr W purchased a flea collar to 
prevent his pet from scratching. And unfortunately as a result the pet suffered an allergic 
reaction that needed treatment.
I know Mr W followed the advice on Red Sands website. And his pet unexpectedly needed 
treatment after a reaction. Mr W has noted that the policy document later provides a more 
exhaustive list of exclusions including costs for or related to cosmetic treatment, elective 
treatment, routine treatment or preventive treatment recommended by a vet to prevent an 
injury or illness for whatever reason; including killing and controlling fleas and worms.
Mr W feels the exclusion specifically refers to treatment recommended by a vet. And that 
wasnt the case on this occasion. But as Ive mentioned above, the significant exclusions or 
limitations listed at the start of the pet insurance policy make no reference to whether or not 
a vet was required to recommend the treatment. The exclusion applies to any preventative 
treatment or any claim as a result of the preventative treatment. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. Red Sands has a responsibility to 
assess each claim it receives against the terms and conditions of the policy. And I think its 
done so fairly on this occasion. So I wont be asking Red Sands to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman