DRN-2673397
The complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wished to reject the 
vehicle.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties. So Ill summarise them.
Mr M complained about the quality of the vehicle which he said experienced several faults 
after he acquired it from new. 
An investigators view recommended that he be allowed to reject it. As FCE didnt agree, the 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman. But before a final decision could be issued on his 
complaint Mr M sold the vehicle in a part-exchange deal.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 February 2021. I said that I proposed 
to uphold the complaint. And that Mr M should be refunded his deposit (£200) and be 
awarded £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Since then both parties have replied and accepted my provisional decision. I thank the 
parties for their replies. As both agreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change my provisional view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr M was disappointed that this new vehicle didnt perform as well as he 
expected.
Its not in dispute that the vehicle experienced a number of faults. And was repaired on  
several occasions before he sought to reject it. Its also accepted that despite these issues it 
was able to cover approximately 36,000 miles in the period of nearly three years that Mr M 
used it.
Had Mr M been able to reject the vehicle and end the agreement we would have still 
expected him to pay for fair use. Which would have been in the form of the monthly 
payments he made. And which FCE would be entitled to retain. But he wouldve received his 
initial deposit back.
Mr M indicated that he obtained a small amount of equity when he exchanged the vehicle. 
So it doesnt seem as if there was any consequential loss arising from the settlement of the 
agreement.
The refund of his deposit will now effectively allow Mr M to achieve the same outcome as if 
hed returned the vehicle (as opposed to selling it) to FCE.
I find that is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
I require FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit to take the following action:
1. Refund Mr Ms deposit of £200 together with simple interest of 8% per year from date 
of payment to date of settlement;
2. Pay Mr M £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit should now take the action Ive stipulated in the 
preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman