DRN-1654437
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the valuation Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided for his 
motorbike after a claim on his motorbike insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H says a few months after buying a brand-new motorbike in August 2019, it was stolen. 
The motorbike was later recovered and was deemed a total loss due to the damage caused. 
Mr H says the amount Advantage offered for his motorbike isnt enough and he wants 
Advantage to pay him the full purchase price of the motorbike which was around £5,000. 
Mr H is also unhappy with how long it took Advantage to make the interim payment to the 
finance provider and wants further compensation for the delays in reaching a conclusion on 
his claim.
Advantage said in order to calculate valuations, they use two motor trade guides and take an 
average of the guides. Advantage said the average of the two highest motor trade guides 
was around £3,500. However, they valued the motorbike at the highest figure of around 
£3,850. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. He checked the 
various valuation guides and explained our approach to these cases to Mr H. Ultimately; he 
said he thought Advantages offer was fair. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role isnt to decide the value of Mr Hs motorbike. But it is to decide whether or not the 
approach Advantage have taken to reach the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. To do 
this, we look at whether Advantage have applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued 
the motorbike fairly. 
Mr H says he should receive a full refund of the invoice price of the motorbike as it was 
purchased within three months of the claim being made. But the terms of Mr Hs policy say 
Advantage have to pay him the market value of the motorbike. They dont say that hell 
receive the full invoice price for the motorbike.
Market value is defined in Mr Hs policy as The cost of replacing your motorcycle in the 
United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of a similar make, model, 
age and condition. Publications may be used which refer to vehicle values such as Glass's 
Guide to assess the market value, with an allowance being made for the mileage, condition 
and circumstances of purchase by you.
Its standard practice for the industry to use trade valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a motorbike. And I dont think this is unreasonable. The valuations the 
guides are based on are the advertised price and likely sales prices of similar motorbikes 
with similar age and mileage for sale at the time of loss. 
I can understand Mr Hs disappointment about the valuation placed on his motorbike. 
Especially as he hadnt had the motorbike for a long time before the theft happened. But I 
will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance, I can see that Advantage deemed Mr Hs motorbike a total loss. This was 
because the level of damage caused would have cost close to the motorbikes value to fix, if 
not more. Advantage then looked to provide the market value of his motorbike by looking at 
the trade valuation guides which give a suggested value of his motorbike at the time of loss. 
Ive looked at Advantages valuations and Ive also looked at this services own independent 
valuations. I can see Advantage have offered Mr H the amount of the highest valuation, 
which is higher than the valuations carried out independently by our service. So, although I 
can understand Mr Hs disappointment, I think Advantages offer is fair and in line with the 
general market value of his motorbike.
I understand Mr H is also unhappy with how long it took Advantage to make an interim 
payment to the finance company  this was the amount Advantage offered Mr H for the 
value of his motorbike. Mr H has also asked for compensation for the time it took to reach a 
conclusion on his claim  Mr H has said he had to pay for a new vehicle whilst still continuing 
to pay the finance for his motorbike.
Sometimes, there can be some inconvenience caused in a claim like Mr Hs  particularly as 
Mr H would understandably want matters resolved quickly. I appreciate there may have been 
a slight delay in the interim payment being made to the finance provider. However, Mr H 
hasnt said this has caused any detriment to him. In any case, I can see the interim payment 
didnt cover the full cost of the outstanding finance amount. So, whilst I appreciate there may 
have been a delay, Mr H wouldve still needed to continue to pay the finance off as the 
amount offered by Advantage for Mr Hs motorbike wouldnt have covered the full cost of the 
remaining finance. 
I note Mr H has made a comment about the way weve handled these types of complaints 
before and what weve asked the business to do to resolve them. Im unable to comment on 
this as Im only looking at what has happened in Mr Hs case and the policy terms that apply 
to him.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman