DRN-2247934
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited have turned down his claim on his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr Bs phone was stolen from his driveway. He says the phone was left in the 
cup holder of his car, and the car had only been on his drive for around 15 minutes at the 
time the phone was stolen.
Mr B claimed on his policy a few days later, and after Assurant turned it down he 
complained. Assurant explained they turned down Mr Bs claim for his phone because he left 
it in the cupholder of his car, and hed told them he hadnt locked the car believing it was 
safe. Assurant quoted a term of the insurance policy which said if they believe someone 
hasnt taken care of their phone, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, then theyd turn 
down the claim.
Unhappy with this Mr B asked us to look into things  saying hed only got the phone in the 
last month as his previous phone wasnt keeping its charge. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and found Assurant had acted fairly. She said this is because the 
car was parked in an open driveway, wasnt locked and the phone wasnt locked out of sight 
in a glove box for example.
Mr B didnt agree. He said its not like hes left his phone in a public place. And although he 
doesnt think him having an open drive is relevant, its set back quite far from the road, and is 
closed in by walls and a hedge. Mr B said he felt his car should be considered a safe place 
when parked on his drive, so because he didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say Im sorry to hear of the situation Mr B has found himself in. Its not in 
dispute a genuine theft has occurred, and I can imagine thats extremely unpleasant. But I 
think its important to explain in complaints like this I need to look closely to understand 
whether Assurant have acted fairly in applying the policy terms.
These policy terms effectively say Mr B need to take reasonable care of his phone, and this 
means not leaving it somewhere it might be stolen. And if you do need to leave it 
somewhere ensuring its locked away out of sight if possible. The terms go on to say if Mr B 
hasnt done that, then Assurant will turn down the claim.
Mr B has explained when he got home he left his phone in the car with the charging cable 
showing, the car wasnt locked, and he was away from his car for 15 minutes. With this in 
mind I dont think I can reasonably say Mr B did take reasonable care. He didnt ensure any 
trace of his phone was out of sight, didnt lock his car, and he left it for a sufficiently long time 
that he couldnt prevent the theft.
I do note Mr Bs comments about the driveway being quite far back from the road and being 
closed in so it should be considered a safe space. I do understand Mr Bs argument here, 
but for the reasons Ive explained above Mr B didnt take reasonable care, so I wont order 
Assurant to pay the claim for this reason.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Assurant have applied the policy terms fairly, 
and turned down the claim in line with them.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman