DRN-3721980
The complaint
Mrs S complains that due to failings on the part of AJ Bell Management Limited, she wasnt 
able to sell shares she held online when the market opened.
In order to put matters right Mrs S wants AJ Bell to pay her the difference between the value 
she believes she would have achieved if she had been able to trade online when the market 
opened, and the indicative price she was quoted when she telephoned AJ Bell to discuss the 
problems she was having that were preventing her from placing a trade.
What happened
On 8 April 2022, Mrs S logged on to her AJ Bell share dealing account and tried to place a 
trade to sell over 2,700,000 shares. I understand that Mrs S expected the shares to 
commence trading that day at around 0.6 pence per share. 
It appears that the company had changed its name and, due to an error on AJ Bells part, the 
change of name had not been updated on its website before the market opened. As a result, 
Mrs S was unable to place an online trade in the stock. Mrs Ss representative telephoned 
AJ Bell and explained that Mrs S wanted to sell her shares but had been unable to trade 
online. 
The representative offered to place the trade for Mrs S several times during the conversation 
with her representative and provided an indicative price of 0.3 pence per share. Mrs Ss 
representative said Mrs S did not want to place a trade as the share price had dropped. He 
explained that Mrs S had wanted to sell her holding when the market opened. He said Mrs S 
had been prevented from doing so as AJ Bell had not updated the company name on its 
platform. A complaint was raised on Mrs Ss behalf.
In response to Mrs Ss complaint AJ Bell apologised for its failure to update its records to 
reflect the new name and ticker for the company Mrs S held shares in. It offered to pay Mrs 
S £150 for the trouble and upset its error had caused her.
It noted Mrs S had asked it to pay her the difference between the 0.45 pence per share, that 
she understood could have been achieved if she had been able to sell her shares when the 
market opened, and the 0.3 pence per share indicative price that was provided to her 
representative during the telephone call on 8 April 2022. 
AJ Bell said it didnt think it needed to compensate Mrs S for any perceived financial loss 
as a result of being unable to sell shares at a price that was unattainable.
It noted that Mrs S had not been logged onto its website when the market opened. It said its 
records showed that she had logged on at 08.02 am. It explained however, that even if Mrs 
S had been logged on and ready to place a trade online when the market opened this would 
not have been possible, regardless of its failure to update the name of the company on its 
dealing platform. It referred to the terms and conditions for Mrs Ss account, which set out 
that no Retail Service Provider (RSP) quotes would be returned when an online quote was 
requested in the opening, intra-day or closing auctions. 
It also said that its records showed that the highest price achieved for shares sold that day 
was 0.41 pence per share, and it said the 0.45 pence per share Mrs S had referred to had 
not been achieved that day. 
It noted that during its telephone call with Mrs Ss representative on 8 April 2022, the share 
price dropped from 0.35 pence per share at 08.10 am, to the indicative price its 
representative had provided of 0.3 pence per share at 08.13 am. Mrs Ss representative had 
said Mrs S didnt want to sell her shares at an indicative price of 0.3 pence per share.
Based on the information available AJ Bell said it didnt think Mrs S had wanted to sell her 
shares at less than 0.45 pence per share. As this price was not achieved at any point on 8 
April 2022 for the volume of shares Mrs S wanted to sell, it said it didnt think it needed to 
compensate Mrs S for the fall in the value of the share price between the price she could 
potentially have achieved shortly after the open (0.41 pence per share) and the indicative 
price quoted when her representative spoke to it of 0.3 pence per share. 
Mrs S did not accept AJ Bells response and referred the matter to this service. She said she 
felt AJ Bell should compensate her for the fall in value of the share price from the 0.41 pence 
per share that she could have achieved if she had been able to trade online shortly after the 
market opened and the indicative price she was quoted of 0.3 pence per share when she 
spoke to AJ Bell.
Mrs S said that when she telephoned AJ Bell she was told that a trade could be arranged 
on the telephone at 0.3 GBX (£0.003), a significant discount to the price I should have been 
able to obtain had AJ Bell had their house in order to enable an on-line trade (the standard 
means of trading on their platform). I was unprepared to sell at this level and left hugely 
disappointed and frustrated that I had missed the opportunity to sell at a higher level (say, 
0.41 GBX) due to AJ Bell's errors.
Our investigator said he felt the £150 AJ Bell had offered to pay Mrs S for the worry and 
inconvenience she experienced when she was unable to place a trade in the shares online 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
He said that having listened to the call Mrs S and her representative made to AJ Bell on 8 
April 2022, he was satisfied that Mrs S had not wanted to sell the shares for less than 0.45 
pence per share. He noted that Mrs S had chosen not to sell the shares and crystallize her 
loss. In view of this he said he didnt think it would be reasonable to expect AJ Bell to 
compensate Mrs S for a notional loss. 
Mrs S did not accept our investigators view. She said, in summary, that she felt it was 
utterly illogical to me for the Outcome to fail to be persuaded that I would have sold the 
shares. And she said:
The very purpose of me going on-line (and failing to achieve a sale on-line due to the failure 
of AJ Bells systems) was to sell the shares. Similarly, the very purpose of the phone 
conversation was to try to achieve a sale. By the time that a sale was possible, several 
minutes after the market had opened, the price had moved significantly rendering a sale 
unpalatable. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that AJ Bell should have updated its platform to reflect the change of 
name for the company Mrs S held shares in before the market opened on 8 April 2022. 
What is in dispute is whether, but for AJ Bells error, Mrs S would have accepted an offer 
price of 0.41 pence per share.
Having carefully considered this matter I dont think it would be fair to require AJ Bell to pay 
Mrs S the difference between the maximum price she could have achieved for the shares, 
0.41 pence per share, and the indicative price that was quoted (but was not accepted) of 0.3 
pence per share. Ill explain why.
I have carefully listened to the recording of the telephone conversation Mrs S and her 
representative had with AJ Bell on 8 April 2022.
Mrs Ss representative said:
What I dont understand about today was they appear to have opened on screen at 0.45 
(pence) and yet the deal was they were coming back at 0.6...In all the paperwork behind all 
the details of the company changing names etc, the deal was at 0.6, so I couldnt understand 
why it was automatically 25% lower before we even started.Who can give me advice on 
this?
AJ Bell explained that as an execution only broker it couldnt provide advice and confirmed 
that the highest price achieved for sales of shares in the company, so far that morning, had 
been 0.41 pence per share. It noted that a price of 0.45 pence per share had not been 
achieved.  
As Mrs S will be aware, the share price for penny shares can be very volatile. There is also 
usually a wide bid/offer spread.
It appears from the call recording I have listened to that initially Mrs Ss representative 
thought a price of 0.45 pence per share could have been achieved if Mrs S had been able to 
trade online when the market opened. He commented,  the price has dropped like a stone 
which is why Im so cross about it. 
I do appreciate that it would have been disappointing to be told that the indicative price was 
0.3 pence per share, particularly when it appears Mrs S had expected the opening price to 
be around 0.6 pence per share. But I cant reasonably hold AJ Bell responsible for the fall in 
the share price, or any expectations Mrs S might have had about the opening price.
I have very carefully considered whether Mrs S would have sold her shares, either online or 
over the phone if she had received an indicative price of 0.41 pence per share. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs S says she would have been willing to 
accept a price of 0.41 pence per share. But, in the absence of anything contemporaneous 
that shows or suggests Mrs S would have accepted this price, (for example if Mrs S had placed a limit order at 0.41 pence per share) I cant safely find that Mrs S would have 
accepted a price of 0.41 pence per share.
When a customer suffers a loss, this service expects them to take reasonable steps to 
mitigate that loss. I cant reasonably find that Mrs S did so. There was no guarantee that the 
share price would increase, and I am satisfied that Mrs S and her representative should 
have been aware of this when they chose not to sell the shares at an indicative price of 0.3 
pence per share. Mrs S was, of course, free not to sell the shares and I think she chose not 
to do so in the hope and expectation that the share price would increase.
It is unfortunate that the share price did not increase but I cannot reasonably require AJ Bell 
to compensate Mrs S for the difference between the share price she could have achieved 
and the indicative price she was offered, when she chose not to sell the shares and 
crystallise the loss.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
I understand that the £150 AJ Bell has offered Mrs S for the trouble and inconvenience its 
failure to update the company name on its platform, before the market opened is still 
available. I simply leave it to Mrs S to decide if she now wishes to accept this offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman