DRN-3872583
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect his father and this 
resulted in financial losses of over £32,500. Mr D brings this complaint in his capacity as the 
executor of his late-fathers estate.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail. But, in summary:
Mr D says his father was elderly and vulnerable. He has identified over 70 transactions 
that took place between May 2016 and April 2018 which he considers to be suspicious. 
He thinks HSBC failed in its duty of care to protect him and should refund the disputed 
transactions.
HSBC didnt agree that it ought to have prevented any of the disputed transactions. But it 
admitted it could have better handled Mr Ds enquiries. As a result, it offered him £500 
compensation to recognise any worry or frustration caused. Mr D remained unhappy and 
asked us to review the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the bank had acted unreasonably. So she didnt recommend 
that it should refund any of the disputed transactions. Mr D disagreed, so the complaint 
has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision hasnt been an easy one to make. The events in question date back some time 
which, despite what Mr D says, does make it more difficult to decide as banks arent required 
to keep records indefinitely. Ive also had to rely entirely on Mr D to tell me what he thinks 
happened rather than having his fathers own recollections.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr Ds father isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with 
the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Ive considered 
whether Mr Ds father authorised the transactions thatve been disputed  and so, in line with 
the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payments or gave consent 
for someone else to complete them. 
Ive also taken into account that, as Mr D points out, HSBC has certain obligations when it 
comes to the protection and fair treatment of vulnerable customers and the prevention of 
fraud. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Overall I dont agree the bank failed in its duty of care to Mr Ds father. And, in all the 
circumstances of the complaint, I think its more likely than not he either undertook all of the 
disputed transactions himself or allowed someone else to undertake them on his behalf. Ive 
carefully considered Mr Ds assertions before reaching this conclusion and I would note in 
particular that:
I have no reason to doubt what Mr D tells us about his fathers physical health. But, prior 
to his death, he seems to have been living independently  albeit in sheltered 
accommodation  and had no formal care packages in place. Nor was there a Power of 
Attorney, or any other arrangements, in place with the bank allowing a third party to help 
with his financial affairs. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Ds father (or anyone else who 
may have had concerns about him) told the bank he needed any sort of assistance. And, 
while his physical frailty and age might well have been visual indicators of vulnerability, 
the bank had no concerns about his mental capacity. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call between Mr Ds father and the bank from July 2019, 
four months before he died, in which he reports receiving suspicious phone calls. The 
bank has noted that Mr Ds father seemed fully aware in this call, exhibited no signs of 
vulnerability or any need of financial support. And Im minded to agree. I also note Mr D 
has made no suggestion that his father lacked mental capacity and/or was unable to 
manage his own financial affairs.
Ive had difficulty understanding how exactly Mr D has identified the disputed 
transactions given that he doesnt seem to have been closely involved in his fathers day-
to-day activities. In particular, hes pointed to some higher value and frequent cash 
withdrawals and commented that his father couldnt have easily attended the places the 
transactions were made due to his mobility issues. But there are other, lower value but 
very frequent payments which he hasnt disputed  including supermarkets, off-licenses 
and restaurants  which his father would also have had to travel to. And the banks 
records indicate that the majority of debit card payments were carried out using the 
actual card and the four-digit PIN. 
Mr D is concerned with the different processes followed in branch when cheques were 
cashed. I accept his suggestion that some of the withdrawal slips dont seem to have 
been completed in his fathers handwriting. But the records indicate that some of those 
withdrawals were permitted after his father verified his identity using his passport. And I 
cant rule out the possibility that Mr D fathers may have asked the branch cashiers or a 
friend/helper to complete the withdrawal slips and/or the cheques. The bank has also 
reviewed the signatures on the withdrawal slips and the cheques and considers them to 
be consistent.
Mr D has suggested theres something sinister and/or suspicious in the fact his fathers 
bank account statements, for the period July 2015 to July 2018, were missing from his 
home. But he hasnt queried any transactions before May 2016 or after April 2018. And I 
think theres the possibility his father simply disposed of those earlier statements. 
Alternatively, if  as Mr D suggests  his father didnt receive those statements its 
strange that he didnt query this with the bank given that it seems he was visiting the 
branch on occasion and able to call them. And, as Ive said, theres been no suggestion 
that he lacked mental capacity to handle his own financial affairs.Mr D seems to have suggested to the bank that there might have been someone who 
was taking advantage of his father, including bank staff. But hes not said as much to this 
service. Hes provided no explanation about who mightve been in a position to exploit 
his father. Nor has he explained if there was someone who mightve genuinely been 
helping his father, given his physical disabilities. On that note, in the application for 
Attendance Allowance his father completed in late-2015, he stated that his late-partners 
daughter helped him on a daily basis. Mr D has disputed transactions made between 
May 2016 and April 2018. But his father didnt pass away until November 2019. And I 
find it difficult to accept that someone who may have been taking advantage of his father 
for two years would simply have stopped doing so, particularly while there was still 
money in his account.
I note what Mr D has said about particular tranches of cash withdrawals being out of 
character. But Ive looked at all the activity on his account from 2014 onwards and I see 
the account often had a healthy balance and didnt go overdrawn. With this and 
everything else Ive said in mind, I dont think the transactions Mr D has disputed stand 
out as being particularly unusual or suspicious such that the bank ought to have 
intervened. Or, if they had intervened, I cant fairly say that this wouldve made a 
difference given what Ive already concluded about his fathers mental capacity and the 
absence of any specific suggestion that someone was exploiting him.
In all the circumstances of the complaint, I cant fairly hold the bank liable for the losses that 
have been claimed.
Mr D has also expressed concern about the way HSBC dealt with his allegations. As noted 
above, the bank has already offered £500 compensation to recognise any failings. Im 
unable to make an additional award because Mr D isnt an eligible complainant in his own 
right. He is only eligible to bring the disputed transaction complaint by virtue of being the 
executor of his late-fathers estate. So I have no power to make an award of compensation 
relative to any distress and/or inconvenience hes personally suffered while bringing that 
complaint. Its up to Mr D if he now wishes to accept HSBCs offer and he should contact the 
bank directly in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
his late-fathers estate, to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman