DRN-2626403
The complaint
Ms H has complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has dealt with 
her mortgage application. In particular, Ms H is unhappy that Halifax has kept a retainer over 
a proportion of the funds, when it previously told her that the money could be released in 
stage payments. 
To put matters right, Ms H wants Halifax to compensate her for the considerable upset, 
stress and inconvenience to which she has been put, to reimburse a non-refundable deposit 
she paid to her builders and to pay for the increased cost of the building work she needs to 
do.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, what happened is this: In early 2018 Ms H was purchasing her property under the 
Right to Buy. The property was of a particular type of construction called PRC. In about 
March 2018 Ms H approached Halifax for a mortgage to assist her with the purchase. 
Halifaxs policy is that it will not lend on this type of property unless the property has been, or 
is to be, repaired under an acceptable repair scheme supported by appropriate warranties or 
certificates. Ms H was aware of this and was borrowing money to carry out the repairs as 
well as additional renovations to the property. The PRC work could only be carried out either 
by specialist PRC builders or under supervision of a specialist PRC engineer.
Ms H has told us that shed already started looking for a specialist contractor, and had found 
one (V) which she wanted to use. In February 2018 V had given Ms H a quote for the PRC 
repair work to be carried out and to construct a porch on the side of the property.
The purchase and mortgage were delayed for a while due to boundary issues, but on 17 July 
2018 told V she wanted work to start in September 2018. V told Ms H that they were fully 
booked for the rest of the year so Ms H instructed another firm of builders (MB). On 23 July 
2018 Ms H paid MB a deposit of £3,200 as a retainer for them to carry out the work. MB 
were not specialist PRC contractors.
The mortgage application was resumed in October 2018. After asking the mortgage adviser, 
Ms H was told that stage payments could be made to the builders.
A mortgage offer was issued on 4 January 2019. This initially didnt contain a retainer, but it 
was immediately amended to show that Halifax would keep back £31,550 of the advance 
until it was satisfied that the work it required to be done had been carried out.
At the end of January 2019 Ms H contacted a specialist PRC company. On 29 January 2019 
Ms H was advised by Mr J of that firm:
Before you undertake any works you will need to appoint a PRC Engineer so that 
the works are built in accordance with the licence, otherwise a PRC certificate cannot 
be issued I can put you in contact with an Engineer who will oversee the works for 
you at the appropriate time. (my emphasis)
The mortgage completed on 11 March 2019. Almost immediately after that, MB began the 
building work. 
On 15 March 2019 Ms H was told by a PRC Engineer, Mr G: 
Should [MB] require a scope of works and a method statement with periodic 
inspections of the property, to be confident that the repair has been carried out in 
accordance with a license, the cost for this will be circa £6,000.00. This cost will 
include issuance of a Retrospective Certificate, the cost as you quoted is simply for 
the Certificate. Should you decide that you simply wish to engage our services at 
the end of the project then the total cost will be £1,495.00 to include the Engineers 
Inspection and Certification, clearly the danger with this is that the criteria of the 
license may not have been met and therefore Certification would not be possible. I 
trust that this gives you a clearer idea of the requirements of Certification 
On 16 March 2019 Ms H asked for a stage payment so she could make a payment to MB 
Halifax refused to release any funds as there was no PRC certification for the work already 
carried out. Halifaxs mortgage adviser consulted its surveyor who said a stage payment 
could be released upon seeing a copy of the Certificate of Repair from the consultant who 
supervised the work, detailing the PRC repair specification under which the works were 
carried out. This was confirmed to Ms H on 26 March 2019.
Because Ms H wasnt able to make stage payments to MB, they were unable to continue 
with the work. Under the terms of her agreement with MB, as theyd begun work, the £3,200 
deposit was non-refundable.
Also on 26 March 2019 Ms H found a PRC specialist building firm which could carry out the 
work and issue the certification. Ms H said she would have to try to cancel her contract with 
MB and try to get some of her deposit back. Ms H was unhappy that she wouldnt now be 
able to go ahead with having a porch built but was glad that shed now found the right 
builders to complete the repair works.
Ms H complained to Halifax. She said shed been led to believe that stage payments 
wouldnt be a problem and that Halifaxs mortgage adviser had been happy with her choice 
of MB to carry out the work.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter, Halifax said that Ms H had 
been given incorrect information about the staged payments. It offered £500 compensation 
for this. But Halifax didnt think it had done anything else wrong. (In fact, Halifax was incorrect about this, as stage payments were always allowed  as long as they were 
supported by PRC Certificates.)
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Ms H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Initially the investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, but after further review of 
the timeline of events, he reached a different conclusion. The investigator was satisfied that 
Ms H had been aware since January 2019 that if she wanted MB to carry out the work, shed 
need a specialist engineer to provide certification.
Ms H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She was, naturally, unhappy that the investigators findings had changed, after 
hed initially found in her favour. Ms H reiterated her concerns that shed been told by Halifax 
that stage payments could be made and that Halifax had gone back on this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing everything Ms H and Halifax have said, I have disappointing news for Ms H: 
Im not upholding her complaint. These are my reasons.
The timeline of events shows that Ms H knew in 2018 that shed need a specialist PRC 
builder to carry out the building work. Indeed, she originally chose a PRC builder (V), who 
was ultimately unable to carry out the work. 
In July 2018, six months before the mortgage offer was issued, Ms H paid the £3,200 
deposit to MB to carry out the work. Im satisfied Ms H was aware that MB was not a 
specialist PRC builder. Ms H says the agreement with MB was that the deposit was 
refundable if they didnt begin work.
Im satisfied that the decision to instruct MB to begin work after the mortgage completed was 
entirely the responsibility of Ms H. It was up to her, not Halifax, to determine if they were 
suitable for the job and, if not, what she would need to do to ensure the work was properly 
carried out by MB and certified by a PRC engineer. There is nothing to suggest Halifax 
approved Ms Hs choice of MB to carry out the work.
At the end of January 2019, a few weeks after the mortgage offer was issued, Ms H was told 
by Mr J that she would need to appoint a PRC Engineer to oversee the repairs before any 
work began. Despite this, once the mortgage completed, Ms H allowed MB to begin work.  
Ms H had also been told by Mr G of the additional costs involved (£6,000) of getting a PRC 
engineer to carry out periodic inspections of the work and issue certificates for work already 
done. 
Its unfortunate that, once Ms H had been told by Mr J in January 2019 of the need to 
instruct a PRC engineer before work started, she didnt take any steps to find out how much 
this would cost until after the mortgage completed and MB had begun work. In the 
circumstances, I cant hold Halifax responsible for any additional costs Ms H is now facing in 
relation to getting the work completed by a specialist PRC company. 
I am sympathetic that Ms H hasnt been able to get her deposit back from MB. But ultimately 
it was her decision to instruct MB to begin work in March 2019 knowing (a) that they werent 
specialist PRC builders and (b) she knew in January 2019 that she needed to instruct a PRC 
engineer to oversee the repairs before work began.As far as stage payments are concerned, Im satisfied that Halifax was mistaken in its final 
response in saying these werent allowed. I accept what Ms H says  that she was told in 
October 2018 that stage payments could be made to her builders. This was not incorrect, 
they were allowed in Ms Hs case, but subject to her providing PRC engineers reports for 
each stage of the work. As Mr G had explained to Ms H on 15 March 2019, the cost of 
carrying out interim inspections and issuing certificates would be about £6,000. I appreciate 
Ms H hadnt budgeted for this additional cost, but after taking everything into account I cant 
hold Halifax responsible for Ms Hs decision to instruct MB to begin work before shed 
established this.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms H was hoping for, and Im sorry if my decision adds to her 
distress. But after taking careful note of whats happened, Im unable to find that Halifax has 
acted incorrectly. 
I note Halifax paid £500 compensation for telling Ms H that it had made a mistake when it 
had told her it could release stage payments. As Ive said above (and as Halifax has since 
noted), this was incorrect and stage payments were allowed. But as Ive not upheld any part 
of the complaint, I can see no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order Halifax 
to pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman