DRN-3522649
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Mobile Money Limited (MML) was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for him.
What happened
MML provided Mr Z with a loan of £2,300 in June 2019. The total amount of £4,815, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £268 (all 
figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr Z provided 
MML with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if he didnt make his loan repayments 
MML could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of his vehicle.
I understand Mr Z didnt manage to meet his repayments from the onset and fell into 
arrears. He paid various amounts over two years, repaying £5,078 in total. He made his 
last payment in June 2021, leaving a balance of £362.
Mr Z said that MML shouldnt have agreed to lend to him given his chequered credit 
history. He says the loan was unaffordable and he was unable to keep up with the 
repayments, which has impacted negatively on his credit file.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Zs complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld. They found that MML didnt carry out proportionate checks before lending to 
Mr Z and such checks would likely have revealed that the loan would be unaffordable for 
him. They recommended that MML refunds any interest and charges that Mr Z paid 
above the principal he borrowed, and that it removes any adverse information about this 
loan from his credit file.
MML didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. The complaint came to me and I issued a provisional 
decision on 13 May 2022 explaining to both parties why I didnt think Mr Zs complaint 
should be upheld. Mr Z didnt agree with my findings and asked for copies of the 
information Id relied on in making my  provisional decision. These were sent to him, 
including a record of the affordablility assessment MML carried out and a copy  of the 
credit file information it obtained at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z made a number of points in response to my provisional findings. In summary, he 
said that MMLs record of his income and expenditure contained inaccuracies and 
inconsistencies, and there was evidence of financial difficulty on his credit file report. 
Mr Z says that this shows MML didnt carry out a proportionate check of his 
circumstances before lending to him. 
I want to reassure Mr Z that I have carefully considered everything hes said and 
reviewed my provisional conclusions in the light of his response. Having done so, I 
remain of the view that MMLs checks were proportionate on this occasion and it wasnt 
irresponsible when it agreed to lend to him. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr Z and I will set out again my reasons for not upholding his complaint and address 
his additional points where relevant.
As Id said in my provisional decision, MML will be aware of the rules and regulations, so 
I will summarise its obligations. MML needed to check that Mr Z could afford to meet his 
repayments out of his usual means without having to borrow further, without missing any 
of his existing obligations and without experiencing significant adverse impacts. MML 
was required to take reasonable steps to estimate Mr Zs income and (non-
discretionary) expenditure and to estimate any reductions in income where it was 
reasonably foreseeable that a reduction was likely.
MML also needed to have regard to any information of which it was aware at the time 
that might have indicated that Mr Z was in, had recently experienced or was likely to 
experience, financial difficulties.
The overarching requirement was that MML needed to pay due regard to Mr Zs 
interests and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this 
requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are 
unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason.
MML says that Mr Z was taken through an in-depth income and expenditure assessment 
over the telephone before the loan was approved but hasnt been able to provide the call 
recording. It has provided a record of its assessment, along with a copy of Mr Zs 
payslips and his credit file obtained at the time.
In my provisional decision I said the following about the assessment MML carried out:
Mr Z gave his net monthly income as £2,305 and his monthly expenses as £2,054 
including the loan repayment. Mr Zs payslips confirmed his income and MML estimated 
that he would have a monthly surplus of £136. His recorded expenses include £250 of 
monthly savings and £200 of expected costs for rent and board when Mr Z moved back 
in with his parents. The assessment doesnt record what Mr Zs existing costs were for 
his rent and hes told us it came to about £900 a month. However Mr Z also confirmed 
with us that the figure of £200 was correct, that he moved back in with his parents when 
his tenancy ended in July 2019 so Ive assumed this accounted for his rent and board 
during the loan term.
Mr Zs credit file from the time shows that he had about £6,000 of existing debt 
comprising an overdraft of £4,245 (down from almost £8,000 taken out in 
February/March 2019), an overdraft of £967 (with an account started in March 2019), a 
utility bill of about £300 and an unsecured loan of £547. There was no adverse 
information recorded, though I did note
Mr Zs recent increase in debt and that he seemed to have some recently cleared 
balances including a loan balance of over £7,800 in March 2019. It seems MML saw this 
also as the assessment notes say that Mr Z had taken on a recent overdraft to help his 
partner with her business costs.
Bearing in mind that Mr Z could potentially lose his car if he was unable to meet his 
repayments over the loan term, I think MML was right to ask Mr Z to verify the information he provided. I think it took reasonable steps to verify his income and 
understand his existing credit commitments. The affordability assessment shows MML 
increased some costs to reflect its guidelines and considered that Mr Z shared the 
household bills of £171 with his partner. As mentioned above it seems MML queried 
some of Mr Zs costs and noted that his circumstances were changing, though I havent 
seen anything which suggests his costs would increase.
From the information Ive seen I think that the loan repayments would have appeared 
affordable for Mr Z and they were not so high relative to his income that there was a 
clear risk he wouldnt be able to meet them over the loan term while meeting his other 
commitments. In addition, there werent clear indicators of financial difficulty in the 
information MML had. Taking everything into account, I have come to the provisional 
conclusion that the checks MML carried out on this occasion were proportionate and 
there wasnt enough of concern in the information it gathered which should have 
prompted it to make further enquiries of Mr Z before lending to him.
In response to my provisional decsion, Mr Z said that it had not been proven that MML 
carried out reasonable or proportionate checks on his creditworthiness or whether or not he 
could afford to meet the loan repayments. For example, Mr Z says that MMLs assessment 
recorded the total household income as more than his income, which he confirmed as being 
about £26,000 net a year. While there is a figure for the total household income, I can see 
that MML based the assessment on Mr Zs net income alone. Mr Z also says that MML didnt 
ask him whether his income was anticipated to change in the future. However, the payslips 
hed provided at the time didnt show that his income fluctuated or that it wasnt a guaranteed 
amount so in this case I dont think it was reasonably foreseeable that there was likely to be 
a reduction in his income. 
Mr Z says that MML should not have taken into account that his rent was about to decrease 
because it was not a given that he would move into his parents property and so pay less 
rent. The regulations state that a business can only take into account an expected future 
decrease in non-discretionary expenditure where it reasonably believes on the basis of 
appropriate evidence that the decrease is likely to happen during the term of the agreement. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, MML hadnt taken Mr Zs existing rent costs into 
account however, he confirmed with us that these costs did in fact reduce the month after 
the loan was taken out as he moved back into his parents property. So, even if MML had 
looked into this point in more detail, I dont think it would have learnt that Mr Zs rental costs 
would render the loan unaffordable. 
Mr Z says that MML estimated that his net surplus each month would be about £136 and 
that this wasnt a reasonable amount to be left with. Id noted the estimated surplus amount 
and checked that this was the amount left over after Mr Z had met his MML loan payment 
each month. Id also noted that Mr Z said at the time that he saved £250 a month which 
MML included as a usual monthly cost. So I think it would have seemed to MML that Mr Z 
had potentially more than £136 surplus each month, although he has since told us that that 
he hadnt in fact been saving money at that time.  
Mr Z also told us that the bills were not shared with his partner as she was on a low income 
and that other monthly costs he had, such as child support of £160 and nursery fees of 
£500, were not included. The regulations state that a business must not accept an 
application for credit where it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer 
has not been truthful in completing the application. Its not unusual or implausible that Mr Z 
shared some household costs with a cohabiting partner and it seems from the assessment 
record that these were discussed in some detail with him. The assessment record includes 
questions about child costs such as nursery costs and maintenance payments but records these as zero and Mr Zs application states he had no dependents, so I dont think MML had 
any cause to suspect that Mr Z had such costs when he made his application. 
Finally, Mr Z says that his credit file showed missed payments on recent loans and that hed 
taken out large amounts on overdraft facilities. As Id said in my provisional decision Mr Z 
explained to MML that hed taken out an overdraft for home improvements and to help his 
partner with business costs. And while there are late payments on some of his accounts, 
these were on accounts which had been settled at least six months prior to taking out this 
loan. Altogether, I dont think the amount or management of Mr Zs existing accounts would 
have caused concern for MML to the extent that it should have declined to lend to him or 
carried out further investigation before doing so. 
Mr Z has explained to us that he gambled at the time and misappropriated funds in order to 
do so. I can see from Mr Zs credit file that he had several active bank accounts and hes 
provided statements for some of these. Had MML looked for more information about Mr Zs 
circumstances, for example had it asked him for bank statements, I think its likely that 
whichever bank statement he provided would have shown large balance variations (from an 
overdraft of £8,000 to a surplus of £63,000) in the preceding weeks and months. Three of 
the bank accounts show large amounts (several thousands) spent on gambling on many 
occasions. However, as Ive explained above, I dont think that MML should have looked into 
his circumstances further before lending to him or that it was irresponsible to have agreed to 
lend to him on the basis of the information it had. 
Mr Z told us that he lost his job in late 2019. I can see from the loan account that he hasnt 
managed to meet his agreed repayments and that a, relatively small, balance remains 
outstanding. Id remind MML about its obligation to treat Mr Z fairly and with due 
consideration and forebearance. Given it is now aware of Mr Zs circumstances when it 
agreed to lend to him, it could consider, for example, waiving the outstanding balance on this 
account if he is experiencing financial difficulty at this time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint about Mobile Money 
Limited and so dont require it to pay him any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman