DRN-3470502
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt return a transfer that hed made to a 
Barclays account by mistake.
What happened
Mr I made a rent payment of £875 to his landlords Barclays account. However, he later 
realised hed transferred the money to his landlords old Barclays account by mistake. Mr I 
contacted his own bank and asked them to recover the money for him, but they were unable 
to do so. Mr I then contacted Barclays and asked them to recover the money on his behalf, 
but they wouldnt proceed with his request. Mr I wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Is complaint, but they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr I in 
how they managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr I wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Mr I in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold Mr Is complaint.
Mr I remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have explained that when Mr I contacted them to request the recovery of the 
transferred funds that they asked Mr I to provide the details of the transaction as well as the 
recall code that Mr Is own bank had given to him following the unsuccessful attempt hed 
made at recovering the funds with them. This was because the correct process was for Mr I 
to try to recover the money through his own bank first, and the recall code provided evidence 
of this.
Unfortunately, Mr I didnt have the letter from his bank which contained that information 
available to him when he spoke to Barclays. This meant Barclays couldnt move forwards 
with Mr Is request, because they hadnt been provided with sufficient evidence by Mr I that 
hed already attempted to recover the money through his own bank, as was required.
Im aware that Mr I feels that Barclays should have been able to find the transaction on the 
basis of the information that he did give them, and that they should have proceeded without 
the need to the recall code from his own bank to be provided. 
I can appreciate Mr Is position here, but it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a 
business to change its processes, but only to assess whether the application of these 
processes has led to an unfair outcome in a specific instance. And, in this instance, given 
the one purpose of Barclays requirement for a recall code is to help protect against potential 
illegitimate recovery claims, I dont feel that Barclays not proceeding with Mr Is request 
without the recall code from his own bank has led to an unfair outcome here.
Mr I has subsequently provided the recall code to this service, which has then been passed 
on to Barclays to enable them to attempt to recover the funds for Mr I. But unfortunately, 
Barclays have confirmed that theyre still unable to recover the money as Mr I would like, as 
the account owner has disputed the recall claim.
Barclays have therefore confirmed that should Mr I wish to pursue this matter, he should 
discuss his options with his bank, as its his banks responsibility to make Mr I aware of any 
further options that may be available to him.
All of this seems fair to me. Ultimately, the money was paid to the incorrect account by Mr I, 
and Barclays obligations here are to follow their process to attempt to recover the money for 
Mr I, should it be possible to do so, and so long as the necessary information to allow the 
process to be followed is provided to them by Mr I.
But Mr I couldnt provide the necessary information at first and having done so it hasnt been 
possible for Barclays to recover the money as Mr I would like. And while I can appreciate 
that Mr I might be unhappy at this, I dont feel that it can be reasonably concluded that 
Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr I as Mr I contends.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any 
further action at this time. I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr I was wanting, and I 
hope that hes able to recover the money in question via other means. I also hope that Mr I 
will understand, given what Ive explained here, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman