DRN-1801596
The complaint
Mr L complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly turned down his claim on a travel 
insurance policy after he missed his flight departure.
Mr L also says that AXA took too long to respond to his complaint after his claim was 
declined.
What happened
Mr L says on the day of his flight he left where he was staying at approximately 4.35pm to go 
to the airport. His flight had been scheduled for 8.35pm. The journey should have taken 
approximately 40 minutes, but Mr L was delayed in traffic and missed his flight.
As a result, Mr L booked accommodation and another flight. The total additional expenses 
incurred by Mr L were around £600. 
Mr L contacted AXA to make a claim on his insurance policy. He also provided a photo as 
evidence of a traffic jam that caused the delay. In summary, AXA declined his claim as 
theyve said the circumstances of this claim - being stuck in traffic, wasnt an insured event 
covered by this policy. They gave an example of being involved in a road accident as an 
event that may have been covered by the policy. 
AXA referred to the relevant terms for the situation Mr L has tried to claim for under the what 
is covered section of the policy:
Arriving too late (as shown on Your ticket) to board Your booked transport at Your last 
departure point from the UK or Your last departure point for Your return to the UK as a result 
of:
a.Public Transport services failing to get You to Your departure point due to 
strike, industrial action, adverse weather conditions, mechanical failure or 
direct involvement in an Accident; or
b.the private motor vehicle in which You are travelling being directly involved in 
an Accident or breaking down.
 
Mr L was unhappy with the declined claim and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator found that AXA had fairly declined this claim. She couldnt find evidence of a 
traffic accident causing the delays that Mr L experienced on that date in the area he was 
travelling. But she also said that unless Mr L was directly involved in any accident then he 
wasnt covered under this policy. 
Our investigator did suggest that a major sports event happening in the surrounding area 
may have contributed to the delays experienced by Mr L  possibly because of road 
closures.
Mr L remained unhappy. In particular, he feels that AXA have relied on an unfair clause 
when declining his claim. The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When coming to my decision, my key considerations are:
did AXA fairly decline the claim, inline with the policy terms; and
has AXA treated Mr L fairly and reasonably?
 
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I know that this will disappoint Mr L, but I 
agree with our investigators findings that this policy didnt cover missed departures caused 
by the type of situation Mr L experienced. Ill explain my reasoning in further detail below.
Mr L has confirmed that he was caught up in a traffic jam, but not directly involved in an 
accident and as a result missed his flight as the expected journey of 40 mins took over 4 
hours to complete. Mr L has my sympathy, as it does seem that he did allow a reasonable 
amount of time to get to the airport. 
But these types of travel insurance policies wont cover every single eventuality, and in this 
case AXA have correctly and fairly declined Mr Ls claim - in line with the policy terms. The 
policy doesnt cover the situation that Mr L has tried to claim for. 
Although Mr L feels otherwise, the terms that AXA are relying on to decline the claim arent 
particularly unusual in this type of travel insurance policy. Its also not within the remit of our 
service to tell businesses how to word their policy terms.
Specifically, on Mr Ls point about what the purpose of travel insurance is if he couldnt make 
a claim on it - this policy was included as part of a package of benefits linked to a bank 
account. The travel insurance element covered against a range of scenarios. Its unfortunate 
that in this case Mr L couldnt make a successful claim. But, as Ive already found, AXA fairly 
declined his claim in line with the relevant policy terms.
Mr L has also raised a point about the time AXA took to investigate his complaint. Ive noted 
that the letter of acknowledgement was sent on 22 July 2019 stating that Mr L would receive 
a response within 8 weeks. AXA told Mr L on 3 September 2019 that he could refer his 
complaint to our service. Mr L chose to wait until October to do so. As Mr L has exercised his 
right to refer his complaint to our service, I make no finding in relation to this point.
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman