DRN-4406645
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the delays to its payment  and additional errors - that James Hay 
Administration Company Ltd T/A James Hay partnership made during the course of 
switching her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) into flexi access drawdown and making 
the tax free cash (TFC) payment she had requested.  
What happened
Mrs P was one of two members of a group SIPP held with James Hay. The SIPP, among 
other assets, held two commercial properties. 
Mrs P wanted to draw her TFC, so on 1 March 2022 her adviser completed a benefits 
payment form which it sent to James Hay. This form was required where benefits were being 
taken from the SIPP through TFC and income drawdown  using an adviser.
Mrs P declared that she had previously drawn benefits to the value of 8.76% of the lifetime 
allowance (LTA). She requested maximum TFC  to be drawn across all the SIPP assets - 
and no income. 
James Hay contacted Mrs P several days later and said it would need to obtain a current 
valuation of the commercial properties in order to comply with her request. This was 
provided to James Hay on 6 April 2022.
On 26 April 2022 James Hay wrote to Mrs P to confirm the maximum pension that was 
available from the SIPP in accordance with capped drawdown rules - following the 11 March 
valuation of the two properties, was £709,018.64.
James Hay then needed to establish the split of TFC between the two group members, but 
it failed to contact Mrs P or the other member for confirmation. So it waived that requirement 
(until after the payment) and, on 27 May 2022 paid the TFC of £51,268.87 into the bank 
account that was set out in the benefit payment form. However this wasnt the bank account 
that needed to be used in this case as the adviser had provided updated account details in a 
new form that was sent on 5 May 2022. 
On 27 May 2022 Mrs Ps adviser complained about the delays that James Hay had caused 
and also about the errors it had made during the process. It said it had spent numerous 
hours chasing up James Hay to get it to carry out the required actions for paying the TFC 
and to find out what its further requirements were. 
On 24 June 2022 James Hay responded. It said that following receipt of the request for the 
maximum TFC it wrote to Mrs P two days later explaining that it couldnt pay the benefit until 
the properties held by the SIPP were valued. It said it received the valuations on 6 April but 
didnt send the necessary letter to Mrs P until 25 April 2022  which it conceded should have 
been done sooner. It said it then failed to confirm the fund split with Mrs P and the other 
member of the group SIPP but was able to pause its request until after it paid the TFC on 
27 May 2022. It also accepted that it paid those funds into the wrong bank account. James 
Hay said that in recognition of its errors it was prepared to offer £300 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mrs P didnt accept the offer as her adviser said it wasnt adequate compensation for the 
numerous hours (it estimated over 15) for which it had to chase up James Hay. It said the 
whole process was time consuming, costly, painful, frustrating, distressing for us and for 
Mrs P, who was  and still is - suffering from a severe illness. So it brought the complaint to 
us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He made the following points in 
upholding the complaint:
Because of the need to obtain property valuations this transaction and process were 
more complex than a usual payment of TFC from a SIPP. He thought it was 
reasonable for James Hay to complete one requirement before considering its 
position and then requesting further information. He also it was reasonable to 
assume that an adviser would be aware of the requirements in this particular case. 
He thought the process should have begun in earnest on 6 April 2022 when James 
Hay received the property valuations. He thought there was delay of 10 working days 
from that point until James Hay passed the information about the maximum benefits 
available onto Mrs P. 
He thought there was another 10 working day delay from the time James Hay had 
concluded its investigation into the asset split until it paid the TFC to Mrs P.
But as it was unreasonable to expect matters to be dealt with the same day, he 
allowed two working days for each requirement to be dealt with  which meant a total 
delay of 16 working days.
He thought the matter of paying the TFC into the wrong bank account was a genuine 
error but also not entirely James Hays responsibility  but he also noted James Hay 
hadnt been asked to recall the money or pay it in into a different account, so 
concluded no financial loss had been suffered as a result. 
He thought James Hays offer of £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But 
he thought Mrs P should be compensated for the overall 16 working day delay in 
receiving her TFC. So he thought James Hay should pay interest at the rate of 8% 
simple on the TFC for that number of days.
He didnt think the time the adviser had spent chasing up the payment was 
particularly out of the ordinary, but in any case, he wasnt able to consider a claim 
for costs made by Mrs Ps adviser. 
Mrs Ps adviser didnt accept the assessment and said it didnt believe the compensation 
adequately covered the costs it had incurred. It said it could have billed Mrs P for those costs 
so that she incurred a financial loss  which could have allowed us to award further 
compensation. It further explained that its duties and obligations were to Mrs P in this case, 
and it wasnt responsible for correcting or pointing out James Hays errors during the 
process. It said James Hay charged Mrs P for managing and administering her plan  which 
it had clearly failed to do here  so it thought James Hay should refund all the charges and 
fees it had collected from her. 
James Hay accepted the investigators assessment and said it would pay the additional 
interest required  as well as the compensation it had previously offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors. But it noted that no complaint had previously been 
raised about the overall SIPP fees it charged, so it didnt think it should consider refunding 
them to Mrs P.
The adviser said Mrs P didnt agree with the outcome and wanted her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I find I am in agreement with the investigator here. I think James Hay 
needs to compensate Mrs P for the loss of interest on her TFC caused by the delays in 
paying it to her and I think it should pay the compensation it previously offered for the impact 
the matter had on Mrs P during the process. 
Im sorry to learn of Mrs Ps current medical condition and I know she and her adviser will be 
disappointed with this outcome not to award further costs for the time and effort her adviser 
put into chasing James Hay throughout the withdrawal request, and not to award a refund of 
her SIPP related fees as well. So Ill explain my reasons below.
The delays in paying the TFC 
Although Mrs Ps adviser has stated that it believed its request to draw Mrs Ps TFC was 
relatively simply, I dont think it can be disputed that there were two additional requirements 
which I wouldnt have expected to see in the majority of TFC withdrawal requests. And these 
two requirements seem to have been the basis of a claim for the delays that James Hay 
caused to the payment. So Ive looked at those two requirements to see if there were any 
avoidable delays caused. 
I should also say that Mrs P complained that during the process James Hay didnt set out all 
its requirements at once but drip fed them one by one after previous requests were 
satisfied. I can only find one example of this which was the request to evaluate how the 
assets should be spilt in order to pay Mrs Ps TFC, which was only highlighted after the 
valuation was returned. But its not clear to me how James Hay could have asked about the 
split without having received the valuation figures first  so I dont think it caused any delays 
or acted unreasonably by not setting out those requests at the same time. 
Looking at the sequence of events here James Hay says it asked Mrs Ps adviser for a 
valuation of the two properties within the SIPP in January 2022 due to an impending pension 
review. So it said the adviser should have been aware of that request when it submitted a 
benefit request form  of which Ive seen copy  on 1 March 2022.  However, Ive also seen 
that within that form, under the section headed if a property is held within the SIPP, it said 
we require a red book valuation, produced in accordance with the relevant sections of the 
current Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors professional standards, or a desktop valuation 
of the property produced between 12 months and 24 months after a red book valuation. A 
desktop valuation is valid for up to 12 months after the date of the last red book valuation. 
James Hay set out that a valuation would be required to pay Mrs Ps TFC, so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for it not to be able to start the process until that was received on 
6 April 2022 and I dont think it caused any delays up to that point. 
But thereafter James Hay accepts that it didnt provide the letter which then set out the 
maximum amounts that could be released from the pension, until 26 April 2022  which it 
agrees was too long. So I think it did cause a delay there which was avoidable.
And following that provision of information, James Hay - appropriately in my view, then had 
to ask the group members to confirm the spilt of the properties which each one held. But it 
didnt carry out that request and when it realised its error it decided to pay the TFC without 
further delay. That was another delay which James Hay caused which was avoidable, 
although I have considered whether it mitigated the delay by not requesting the details of the 
spilt until after payment. However its difficult to work out how long that request would have taken to complete. But in any case, because of the relationship between the members 
James Hay was prepared to obtain that information after the event so it could be argued that 
it could have taken that path earlier anyway.
Ive looked at the length of these delays and I agree with the investigator who decided that 
the total delay was 20 working days which he then reduced by a total of four working days to 
give James Hay a reasonable notional length of time to carry out the actions it should have 
undertaken. So I agree that James Hay needs to compensate Mrs P for any loss that she 
suffered as result of that delay. As this was a withdrawal and not a transfer there wouldnt 
have been any loss for being out of the market, but Mrs P was deprived of the use of her 
TFC for 16 working days. So I think James Hay should pay interest  at the rate of 8% 
simple - for the time she was unable to access her funds.
 
Neither party has disputed the number of days involved in this calculation and, following the 
investigators assessment, James Hay agreed to make this payment in addition to its offer of 
compensation.
The other errors
The other main error that was referenced here is that James Hay failed to pick up the 
different bank account details that were provided by the adviser within a revised benefit 
payment form  although James Hay said the adviser simply provided a new form without 
suggesting the only change was the bank account details. It said had this been highlighted 
as the only difference between the forms it would have picked up the change of details. 
But that isnt to excuse that James Hay should have checked it more carefully as I would 
have expected it to do with any revised form that was provided before payment was made. 
Weve asked for evidence to show the extent of the impact this had on Mrs P, but I havent 
seen anything to support the idea that she suffered any financial loss as a result.  And 
because James Hay has said that it wasnt asked to recall the funds and send them to the 
alternative account, I can only conclude that Mrs P was able to transfer them herself or 
accessed the money from the original account. 
Either way Ive assessed the impact of that error  which I consider to be a genuine mistake 
and not an attempt to delay payment - as part of the overall impact this had on Mrs P. 
Mrs Ps adviser said it spent a lot of time chasing James Hay regarding each step of the 
process, often not being responded to when it made contact. Ive already dealt with the 
advisers assertion that James Hay should have laid out all its outstanding requirements 
together at the beginning of the process, but the adviser has also provided a spreadsheet 
showing a number of its communications to James Hay  in various forms  during this time. 
Its difficult to conclude this was an excessive number of contacts or indeed the reason for 
each individual one, but Im not persuaded that they alone indicate a lack of service from 
James Hay. 
But in any case, James Hay has accepted that it could have done better here, particularly 
with its lack of communication around the two areas that Ive said constituted avoidable 
delays. I dont take lightly the impact this would have had on Mrs P who has a serious 
medical condition, but I think an award of £300 is fair and reasonable when taken overall  
including the error with the bank account  and its within the range of what I would have 
recommended as appropriate in the circumstances. 
Request for a refund of SIPP fees and compensation for the advisers time and efforts
Mrs Ps adviser has provided the spreadsheet I referred to above to support its claim for 
costs to be awarded for the excessive time it spent chasing up James Hay and bringing about the final TFC payment. It said the whole process was time consuming and costly. But 
as the investigator had previously explained this is Mrs Ps complaint, which the adviser has 
simply brought on her behalf. The adviser isnt an eligible complainant here and so it 
wouldnt be fair to award it any costs on that basis as we wouldnt usually award third party 
costs. 
The adviser also said that because James Hay hadnt provided appropriate levels of service, 
management, or administration of Mrs Ps plan it should refund the total SIPP costs charged 
to the plan. But the SIPP fees are applied for a whole range of tasks and administration that 
James Hay has to carry out for Mrs Ps SIPP, and Ive seen no evidence to support the idea 
James hay hasnt managed the plan overall in accordance with its terms and conditions.
Indeed James Hay has accepted it could have acted quicker regarding aspects of this TFC 
payment  for which it has agreed to pay compensation, but ultimately it did still complete 
the request that was asked of it, and which would have been part of its duties with regards to 
the SIPP fees. Ive seen nothing to support the claim that James Hay should refund all the 
relevant SIPP charges.
Our role is to consider an individual complaint and put right any financial loss that a 
consumer may have suffered as a result of a businesss actions, or award appropriate 
compensation for any impact its errors may have had. In this case Im satisfied that the 
determination set out below does that and isnt unduly punitive towards James Hay - which 
isnt something our role generally encompasses. 
Putting things right
James Hay has made an offer to pay £300 for the impact its errors had on Mrs P which I 
believe is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, so James Hay should pay £300.
In addition James Hay should pay interest on the TFC payment, at the rate of 8% simple, for 
the 16 working days that Mrs P was unnecessarily deprived of her TFC.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mrs Ps complaint against James Hay Administration 
Company Ltd T/A James Hay partnership. James Hay should pay compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman