DRN-2878170
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt inform her of the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) temporary high balance cover.
What happened
In June 2020 more than £180,000 was deposited into Mrs Cs Nationwide current account 
after Mrs C sold a property. Mrs C wanted to ensure that her money was protected by the 
FSCS. 
The FSCS compensates people if they hold up to £85,000 in an account with a UK 
authorised bank, building society, or credit union, and that bank, building society, or credit 
union fails.
The FSCS also protects temporary high balances of up to £1m in consumers accounts for 
six months. The FSCS says it cant confirm the eligibility of a temporary high balance until 
the relevant bank, building society, or credit union fails. However, certain life events such as 
a real estate transaction could cause a temporary high balance in a consumers account. 
Mrs C has told us she was worried that she had more than £85,000 in her Nationwide 
account, so she transferred money into various accounts after 10 June 2020. By the end of 
August 2020 Mrs C says shed reduced the amount of money in her Nationwide current 
account to nearly £27,000.
Mrs C began transferring money back into her Nationwide current account later that year. By 
the end of October 2020, she had around £109,000 in the account. Mrs C once again 
worried she had more than £85,000 across her Nationwide accounts.
On 10 November 2020, Mrs C visited her local Nationwide branch to pick up a cheque for 
£100,000. She wanted to deposit it into an account with a bank (Bank B) so she would 
have no more than £85,000 deposited with Nationwide. Mrs B says the Nationwide cashier 
that served her said she was doing the right thing as that money would only be protected by 
the FSCS for another month.
Mrs C says that when she told the cashier at Bank B the reason for withdrawing the 
£100,000, the cashier told her about the extension to the FSCSs temporary high balance 
cover. That refers to the FSCS decision to protect deposits of up to £1m from six to 12 
months for deposit-taker failures occurring from 6 August 2020.  
Mrs C says the Bank B cashier went on to say that Bank B advised customers against 
leaving large sums of money in current accounts. It recommended that customers moved 
large amounts of money into savings accounts to better protect against fraud. Bank B said 
its systems would have flagged this, and it was surprised Nationwide hadnt offered Mrs C 
the same advice. The cashier also said that Mrs C couldve been earning interest on her 
money during this time (if shed moved her money into an interest-bearing savings account) 
and that it would always contact their customers in circumstances such as hers.
Mrs C returned her cheque to Nationwide and complained that she hadnt been given similar 
advice. She spoke to the branch manager who confirmed the extension of the FSCS 
temporary high balance cover after looking it up on the internet in front of her. Mrs C says 
the branch manager told her said Nationwide didnt tell her about the extension to the FSCS 
temporary high balance cover because her staff werent aware of it at the time. 
Mrs C wasnt satisfied by this and took her complaint further. 
In its final response Nationwide apologised and accepted its mistake in not informing Mrs C 
about the extension of the FSCS temporary high balance cover. It said the relevant branch 
manager had addressed the issue with the branch staff, and that the branch manager was 
confident that one of her team wouldve had a conversation with Mrs C about her balance 
when she had a mortgage appointment in July 2020. Mrs C says this didnt happen. 
Nationwide didnt think its staff made a mistake when it didnt advise Mrs C to transfer 
money from her current account to her savings account as it thought its current accounts 
were secure.
Nationwide also told us that information about the FSCS was available to Mrs C on its 
website, and that its branch staff arent in a position to offer financial advice. So they 
wouldnt be expected to advise members about how they manage their money. 
Mrs C remained unhappy and complained to our service. She wanted Nationwide to pay her 
the interest she feels she missed out on between 10 June 2020 and 11 November 2020. 
She also thought Nationwide should compensate her for the incorrect advice she was given 
in branch and the stress and inconvenience caused by what happened.
Mrs C wanted to be reassured too that the relevant Nationwide staff had received adequate 
training and that it had implemented a system for identifying the movement of large sums of 
money, similar to Bank Bs.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She appreciated how annoyed Mrs C was, but she 
didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything more to resolve Mrs Cs complaint. Thats 
because Nationwide had apologised for not telling her about the extension of the FSCS 
temporary high balance cover in November 2020. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs C hadnt lost out financially as a result of Nationwide not 
telling her about the extension of the FSCS temporary high balance cover. She said that 
was because Mrs C became aware of the FSCSs temporary high balance cover in 
November 2020. At that time, the money Mrs C held with Nationwide was covered by the 
FSCSs usual six-month temporary high balance cover and had been since June 2020. Once 
Mrs C became aware of the extension to the FSCS temporary high balance cover she was 
able to keep her money with Nationwide knowing that the money was protected until it was 
required in February 2021. 
Mrs C disagreed. She said that if shed known about the FSCS cover she wouldve put all 
her money in her interest paying Nationwide savings account and wouldnt have made so 
many trips to Nationwide to move her money. She said shed made numerous trips into 
branch between June and November 2020 to transfer her money and was clear with branch 
staff why she was acting the way she was, but no one ever had a conversation with her 
about the FSCS cover.
Our investigator appreciated Mrs Cs strength of feeling, but she accepted Nationwides 
position that its branch staff arent in a position to offer financial advice. So she understood 
why it wasnt willing to offer Mrs C compensation for this. She said that Mrs C took the 
decision to begin transferring money from her Nationwide accounts from 10 June 2020. So 
our investigator didnt think it was fair to hold Nationwide accountable for this.Our investigator also appreciated that Mrs C has told us that she was worried after her 
conversation with Bank B. However, she wasnt persuaded that Mrs Cs money would have 
be safer in a savings account. 
Finally our investigator said that our service isnt a regulator, so it wouldnt be appropriate for 
us to require Nationwide to alter how they present their products or to alter its systems.
 
Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think that Nationwide needs to do more to resolve this dispute either. 
Ill explain why.
Mrs C has told us that she was very anxious to ensure that her money was protected, so she 
made numerous transfers to juggle money between different accounts between June and 
November 2020. I can see that much of this was done online and that Mrs C started to move 
her money around from June 2020.
 
Mrs C has told us that she visited her local Nationwide branch during this period and was 
open about why she was moving her money. As she now knows all her money was 
protected while it was with Nationwide (because of the FSCS temporary high balance cover) 
she is very frustrated about the time and effort she went to move her money in this period. 
She thinks Nationwide shouldve done more for her, especially as she says she was open 
about why she was moving her money around. Mrs C has told us that if shed known that all 
her money was protected while it was with Nationwide, she wouldve put all off it into her 
Nationwide savings account to earn interest. So she feels Nationwide should reimburse her 
for that lost interest.
I dont underestimate Mrs Cs strength of feeling about what happened. However, its unclear 
to me exactly what was said by Mrs C to Nationwide in this period. Mrs C has only been 
specific about what was said during her November 2020 visit, and Nationwides notes of 
Mrs Cs contact with it dont mention the issues discussed above being raised. In the 
circumstances it isnt clear to me that Nationwide made mistakes that it should compensate 
Mrs C for. Like our investigator, Im conscious that Mrs C acted herself to move her money 
around during this period. I wouldnt expect Nationwides branch staff to give Mrs C financial 
advice  despite what she was told by Bank B.
 
However, theres no dispute that Nationwide made a mistake in November 2020 when it 
didnt tell Mrs C about the extension of the FSCS temporary high balance cover. 
Mrs C wants to be compensated for that, but I dont think that would fair and reasonable. I 
say that because Nationwide has apologised for what happened. Im also conscious that 
Mrs Cs money was already protected by the FSCS temporary high balance cover when this 
mistake happened in November 2020. Although a £100,000 cheque was issued at this time, 
Mrs C was able to ensure it was destroyed. She was in a position to transfer her money into 
an interest-bearing account after she spoke to Bank B and identified Nationwides mistake.
Mrs C has said I should protect consumers and hold Nationwide responsible for its mistake. 
But Im not Nationwides regulator, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to punish Nationwide 
for its mistakes. My role is simply to try to resolve this dispute in a fair and reasonable way.I also think its worth bearing in mind that the FSCS didnt announce its decision to extend its 
temporary high balance cover from six months to 12 months until early August 2020, and 
that the changes to the FSCS cover didnt come in effect until 6 August 2020. So I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that Nationwide shouldve told Mrs C 
about the extension of the FSCSs temporary high balance cover until August 2020.
 
Nationwides notes of its contact with Mrs C show that Mrs C went into branch on 4 August 
2020 but had no more contact with Nationwide until she went in to withdraw the cheque in 
November 2020. Its not clear what was said in August 2020, and Im conscious that the 
change to the FSCS cover had only just been announced and hadnt come into force yet. So 
Im not persuaded Nationwide shouldve told Mrs C about the change to the FSCS cover at 
that visit. It follows that I dont think Nationwide is responsible for Mrs C not moving her 
money into her interest-bearing account between August and November 2020 as she has 
suggested.
For completeness I shall now cover some of the other points Mrs C has raised in her 
complaint. Mrs C says she wants reassurance that the relevant Nationwide staff had 
received adequate training. I can see that the branch manager has said she has discussed 
this matter with the relevant staff, so Im satisfied this has been addressed.
  
Mrs C has also said that she thinks Nationwide should implement a system for identifying the 
movement of large sums of money, similar to Bank Bs. As our investigator said, our service 
doesnt regulate Nationwide, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make such a finding in 
my decision.
I appreciate that Mrs C is likely to be disappointed by this decision. However, for the reasons 
set out above, I dont think Nationwide needs to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman