DRN-3729725
The complaint
Ms P and Mr V complain that Society of Lloyds (through its underwriter) failed to provide 
them with assistance for their commercial policy claim under their Claims Assist policy. 
Although the claim was made to the underwriter of the policy, for convenience Ill refer to 
Lloyds throughout.
What happened
Ms P and Mr V are the owners of two flats rented out under a commercial policy. In June 
2020 the flats were damaged by a storm, Ms P and Mr V duly reported the claim to their 
broker, M, who reported a claim to the Commercial policy insurer, who insured the building, 
N. At the same time Ms P and Mr V had the Claims Assist policy which they might have 
been able to use to help with the claim. They say that they assumed that the details of the 
claim would be notified to Lloyds at the same time. 
The commercial claim progressed and in November 2020 N carried out a claims assessment 
resulting in a pay-out of just over £24,000, £18,000 of which was paid to Ms P and Mr Vs 
contractor. Ms P and Mr V required assistance under the policy saying firstly that they had 
needed assistance in presenting their claim and subsequently asserting that the pay-out was 
considerably short of what they required. M first referred the claim to Lloyds, and Lloyds 
confirmed it received it, in April 2021. Lloyds said that it had been notified the claim was 
settled so its loss adjusters assistance wasnt required. But in any event it said the policy 
only provided cover for claims with a value greater than £5,000 but not in excess of £25,000. 
As at the time the claim was notified to Lloyds it was going to exceed £25,000 there was no 
cover under the Claims Assist policy.
Ms P and Mr V said that at the time the claim to Lloyds should have been made, the claim 
under the commercial policy wasnt going to exceed £25,000. It was only the delays in 
getting the claim settled that pushed the claim up over the limit, because of the extended 
loss of rent. Ms P and Mr V said that had M reported the correct claim at the time they could 
have benefitted from the policy. Lloyds had confirmed that if a claim is accepted, then goes 
over the limit in the policy then the appointed loss adjuster could continue working on the 
case for payment of an additional fee. 
Ms P and Mr V further said that as the loss adjuster Lloyds would have appointed under the 
policy is part of Ms company, there was an implied referral in any event.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that he couldnt 
reasonably say Lloyds was at fault for being notified late. He was also persuaded that
once Lloyds was notified, it was clear the claim cost was going to exceed Lloyds cover
limit. So, in the circumstances he wouldnt have expected Lloyds to accept the claim.
Ms P and Mr V didnt accept the view, and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
Ombudsman.
So the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has made substantial representations. I confirm that I have considered those 
representations in full. However we are an alternative dispute resolution service. Our 
function is to try to resolve complaints informally. As such, whilst taking account of the law, 
best practice and any relevant regulations and the evidence from both parties I will not be 
issuing a detailed point by point decision. I will however highlight what appears to me to be 
the relevant points.
In this decision, Im only considering the complaint about Lloyds in respect of the Claims 
Assist policy. I understand that Ms P and Mr V have also made complaints about their broker 
and the commercial policy insurer. The latter has already been dealt with and an 
Ombudsmans decision has been issued. The broker complaint will be allocated to me to 
consider, but separately.
From my review of the evidence I think it most likely that M only referred the claim to Lloyds 
on or about 29 April 2021. The evidence for this is a claim notification sheet. Whilst I note 
Mr Vs doubts as to its authenticity, the surrounding circumstances satisfy me that this was 
an accurate date. I say that not least as the internal emails on Ms system appear to 
recognise that it made an error.
Mr V says that the notification to Lloyds should be deemed to have been made earlier. First 
of all he says they complied with the terms of the policy by notifying M in June 2020. The 
notification to Lloyds can be made by a broker. Im aware that no fault lies with 
Ms P and Mr V in this respect  they had a right to expect that the necessary claim would be 
made both to Lloyds and to N. But I dont think the claim can be deemed to have been made 
to Lloyds when the evidence shows that M clearly did not make the claim at that time. And I 
dont consider that M is an agent of Lloyds. So a referral to M is not a referral to Lloyds.
Mr V further says that the claims handling agent/loss adjuster that would be appointed by 
Lloyds under the policy (H) is an affiliate owned by M. So he thinks that Lloyds would have 
been aware of the claim through its agent. And there was a conflict of interest suggesting 
that H and M were in collusion in damaging Ms P and Mr Vs interests.
I dont think that Hs relationship with M had any bearing here. There was no active 
involvement by H in dealing with the claim including at any point before Lloyds was formally 
notified by M in April 2021.. Nor have I seen any evidence of collusion between H and M to 
harm Ms P and Mr V interests.
I turn now to the reasons for Lloyds declining to deal with the claim. First of all I think that if a 
claim had been made to Lloyds at the outset of Ms P and Mr Vs commercial claim it would, 
in theory have been able to assist with the claim as at that stage the claim would have been 
within the policy limits on the Claim Assist policy.
Lloyds firstly said that the claim was settled so its loss adjusters assistance wasnt required. 
From the point of view of the repairs I think that was right  the repairs to the two flats were 
completed respectively in March and April 2021. However the full claim itself hadnt been 
settled. Ms P and Mr V still had substantive claims to make concerning outstanding loss of 
rent, repair costs which N had said were maintenance issues and payment of interest. 
As to whether Ms P and Mr V would have been able to avail themselves of the policy to deal 
with those issues, H has said it would not have got involved in the issues that were outstanding. I wont make a finding on that here as it appears to me to be a matter that 
should be dealt with in the complaint against M.
Secondly Lloyds has said at the time the claim was reported to it, it was already in excess of 
£25,000. I understand there was an argument as to whether Ms P and Mr V had bought a 
more substantive policy, but I think the terms I have seen are clear and apply to this case. 
The policy says: 
[..] Claims Assist provides and pays for the services of an independent, Expert Loss 
Adjuster to help you in the preparation, negotiation and settlement of your insurance claims, 
with a value greater than GBP5,000 but not in excess of GBP25,000.
I think at the time the claim was made to Lloyds for assistance under its policy, it was in 
excess of £25,000. The settlement for repairs was just over £24,000 and Ms P and Mr V had 
substantive claims to make in respect of other matters which took the claim to well over 
£25,000.
Im aware that if a claim had been made at the outset and accepted but had then 
subsequently exceeded the claims limit H may have been prepared to continue working with 
the claim on payment of a further fee. And although the policy doesnt specify whether it is 
the claim at the time of notification or the claim at the outset of the substantive commercial 
claim, I think realistically it was fair of Lloyds to decline the claim as it was in excess of the 
policy terms. And the intention of the policy is to provide help with a claim within clearly 
defined limits.
So I think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim under its policy. I dont 
think it was at fault in that respect. Thats not to say that M wasnt at fault in failing to make 
the claim at the right time. But I think that any issues as to what H could have assisted with 
had this happened should be dealt with as part of the complaint about M.
Lastly Ive noted that Ms P and Mr V had issues with Lloyds about the premium for the 
renewal of the policy. This hasnt been dealt with as a complaint  if they have any issues 
about the premium they should raise these first of all with the underwriter and/or M.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman