DRN-2551383
The complaint
Miss A complains that a car she obtained via a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited trading as Black Horse Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2018 Miss A acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. The car was around three years old and had a mileage of 24,500.
Within 48 hours of Miss A acquiring the car it developed a fault with its clutch. The 
dealer fitted a new clutch kit at no cost to Miss A and the car was returned.
In December 2018 the car overheated, and Miss A said she could hear unusual noises. 
She took it back to the dealer. The dealer replaced the top mount and water pump before 
returning the car to Miss A.
The car had its annual service in January 2019 and an oil filter was changed. And in 
February 2019 Miss A says she heard noises coming from the car but says she was 
advised that this was a usual noise from a diesel engine. However, Miss A says that over 
time the noise the car was making got worse and she took it back to the dealer in August 
2019.
The dealer says it wasnt able to replicate the noise that Miss A had been complaining 
was present when the car was stationary and/or braking but thought there was a noise 
from the gearbox. It says it advised Miss A to book the car back in for further 
investigation.
Miss A says she decided to take the car to some independent garages for further advice 
about the noises it was making. Miss A says that she was told the noise could be from 
the dual mass flywheel but that as she had a warranty for the car, she should take it back 
to the supplying dealer for investigation as the repair work may be covered by that 
warranty. The car was booked back in with the dealer in September 2019.
The dealer investigated and after stripping the car found that the clutch had broken up 
inside. New parts were required, and the repair was covered by the warranty. The car was 
collected by Miss A following the repairs.
Miss A complained to Black Horse about the condition of the car and it partially upheld 
her complaint. It agreed that as the first repair to the clutch had been required within only 
a few days of Miss A acquiring the car this meant the issue must have been present at 
the point of sale. But it said the second time the car had gone back to the supplying 
dealership in December 2018 it hadnt been able to find any faults with the top mount and 
that the water pump had been replaced under the warranty.
Black Horse said that the second repair to the clutch had been carried out over a year 
later and the car had been driven a further 14,000 miles by then by Miss A. It said there 
was no evidence this second fault with the clutch had been developing since the point of 
sale or was linked to the previous repair.
Black Horse offered Miss A £100 compensation for having to deal with the faulty clutch 
that arisen just after she had acquired the car.
Miss A was unhappy at the view taken by Black Horse. She complained to this service 
and said she had lost confidence with the car as it wasnt the reliable vehicle she had 
thought it would be. Miss A said she wanted to end the agreement and return the car.
Our investigator agreed that the first fault with the clutch would have been present at the 
point of sale and said that the repair had been carried out as he would have expected, 
and Miss A had accepted that repair. The other faults had all been repaired under the 
warranty which was fair and reasonable and again Miss A had accepted them.
Our investigator said he was aware that Miss A had raised another repair that had been 
required in October 2019 when a bracket had snapped but taking into account the length 
of time Miss A had had the car in her possession by then and the number of miles driven 
he didnt think he could reasonably say this fault would have either developing or present 
at the point of sale.
Our investigator said looking at the evidence he thought Black Horse had acted fairly and 
he wasnt going to ask it to do more.
Miss A disagreed with our investigators view. She said the repairs hadnt been free of 
charge as she was paying for the extended warranty that had covered them. Miss A said 
she had had to drive back forth to the garage to have the car repaired causing her 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, but Im not bound by them when I consider whats fair and 
reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss A was a regulated 
consumer credit agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating 
to it. Black Horse was also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about thier quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 theres an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price 
and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of 
the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around three years old and with a mileage of 24,500. I 
thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would expect that 
over time there would be issues with maintenance and repair since components of the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use.
It wasnt disputed that the first fault with the clutch would have, more likely than not, 
been present at the point of sale. This was repaired by the supplying dealer and Miss A 
accepted that repair. So I couldnt say this wasnt fairly dealt with and Black Horse had 
offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenienace this would have 
caused Miss A.
The next issue Miss A had was with the car overheating and making a noise. Miss A 
had the car for about three months at this point and had driven around 3,500 miles. 
The supplying garage said the water pump was replaced as it was a part known to fail 
prematurely. It also said there was no fault found with the top mount but I had seen 
from the job card that this was replaced. I wasnt clear whether these repairs were 
carried out as a precaution but I thought it was more likely a fault was found. And 
although I thought both of these parts were ones which may require repair due to wear, 
I also thought that a reasonable person wouldnt have expected a car of this age and 
mileage to have needed these repairs so soon after the point of sale. I thought it was 
more likely than not that these were issues that were developing at the point of sale. 
So I thought it was fair to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale.
Miss A said she had asked the dealer about rejecting the car at the time of the second 
repairs but was told she had done too many miles. The dealer said it advised her she 
had done too many miles for the cars guarantee to apply. I didnt know what was said 
at that time though I was aware Miss A didnt inform Black Horse that she had wanted 
to reject the car. However, just because there were faults with the car and it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale didnt necessarily mean that was fair for a 
consumer to be entitled to reject it and cancel the agreement. Here the repairs were 
minor, carried out without charge and were accepted by Miss A, they also werent 
linked to the earlier repair to the clutch. So looking at the evidence I didnt think 
rejection of the car was proportionate. However these second repairs had put Miss A to 
inconveinance and affected her confidence in the car. I thought it was fair for Black 
Horse to pay Miss A additonal compensation of £150 to reflect this.
Miss A said the car had begun to make a strange noise in or around February 2019. 
However. the evidence I had seen showed that the car wasnt seen by the dealership 
again until August 2019 when it said it wasnt able to replicate the noise complained of 
by Miss A, which occurred when the car was stationary or braking. The dealership said 
it advised her there might be an issue with the clutch and recommended the car be 
booked back in. Miss A said that she was increasingly concerned about the noise and 
took it to other garages for second opinions. She said she was worried that she was 
driving an unsafe car and was later told it was likely to be the dual mass flywheel. Miss 
A was advised that as she had a warranty for the car, she should go back to the 
dealership for the car to be further investigated.
I wasnt clear on the exact time line of events but it was accepted that a second repair to 
the clutch was required in September 2019 when it was found that the flywheel and clutch 
needed to be replaced. By this time Miss A had used the car for an additional 14,000 
miles in the year following the first repair. Miss A raised whether the flywheel should have 
been replaced during the first repair, but I had to take into account the amount of time that 
had passed and the usage of the car. The clutch is a serviceable item, it wears over time 
and although a clutch may be expected to last longer than a year, it can be affected by 
driving style which will prematurely wear it. I hadnt seen any evidence that the second 
issue with the clutch arose from a fault and I thought it was more likely than not that, if the 
first repair had been faulty, Miss A wouldnt have been able to use the car for as long as she had.
I was aware that a bracket had needed to be repaired in October 2019 but looking at the 
age of the car and its mileage at that time I couldnt reasonably say that fault would have 
been present or developing at the point of sale. I thought it was more likely than not to be 
a maintenance issue that had arisen over time with use of the car.
Miss A had raised an issue about the cars paintwork, however as Black Horse hadnt 
been given an opportunity to investigate that, it was unfair for me to look at that matter. 
Miss A can raise that with Black Horse if she wishes too.
I appreciated Miss A was concerned that the car wasnt as durable as she had expected, 
and she also felt that the repairs hadnt been free of charge as they had been covered by 
the warranty which she had paid for. But not all the repairs were ones which the retailer 
would have been expected to cover such as the second clutch repair, so the extended 
warranty had covered that as well as the bracket repair. So, the warranty had been 
worthwhile for Miss A and I didnt think she has been financially disadvantaged by paying 
for it. I didnt think I could reasonably say Miss A had paid for repairs where the faults 
were either developing or present at the point of sale.
For the reasons given above, I was intending to partially uphold Miss As complaint. I was 
satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A but 
although I appreciated this would be of disappointment to Miss A, I dont think it was fair 
she now rejected the car and cancelled the agreement. I asked Black Horse to pay an 
additional £150 as compensation to Miss A so she received a total amount of £250 to 
reflect the impact of the car needing repairs twice in the first three months following 
inception of the agreement.
I havent been asked to look again at any parts of my provisional decision by either Miss A or 
Black Horse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed my provisional decision and I havent changed my view. Neither of the 
parties have raised anything they think I have missed or have been mistaken about. So for 
the reasons given above Im partially upholding Miss As complaint.
Putting things right
Im Im asking Black Horse Limited to pay an additional £150 compensation to Miss A so 
that she receives a total amount of £250 for having to deal with the faulty car.
 
My final decision
As set out above, Im partially upholding Miss As complaint. Im asking Black Horse Limited 
to pay an additional £150 compensation to Miss A so that she received a total of £250 
compensation for having to deal with the faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 01 March 2021.
 Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman