DRN-3556421
The complaint
Mrs P says Countrywide Assured Plc (Countrywide) mis-sold her a mortgage protection plan 
(MPP). 
What happened
Mrs P says in November 2001 she was told she needed to take out a MPP in order for her 
mortgage application to be approved. Mrs P says she didnt need a MPP as she was buying 
a second home which wouldve been sold in the event of her death. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Mrs P didnt 
agree, saying I signed the declaration that suggested that there was no obligation to take 
the cover but that was in the context of what I was being told at the time and my naivety.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Countrywide had a duty to ensure that any policy recommendation it made was suitable for 
Mrs P given her needs and circumstances.
Ive carefully considered the documentation from the time of the sale. The financial review 
recorded Mrs P was married, had no dependents, and was earning a salary of approximately 
£25,000 per annum. 
Mrs P had some existing cover in place through her employer. This included death in service 
benefit of £100,000. Mrs P also had sick pay through her employer providing full salary for 
six months, followed by 50% of her salary for a further six months. 
Mrs P was looking to borrow £32,000 over a period of 25 years. Mrs Ps mortgage payments 
would be £199 a month. It was recorded that it would be very important that the mortgage 
[was] paid if unable to work. 
After assessing Mrs Ps needs Countrywide recorded that Mrs P had a shortfall of £25,000 
for death benefit, and a shortfall of £62,500 for critical illness cover. The adviser 
recommended two different policies to Mrs P- a MPP (that she is complaining about), costing 
£19.97 a month, and a personal protection plan (PPP) costing £63.70 a month. 
The fact find notes for the benefits recommended recorded:
-Critical Illness benefit- reduced due to the cost
-Income Reduction benefit- Declined- relying on employer provision
-Deferral period- coincide with employers provision
-Death benefit recommended- Declined. Living in flat on own, flat to be sold in the 
event of death
I have seen that Mrs P signed the fact find declaration confirming the information provided 
during the financial review. The statement on the fact find declaration confirmed I 
understand this document places no obligation on me to accept the recommendations. Mrs 
P says although she signed the declaration that suggested that there was no obligation to 
take the cover, this was only done because of what she was being told at the time. 
Ive considered Mrs Ps comments. But on balance I dont agree that the evidence supports 
what Mrs P has said about the MPP being sold as a condition of taking out her mortgage. Ill 
explain why. 
The evidence supports that there was a discussion about Mrs Ps existing level of benefits, 
and what the adviser recommended based on the benefits Mrs P already had. It is evident 
Mrs P rejected parts of the recommendations that she felt she didnt need. 
The adviser recommended a PPP at a cost of £63.70, including income reduction benefit. 
However it was recorded that Mrs P had declined this benefit as she would be relying on 
employer provision. Critical illness cover was recommended for £62,500. But Mrs P elected 
to take out critical illness cover for £32,000 on a decreasing term basis to match her 
repayment mortgage. This indicates Mrs P selected the level of cover that was affordable 
whilst still meeting her needs. 
Mrs P has explained that the property she was buying was a second home. Mrs P says in 
the event of her death, the property wouldve been sold, and therefore there wasnt a need 
for life cover. Ive considered Mrs Ps comments and what was recorded at the time of sale. 
The fact find recorded Death benefit recommended- Declined. Living in flat on own, flat to 
be sold in the event of death. Mrs Ps MPP included £50 life cover but this wasnt a benefit 
Mrs P had paid for. The cover shed selected was limited to critical illness cover for £32,000 
on a decreasing term basis, and the mortgage payment protection benefit of £199 and 
premium protection benefit. 
The fact that Mrs Ps MPP didnt include life cover satisfies me that Mrs Ps needs and 
circumstances were discussed. This includes critical illness cover being set up on a 
decreasing term basis to match Mrs Ps repayment mortgage, and the mortgage payment 
protection benefit matching Mrs Ps monthly mortgage payments. The deferral period for the 
mortgage payment protection benefit and premium protection benefit meant these benefits 
would only start once Mrs Ps employee benefits ceased.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied that recommendation to take out the MPP was suitable 
and in accordance with the objectives the adviser had recorded in the fact find. I recognise 
that Mrs P will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given I dont find that the 
MPP was mis-sold to Mrs P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman