DRN-2227323
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva Life) reclassified his pension
policy having given him the wrong Lifetime Allowance (LTA). This led to him being financially
disadvantaged. 
What happened
In March 2018, Aviva Life produced a Pension Fund and Lifetime Annuity illustration. Based
on the information presented, Mr B took out one of the annuities, and was told this would
utilise 6.03% of the Standard Lifetime Allowance. In April 2019, Mr Bs independent financial
adviser (IFA) contacted Aviva Life and stated the calculation regarding Mr Bs policy had
been changed. Aviva Life confirmed theyd previously provided the wrong standard LTA
information. The correct standard LTA was 11.8%.
Mr B then raised a complaint with Aviva Life. He explained that due to his pension policy
being reclassified as a hybrid arrangement, this led to a loss of £37,342. He stated that
Aviva Life failed to inform him or his IFA that his policy was a hybrid arrangement providing
defined benefits. And as a result, his LTA usage had increased to £147,556.80. Mr B also
complained that he had incurred ongoing fees instructing his IFA to look into this matter. He
explained that he expected Aviva Life to cover these costs also. 
In their final response, Aviva Life accepted that Mr B may have made different choices to
minimise his LTA and apologised for not getting things right in the first instance. To put
things right, they asked Mr B to complete an LTA questionnaire. From this, theyd found that
the updates they made hadnt caused Mr B to exceed his LTA. Therefore, no extra tax
charges would be applicable.
Aviva Life further explained that additional income tax wouldnt be considered, as this would
be due, whether the LTA had been exceeded or not. Explaining that theyd still happily pay
for reasonable additional IFA fees incurred, they requested the final IFA invoice. And by way
of an apology and in consideration of Mr Bs loss of expectation, they gave him £300.
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to us. He explained that if Aviva Life had
made him aware, he might have made a different decision. And may not have bought the
annuity he did. Mr B further explained that finding out hed utilised considerably more of his
LTA than expected due to this error left him feeling distressed and surprised. Our
investigator explained that a qualified IFA would have advised against Mr B giving up his
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR).
Mr B didnt agree. He said Aviva Life giving him the wrong information meant he used up
more of his LTA than he was advised he would. This has led to lost growth in the tax-free
sum from his other pensions. Consequently, he has lost out. Further, Mr B doesnt think the
advice around taking out the GAR is relevant to his complaint. That said, he believes it is
very likely that he would have been advised to defer the GAR annuity purchase until aged
75. He has also stated that he doesnt understand how our investigator could use the phrase
on the balance of probabilities, stating there should be no probabilities.
This has therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Aviva Life have explained that they incorrectly informed Mr B that the LTA would be 6.03%.
And as he hasnt exceeded his LTA, theyve stated he hasnt lost out financially. However,
by way of an apology and in acknowledgement of Mr Bs loss of expectation, they have 
given him £300. Theyve also offered to cover the reasonable additional IFA costs.
As Aviva Life have acknowledged the error they made, I need only consider the impact of
the error. Ive considered whether Aviva Lifes error caused Mr B a financial loss, changed 
his position and/or caused him trouble and upset.
Did Aviva Lifes mistake cause Mr B financial loss?
Mr B believes he has lost £37,342. This is his calculation as to what he could have received
if Aviva Life hadnt noticed its error in the LTA allowance used. Having reviewed the 
evidence, I dont agree. This argument represents a fundamental mis-understanding of Mr 
Bs position.
Mr B would never have been entitled to that extra LTA %. Aviva Lifes error hasnt changed 
his LTA allowance. It just led him to believe he had more allowance left than he actually did.
However, even with the corrected LTA allowance, Mr B remained below the LTA Limit. So, at
the time Mr Bs loss was 0. There would be no additional LTA charges due in any event.
Our role at this Service is to put people back into the position they would have been in, had
an error not occurred. Not a better position.
Mr B has Fixed Protection 2016. This means he is protected against an LTA charge on
benefits worth up to £1.25m (or the standard LTA if higher). As Ive said this didnt change
and wasnt impacted by Aviva Lifes mistake. Even with the error made regarding the LTA,
Mr B didnt exceed his limit. The value of his benefits he had within his Aviva Life plan and 
his other plan, remained the same and remained under the LTA limit.
The additional 25% LTA tax charge of £16,003 Mr B has mentioned, is not a financial loss.
Once 100% of someones LTA has been used, there is a tax charge on the excess. For
income, the rate is 25%, for tax free cash 55%. This is something that will always become
payable once the LTA has been utilised.
The LTA changing didnt affect the TFC available to Mr B. The two are not linked. The
monetary amount of TFC available, is dependent on the size of the fund. Whether the LTA
was 6.03% or 11.8%, Mr Bs fund value remained the same, as did his TFC.
The error hasnt resulted in a loss. If I were to direct Aviva Life to pay the sums Mr B is
claiming, he would be benefitting twice. He would have the value of the GAR plus a
compensation amount for a lost LTA% that never existed in the first place. Mr B was never
entitled to this extra LTA, Aviva Life just mistakenly gave a lower figure giving him the belief 
he used up less of his LTA than he had.
At this Service we can make awards if the error has caused a financial loss, caused a
change of position or caused trouble and upset. Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss at the
date Aviva Life made him the offer, his LTA hadnt been exceeded. So, we cant redress him 
for that. Therefore, we need to look into whether the error changed his position. To do so, wehave to consider what we think is most likely to have happened, had the error not occurred.
Mr B seems to be unhappy with this line of enquiry but if we werent to do this, the simple
answer would be Mr B hasnt made a loss and so there would be nothing further to decide.
Has the error caused a change of position?
In order to ascertain whether the error changed Mr Bs position, I have to consider what Mr B
could or would have done if the error hadnt occurred. And whether the error could cause a
loss in the future that Mr B wouldnt otherwise have incurred.
Any risk of going over the LTA was a future risk. And this could have happened regardless,
as the LTA usage on his Aviva Life plan wouldnt just disappear by not taking it. At some 
point it would come into play when taking his benefits.
But Aviva Life offered to pay costs to mitigate any future risk or change of position. And Im
aware that Mr B consequently worked with his IFA in order to do this. Acknowledging the
additional cost of this was due to their mistake, Aviva Life covered these costs, amounting to
£1,497.
Since this, neither Mr B nor his IFA have provided any evidence to suggest there was an
issue with mitigating the risk. And costs were claimed, therefore work must have been done.
So, Im inclined to believe a satisfactory plan has been put in place in order to mitigate the
potential risk caused by Aviva Lifes mistake.
Mr B may well exceed his LTA in the future and have to pay additional charges but as I said 
before, Aviva Lifes error hasnt changed this fact. As Mr Bs IFA took the corrective steps
required and Aviva Life paid for it, I do not agree that any potential future charges regarding 
his LTA being exceeded, is Aviva Lifes responsibility.
So, the only way in which we can say Aviva Lifes error might have changed Mr Bs position 
is if he would have done something differently with the Aviva Life plan, had he been given 
correct information at the outset.
However, if Mr B had not taken the GAR with Aviva Life and instead left the plan invested. 
The later he left it likely the higher the LTA on that plan as the GAR increases with age. 
Leaving the plan until death would still incur an LTA charge for example. So, the only way to 
reduce the possible LTA charge I think wouldve been essentially to sabotage its value by 
not taking the GAR and transferring, which would be an illogical thing to do. 
As ultimately Mr Bs goal like any investor is to maximise the value from their investments. 
And not to pay the least charges possible. Much like you wouldnt refuse a pay rise that put 
you in a higher tax bracket. As youre still better off for having more money in your pocket 
even if you are paying higher tax.
In any event, I think had the error not occurred Mr B would still have taken the GAR. Mr B
told us he was advised by his IFA to take out the GAR. The GAR here is a valuable asset,
considering the value of Mr Bs plan (£62,203.00), it provided a very competitive annuity
(£7,377.84 a year, before tax). This is much higher than current annuity rates available.
I also note that Mr B has made a lot of references to wanting to maximise his tax-free cash
and how the LTA error had put these at risk. But here on the advice of his IFA, Mr B chose to
take the full value as an annuity to benefit from the GAR. And no tax-free cash. So clearly 
the value of the GAR was understood by him and/or his IFA.
Furthermore, Mr Bs IFA was initially heavily involved with the complaint with Aviva Life. Yet,I cant see at any point despite Aviva Life admitting error, it was enquired whether the GAR 
could be undone and the plan re-instated. I think this is likely because despite the increase 
in LTA, his IFA still felt that taking the GAR was the best outcome for Mr B.
Even Mr Bs initial testimony before the investigator introduced these arguments wasnt
decisive as he told us, he might have made a different decision. And may not have bought
the annuity he did, if he knew the correct LTA. Given the involvement of the IFA in Mr Bs
financial matters, I think Mr B would have followed the IFAs advice. And, due to the reasons
I have listed, I am persuaded that his IFA is likely to have advised Mr B to proceed with the
GAR.
So, the error hasnt resulted in financial loss, nor a change of position. But it did cause a loss
of expectation. As such, I will now consider the impact this error has had on Mr B.
Putting things right
Mr B has said finding out hed utilised considerably more of his LTA than expected, left him
feeling distressed and surprised. This has resulted in a loss of expectation, as Mr B had less
LTA remaining than he thought. So, the loss of expectation, caused by Aviva Lifes error, has
clearly had an impact on him. I am aware Aviva Life have already given Mr B £300, by way
of an apology for this. And I think this is a fair and reasonable amount.
There were additional IFA fees payable, due to the work carried out as a result of this error.
Aviva Life have covered the costs set by the IFA totalling £1,497. Having made this offer to
meet the reasonable additional cost of the IFA and covered them, I do not think Aviva Life
need to do anything further.
I appreciate this may be disappointing for Mr B, but I hope I have clearly explained why he
hasnt suffered any financial loss. Our role is to put people back into the position they would
have been in, had an error not occurred. Not a better position. As such, I do not direct
Aviva Life to do anything further.
The response to my provisional decision
Aviva Life had no further comments.
Mr B didnt agree with my assessment of his financial loss but has nonetheless accepted it. 
He says, as a sign of good will. Although he feels Ive misunderstood how he has lost out 
financially.
He has also raised a number of queries to be addressed.
1. Mr B disagrees that Aviva Life paid his IFA for any mitigation advice. He states the 
advice was solely about the ramifications of Aviva Lifes error. Further his IFA has 
informed him that it wouldnt have been possible to reinstate the plan, by the time 
hed been notified of the error.   
2. Mr B is unhappy that this Service has placed weight on the information he shared 
with our investigator. He states that he was asked a number of questions at a time 
when he was in the middle of doing something. And states that he wasnt aware that 
the conversations he had with this Service would form an important part of the overall 
decision process.   
3. Mr B has reiterated his discomfort at the balance of probabilities being used. 4. Mr B would like to know whether Aviva Life multiplying his annuity by 20 was queried. 
In summary Mr B thinks further consideration should be given to the arguments he has put 
forward and reconsideration should be given to the amount of compensation.  He has 
attempted to clarify why he believes £300 compensation is insufficient given the 
circumstances. And he has sought clarification on a number of points covered in my 
provisional decision
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first address the points Mr B has raised and then explain why my decision remains 
unchanged from my provisional decision. 
IFA costs
Mr B has queried what was meant by risk in my provisional decision. The risk referred to was 
with regards to Mr B exceeding his LTA. And the corrective steps mentioned refer to the 
work Mr Bs IFA did on the back of Aviva Lifes error.  Aviva Life have said the payment to 
the IFA was to cover the charges incurred for the work Mr Bs IFA carried out to mitigate any 
potential future loss. Whilst Mr B has said this wasnt the case, he hasnt provided any 
evidence in support of this. 
He has instead said that fee was for the time taken for his IFA to work on the ramifications of 
Aviva Lifes error. To my mind this is the same thing. If Mr Bs IFA was working on the 
consequence of the error, this would have covered how to avoid certain things from 
happening including not going over his LTA. I am therefore satisfied that Aviva Life, in paying 
the IFA fee, covered the cost to mitigate any potential future loss. 
Mr B has asked what corrective action, could have been taken. Im not able to give financial 
advice. But the simple fact that Mr B hasnt exceeded the LTA yet (this will only be exceeded 
by growth in his remaining pension fund), demonstrates that there are ways of mitigating any 
future tax on exceeding the LTA.
I appreciate his IFA has stated it wouldnt have been possible to reinstate the plan. But in 
circumstances where error is accepted, reinstatement (if the customer agrees to repay all 
the benefits paid) is a common option agreed on to put things right. This is not to say 
Aviva Life would have or should have offered this. But in any event, this doesnt alter my 
view that the GAR was the best option for Mr B. As stated in my provisional decision, the 
GAR is a valuable asset considering the value of Mr Bs plan. The annuity rate given, is 
much higher than current rates available. 
Information shared in conversations with our investigator
Our complaint form clearly states that we may need more information from you. An example 
of this would be our investigator asking additional questions. In order for this Service to carry 
out as full an investigation as possible we need to take into account all relevant information 
that is shared with us. This will include what is said in telephone conversations. Further, 
having listened to the call recording, Mr B didnt ask our investigator to call back at a more 
convenient time, which he could have done. 
I appreciate its difficult to say what one may have done differently in a particular situation. 
But Ive listened to the call recording in question. And Im satisfied Mr B had the opportunity to clarify the position and he clearly explained that he might have made a different decision. 
And may not have bought the annuity he did. At no point did he say with any certainty that 
he wouldnt have. So, I think it is reasonable to give this weight when considering what Mr B 
was likely to have done differently if this error hadnt occurred.
Mr Bs loss
Mr B says both I and the investigator have missed a crucial point in understanding his 
complaint. Mr B says that he has lost out on £85,000 or approximately 7% of his lifetime 
allowance. However, this in itself misses a crucial point, in that Mr B was never entitled to 
that £85,000 or 7%. It hasnt been lost, it was never his to have. Unfortunately, Aviva Lifes 
mistake led him to believe that he had used a lower LTA amount, but its correction has put 
his LTA in the correct position and the position it always should have been in. 
Mr B also says this in essence has reduced the rate of annuity he is receiving (using that 
additional LTA amount to calculate this) but it hasnt. Mr B is missing the point that his 
pension with Aviva Life whether he was to take his benefits or not, will still have an LTA 
allowance. And Mr B is also missing the point that any LTA additional tax is only payable on 
amounts exceeding his LTA. Isnt it better to have more money and pay tax, than less and 
pay no tax at all? 
As I said in my provisional decision, the only way I can see that his LTA could be reduced 
from the Aviva Life plan, would be in essence to sabotage the value that Mr B would receive 
from it. I cant see that this is what Mr B would want to do and certainly it wouldnt be 
something a professional adviser wouldve recommended. Hence why Mr Bs adviser 
recommended he take up the option of the valuable GAR attached to Mr Bs plan. 
Furthermore, the rules that this Service has to abide by means in order to uphold a 
complaint, we must find the consumer has suffered loss or harm due to the actions of the 
business. If there is no detriment, then there is no harm or loss. At the time of the mistake 
the loss to Mr B was, in financial terms, zero. He hadnt suffered a loss as his LTA amount 
including his other pension remained below the limits. And Aviva Lifes mistake didnt change 
his LTA it just gave Mr B a false expectation. 
Aside from the loss of expectation, the only possible detriment is a change of position. That 
is, Aviva Lifes mistake changed Mr Bs course of action. Mr B can do things to mitigate the 
impact of this change of position (and money was paid to his IFA to do so). And in any event, 
even without Aviva Lifes error he would still have the same LTA amounts. Whatever Mr B 
decided to do with the Aviva Life plan, the LTA wouldnt go away. The detriment Mr B has 
suffered is having to consider his future plans after realising the correct LTA amount and a 
loss of expectation. Aviva Life has in my view already put these things right.
If Mr Bs intention (as surely all investors intentions are) is to maximise his benefits, then I 
cant say that taking the benefits from his Aviva Life plan using the valuable GAR was 
something he wouldnt have done. His adviser recommend he did that for those reasons, 
recognising the value the GAR gave to Mr B. This is regardless of the LTA amount used in 
taking it, because as Ive explained leaving the fund and not taking an annuity would still 
eventually result in the use of LTA. And possibly more than has been used now.
Balance of probabilities
Mr B remains unhappy with this being applied to his complaint as I am not fully aware of his 
financial situation. I can only comment on the evidence provided to this Service. And as this 
case relates to LTA allowance that is only applicable to pension benefits, his wider financial 
situation isnt hugely important. Mr B has also had the opportunity to tell us about how his wider financial situation could make a difference but hasnt done so. What Mr B would have 
done if presented with the right information in the first instance, hasnt been demonstrated 
with any certainty. 
Therefore, in the absence of this, it is appropriate to apply the balance of probabilities. I 
explained in my provisional decision why this is appropriate. If we couldnt consider what 
might have happened, then Mr Bs case ends with no loss  as he hadnt suffered a loss at 
the date of payment. Mr B hasnt provided any information to persuade me that he would 
have acted differently. So, my view remains unchanged.  
Multiplication of annuity by 20
Mr B has questioned whether Aviva Lifes decision to multiply the annuity by 20 to obtain the 
fund value has been looked into. I can confirm that it was, and it was the right approach. The 
GAR is a hybrid arrangement as set out in section 152(8) Finance Act 2004. As such, in 
accordance with government guidance, this specific arrangement was treated as a defined 
benefits arrangement.  
HMRC require the value of defined benefits to be calculated as 20 times the annual pension, 
plus any TFC.    
Putting things right
Whilst Mr B has raised some queries, he hasnt provided any new evidence for 
consideration. Therefore, Im still of the view that he hasnt lost out financially. Mr Bs loss 
was one of expectation, with regards to his LTA. 
No new information has been shared about the impact this has had on Mr B. I am therefore 
still of the view that the £300 already given to him by way of an apology, in addition to 
Aviva Life covering his IFA costs are sufficient. As such, I will not be directing Aviva Life to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman