DRN-2296232
The complaint
Miss D alongside her representative complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) mis-sold 
her a Personal Pension in 1994 and a level annuity in 2004.
What happened
Miss D with the help of a professional representative says that in 1994 Miss D was mis-sold 
a Personal Pension  specifically because she was invested in a single Managed Fund. The 
arguments being:
The risk of poor fund performance could and shouldve been avoided with sensible 
diversification between different funds
In advising one fund it exposed Miss D to the risk of a single fund being badly 
managed and poor returns.
At a time when stock market returns were high, Miss Ds fund didnt even manage to 
return the contributions she invested. This means there must have been serious 
mismanagement of the fund or charges not disclosed to Miss D or both.
Zurich didnt consent to us looking into the fund performance/mismanagement as it said Miss 
D wouldve known in 2004 that the fund hadnt met the expected returns. And therefore she 
was out of time to bring this part of the complaint. Our investigator agreed that we couldnt 
look into the management and performance of the fund. She explained this in her view. And 
Miss Ds representative clarified that the complaint point was about the lack of diversification 
at the point of sale and the effect this had on performance and not specifically about fund 
mismanagement or performance.
The investigator concluded that the Managed Fund had been suitable for Miss D as it had 
sufficient diversification within in.
With regards to the annuity sale in 2004, Miss Ds representative says that she wasnt 
properly warned of the devastating effects inflation would have on her purchasing power. 
Had she been properly warned of this, she wouldve taken financial advice and properly 
explored the alternatives. Such as a low-cost low risk drawdown policy.
The investigator looked into matters but concluded that Miss D had been given sufficient 
information about the requirement to get advice and that inflation would reduce her 
purchasing power. The investigator also said that it looked like Miss D had sought advice 
from a party separate to Zurich before purchasing her annuity.
Miss Ds representative disagreed with her view as he felt the investigator hadnt fairly 
considered the two key parts of the complaint. And asked for an ombudsmans decision.
He said the two key parts to the complaint were:
1. the risk of such a poor investment return could and should have been avoided with 
sensible diversification between different funds. The complaint is not that the fund 
was badly-managed. 
2. the effects of inflation on a level annuity starting at 54 years of age were always 
practically certain to result in a devastating loss of purchasing power over time. If 
Miss D had been warned of this, she would have had the opportunity to seek 
independent financial advice and properly explore the alternatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is it I have to decide?
1. I have to decide whether the sale of the Personal Pension was suitable for Miss Ds 
circumstances, including the fund selected?
2. Whether Miss D was provided with suitable advice or provided with enough 
information to make an informed decision in 2004 when she took out her annuity?
The sale of the personal pension in 1994  was it suitable for Miss Ds needs?
At the time of advice, it was recorded Miss Ds circumstances were:
She had a budget of £150 per month
She was widowed
Aged 43
Self-employed  income £13,000 per annum
She had no other pension provision
Her objectives were to provide and increase retirement income
Attitude to investments  2 (taken to mean low risk by the investigator  this hasnt 
been challenged and I think on balance of probabilities is likely correct)
Selected retirement age 60
Given the above, I think there was clearly a need for retirement provision and a Personal 
Pension was a suitable product to recommend in the circumstances. However, the point of 
dispute is whether the fund selected was suitable for Miss D, its argued a lack of 
diversification caused her a loss. And that this was foreseeable at outset as being invested 
in a single fund could lead to fund mismanagement having a huge effect on Miss Ds 
potential income in retirement.
I agree that diversification is important because it spreads the risk. This is because if 100% 
of a consumers money is invested in one place, all of that money could be lost if that one 
investment performs poorly and/or is subject to negative returns. Spreading the money into 
different investments and asset classes helps reduce the risk of the overall investment 
underperforming or losing money. 
However, the Managed Fund in my view had sufficient diversification within it, that more than 
one fund wasnt required to diversify further. The Managed Fund is spread across different 
asset classes across several geographical areas.
Miss Ds representative says that by being in one fund, it exposed Miss D to fund 
mismanagement more so than if shed been in two or more funds. However, I dont think this 
can be fairly said to be a relevant consideration here. Zurich were and are a regulated 
business and the regulator is responsible for the controls put in place to make sure funds arent mismanaged. Furthermore, the Managed Fund is not a particularly complex fund and 
is suitable for an ordinary retail investor. So I think a competent adviser wouldnt need to 
have concerns about mismanagement in their thinking when considering this fund. And I 
dont think investing in a single fund that has significant diversification within it, is unsuitable 
in itself.
Its clear Miss D was only invested in one fund. But Im not persuaded there was
anything wrong with Miss D being invested in the Managed fund or that it was inappropriate. 
This is because the Managed Fund was sufficiently diverse, which in turn meant that Miss 
Ds risk was reasonably spread.
Was Miss D provided with suitable advice and/or provided with enough information to make 
an informed decision when she took out her annuity?
The evidence shows that this was a non-advised sale, so Zurich isnt responsible for the 
suitability of Miss Ds choices. However, it did need to provide Miss D with enough 
information that she could make an informed decision.
Miss Ds representative says that it didnt do enough to alert Miss D to the negative effects of 
inflation. And alternatives werent highlighted such as a low-cost drawdown. But I dont 
agree. 
Within the documentation sent to Miss D after she notified Zurich of her intention to take 
benefits, it said:
The options for non-protected rights are:
A pension with Allied Dunbar
A tax-free cash payment made by Allied Dunbar and a reduced pension with 
Allied Dunbar
A pension with another provider (known as Open Market Option)
A tax-free cash payment made by Allied Dunbar and a reduced pension with 
another pension provider
A phased retirement
An income drawdown retirement plan
The pack detailed what each of the options listed above were and in respect of the income 
drawdown option it said: This plan does not provide an income drawdown facility. It may be 
possible for the fund to be used to purchase an income drawdown or pension withdrawal 
with Allied Dunbar or with another UK Insurer. 
So Zurich (then Allied Dunbar) did make Miss D aware of her options and alternatives to an 
annuity. 
Miss D was sent a Key Features document within the retirement pack outlining her annuity 
options. Within this under risk factors it said:
Inflation will reduce what you can buy with your pension income in the future. If you choose 
an increasing annuity the initial annuity will be lower but the affects of inflation will be 
reduced.
Within the illustration sent to Miss D it said:
You may select a smaller annuity whichincreases each year at a rate up to 8.5%.This option was also included on her retirement forms.
Miss D was given relevant information informing her that inflation would reduce her 
pension income in the future. And she was given the option to select an increasing annuity 
which she was told would lower the effects of inflation. But she chose to select a level 
annuity that did not increase. This was her choice (although it is possible she sought 
advice from a company separate to Zurich) but I think she was sufficiently informed of the 
risks involved and her options. So I dont think Zurich did anything wrong here.
The documentation provided to Miss D also stated: we strongly recommend that 
financial advice is taken before making a decision on the best options available.
And I can see an advisory firm requested information regarding this plan prior to her 
making her choices. However, when Miss D completed the forms she didnt indicate 
shed received advice and Zurich has confirmed no commission was paid  and it 
was treated as a non-advised sale. 
So, Im satisfied Zurich gave Miss D enough information about her retirement options.
In conclusion, I dont think Zurich needs to do anything to put things right regarding the 
initial sale of the policy or the annuity purchase. I appreciate Miss D will be disappointed 
with my findings but for the reasons explained I dont think Zurich did anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman