DRN-2038045
The complaint
Mr S complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined his 
buildings warranty claim.
 
What happened
Mr S made a claim after he noticed some spots and small holes on the external brickwork of 
his home. 
NHBC investigated and looked at photographs of the brickwork provided by Mr S. It said the 
problem was purely cosmetic, so it wasnt something it was responsible for under the 
warranty and declined the claim. NHBC did though apologise for some communication 
issues, as it had delayed replying to some of Mr S emails. 
Our investigator didnt think NHBC had done anything wrong. She explained that under the 
policy NHBC was responsible for damage caused by defects. The spots on the bricks were 
not considered a defect, they didnt affect the structural integrity of the building and were 
purely cosmetic.  
Mr S didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Buildmark policy sets out the terms of the agreement between NHBC and Mr S. Its 
explained that cover under the warranty is split into sections. The first section covers claims 
before completion of the sale, the second is for any claims in the first two years following 
completion and the third section is the following eight years. 
Mr S claim fell under section three of the policy, which says providing the cost is more than 
the minimum claim value, NHBC will pay the full cost of putting right any damage in any of 
the listed parts of the house, which includes walls. But damage has been specifically 
defined within the policy; 
Damage is defined as physical damage to the home caused by a Defect. 
Defect is defined as the breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder 
or anyone employed by or acting for the Builder. 
But failing to follow the guidance doesnt amount to a defect if performance required 
by the NHBC standard is achieved by other means.
NHBC Standards are that any bricks used in house building should support intended loads 
and keep the home dry by resisting the passage of moisture. So, for Mr S to have a valid 
claim for his bricks a breach of the requirements must be shown. 
NHBC declined the claim because it believes the spots are just a feature of the type of bricks 
used, are cosmetic in nature and not a breach of the NHBC Standards. NHBC has shown 
similar style bricks on a manufacturers website where dark spots are visible in some places. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied NHBC has assessed Mr S claim in line with the 
policy. Mr S has not been able to demonstrate that the spots have been caused by a failure 
to support intended loads or are allowing moisture to pass into the home. And so, Im 
satisfied the outcome in declining the claim is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman