DRN-1484283
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty summerhouse. She also complains about 
the handling of her claim.
What happened
In August 2018 Mrs B bought a summerhouse at a cost of £3,835.15. She says the doors 
and windows leaked especially in a north wind. The supplier, who I will call Mr W, came to fit 
guttering in September was told of leaks and I gather responded that all sheds leak. Mrs B 
says he made an ineffective attempt to repair the leaks and suggested Mr B sand the door 
himself. At the end of October the summerhouse suffered a major leak and Mr W was asked 
to come and deal with it. He didnt respond and Mr and Mrs B sent a letter.
He came to repair the faults on 17 November, but Mrs B says he didnt succeed. Mrs B says 
he only stayed about 10 minutes. Mr W says he believed the doors and windows simply 
needed to be resealed, but a heated argument developed and Mr B ordered him off the 
property. 
Mrs B made a claim under Section 75. Tesco asked for an independent report and it said it 
would cover the cost if the claim was upheld. A report from a joinery business was supplied. 
This noted that a silicon bead should have been applied round the glass units externally. It 
added that if this was applied correctly it would not be unsightly and would prevent water 
ingress. It said the door lock had been poorly fitted and suggested this, along with timber 
swelling and shrinking could cause the door panels to leak. It suggested installing vertical 
lower panels. It also provided a quote for replacing the windows and the doors.
Mr W told Tesco he was willing to repair the seals and pointed out the lock used was 
standard for wooden outbuildings such as the summerhouse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where necessary and / or appropriate, I reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
 
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mrs B has shown in pursuit of her complaint, but I do not 
consider I can uphold it. I will explain why. 
It is accepted by all that the summerhouse has leaked. The leaks are to do with the sealant 
on the windows and with the fitting of the door. Mrs B has suggested that Tesco refund her 
the cost of the summerhouse and presumably remove it. In turn Tesco has suggested that 
the leaks can be resolved by a relatively straightforward repair.
Having read the report I see that the independent business has suggested putting sealant 
round the windows should be effective. It also suggests that the lock had been poorly fitted, 
but Mr W disagrees and say a standard lock has been used. It doesnt say the 
summerhouse isnt fit for purpose or is inherently faulty such that it cannot be repaired. So 
the summerhouse had issues, but not enough for me to say the workmanship was as bad as 
has been suggested.
My role is to consider whether Tesco has applied Section 75 fairly and has dealt with Mrs Bs 
claim reasonably. I think it has. It asked for a report which identified what was needed to 
repair the summerhouse and it agreed that this should be done at no cost to Mrs B. I would 
add that according to Tesco has paid for the report though Mr B in his response to the 
investigators view suggested it hadnt. If that is the case then I am sure Tesco will pay for it 
unless Mrs B refuses.
Mrs and Mr B have lost confidence in Mr W and there has been a breakdown in their 
relationship. That is regrettable. However, Mr W says he is willing to repair the 
summerhouse and I think that is a reasonable response. I appreciate Mr B has said Mr W 
has had three opportunities to effect a repair. I am not persuaded that is the case. If Mr W 
had been given the time and full opportunity to repair the leak and that had failed I would 
most likely have taken a different view.
Mrs B has also referred to the advertising material used by Mr W and has queried whether 
this was misleading. I have read this and it reads as most such material does, with a number 
of generalisations. However, I dont think it is such that I can say that what is in that material 
was the central to the decision to buy the summerhouse from Mr W.  
Mr B in his latest email said that Mr W had told him and his wife that he could build the 
summer house to their specifications, double glazed, internally sealed and beaded. The 
invoice signed by Mrs B makes no reference to these details and I can see the current 
specifications on the summerhouse only refer to double glazing and not to seals or beads. I 
have noted it was sold with a 10% discount and there is annotation which says S/H.
Mrs B has also said that Tescos handling of the claim hasnt been sufficiently detailed. I 
dont believe that to be the case. It took note of her representations and asked for an 
independent report. I agree it did say the report cost would only be covered if the claim was 
upheld. But as a goodwill gesture it agreed to pay for it. I dont think I can hold it to be at fault 
for that. 
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already made an offer to settle the Section 75 claim. Mrs 
B should contact Tesco directly if she now wishes to accept this.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman