DRN-3544784
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc handled a request for a refund for goods 
which were not as advertised. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr H bought goods from a supplier in the Netherlands. They cost €169, 
which Mr H paid using his Halifax credit card, issued by Bank of Scotland. 
The items which Mr H had ordered were not however what he expected. He returned them 
to the supplier and requested a refund. The supplier agreed but said that it could not process 
a refund to Mr Hs credit card; it could only do so by direct payment  which was not made. 
Mr H sent an email to Halifax on 3 December 2021, explaining what had happened. He 
followed this up with a telephone call on 7 December, followed by six further calls over the 
following five days. The calls were not productive, and on each occasion Mr H says he was 
left on hold for an unreasonable length of time. 
Mr H submitted a complaint about Halifaxs handling of his claim for a refund. Again, he 
found it difficult to contact the bank or to get any response, either by phone or email. 
On 16 December, however, Mr Hs credit card account was credited with a refund for the 
goods and a further £6.23 in respect of the costs of returning the goods.
When Halifax reviewed Mr Hs complaint, it acknowledged that its service had not been what 
Mr H had expected. It offered him £75 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had 
been put and a further £110 to cover the cost of telephone calls.    
When Mr H referred the matter to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought however that Halifaxs offer was reasonable and did not recommend 
that it do any more. Mr H did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs initial reason for trying to contact Halifax was that he had not received the refund he 
had been promised by the retailer and to which he was entitled. Its explanation  that it could 
not refund the payment to Mr Hs credit card  was surprising, since that is how a refund of a 
card payment would usually be made. But that was nothing to do with Halifax. 
Once the bank received a request for a refund, however, I think it processed it within a 
reasonable time. Credits were made to Mr Hs card account on 16 December 2021. When 
Mr H submitted his complaint to this service, in early January 2022, he said that he was 
seeking a refund. I can understand therefore why the investigator explained the process in 
his initial assessment. 
The remaining part of Mr Hs complaint, however, concerns the difficulty he had in making 
his claim for a refund and in obtaining information about its progress. I note that Halifax says 
that it was in part due to staffing issues over the Christmas and New Year period. It is of 
course for Halifax to decide how to manage its people, but if it does not devote sufficient 
resources to provide an effective service to its customers, there is a risk that they will 
complain and seek compensation. In some cases, including this one, that will be justified. 
I do however agree with the investigator that the offer which Halifax made was reasonable in 
the circumstances. I think it fairly reflects the inconvenience to which Mr H was put as a 
result of the banks actions and the additional costs he incurred. I therefore simply leave it to 
him to decide whether or not to accept that offer.        
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman