DRN-2609821
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.   
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1991.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Santander has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. This is because Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs C, but I dont 
think it was suitable for them. Mrs C has provided evidence that she suffered from some 
medical conditions that may not have been covered by the policy. And I think, from the 
information Mr C has given me, its more likely than not Mr C was already self-employed in a 
second job when the PPI started. This would have made it difficult for him to meet the 
conditions for a claim if he was made redundant from his main employed job. 
So, I think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of what the business did wrong.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman