DRN-2826940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy for a problem with their septic tank.
Mr O has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr O got in touch with RSA. His septic tank had been overflowing, so hed 
asked a specialist to empty it. The specialist found the system was blocked and said it could 
cost around £3,000 to put right as the layout may need to be changed. Mr O asked RSA if 
his policy would cover this cost.
RSA declined the claim. Based on comments Mr O made about when he first noticed a 
problem with the system, it said the problem had begun prior to its policy starting in 
December 2019. Mr O didnt think RSA had interpreted what hed said fairly and complained. 
He thought it would be reasonable to take the date he made the claim as the relevant one.
RSA didnt provide a complaint response and Mr O referred his complaint to this service. 
The investigator thought RSA had declined Mr Os claim fairly. Mr O disagreed and provided 
further comments from the drainage specialist. This didnt change the outcome of the 
complaint and its now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers accidental damage to the septic tank and accidental breakage to drains 
and pipes. Accidental damage is defined in the policy to mean sudden, unexpected and 
visible damage which has not been caused on purpose.
The policy doesnt cover any loss or damage occurring or arising from something which 
happened before the start of the policy.
This complaint is about the timing of the problem  and whether it began before or after the 
policy started.
When Mr O spoke to RSA, he was asked when he first noticed the problem. He said 
possibly within 12 months. When asked to be more specific, he said it was around the same 
time the year before, so around July 2019. Mr Os policy with RSA began in December 2019. 
RSA interpreted what Mr O said to mean the problem began before the start of the policy.
I know Mr O considers the relevant date ought to be when he made his claim. I dont agree. 
Im satisfied the policy terms Ive noted above mean a claim for a problem which happened, 
or began happening, prior to the start of the policy isnt covered. Its common for home 
insurance policies to only cover problems which occur during the period of insurance, so I 
dont think RSAs policy is unusual on this point. That means its relevant to understand 
when the problem claimed for began.
Mr O has said the septic tank hadnt been leaking consistently between July 2019 and July 
2020. Leaks were intermittent and usually followed periods of heavy rain. So whilst the tank 
had leaked at times as far back as July 2019, that didnt necessarily mean the blockage 
problem discovered in July 2020 had been happening for all of that time. I agree its possible 
that leaks caused by heavy rainfall could be a separate problem to the blockage. So its 
important to understand when the blockage is likely to have happened.
The drainage specialist who emptied and inspected the tank has provided comments. In 
summary they said:
The leachfield (also known as a soakaway) was full of water and inoperable.
The pipe between the tank and soakaway was blocked by roots and displaced 
pipework.
The soakaway is in a neighbours field and subject to heavy agricultural use.
The soakaway has been failing for many years due to the roots and agricultural use.
Im satisfied this shows the problem Mr O has claimed for  the blocked pipe and soakaway 
 began prior to the start of the policy. I think its a gradual problem thats built up over time. 
And theres no indication a new and intervening cause has occurred since the policy began. 
So whilst I agree the leaks caused by heavy rainfall dont necessarily show the timing of the 
problem claimed for, the nature of the damage and the opinion of the specialist does.
Because of this Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman