DRN-3230449
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tavistock Partners Limited gave poor advice regarding his pension 
transfer from a Section 32 pension plan into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
also says Tavistock prematurely advised him to move his pension funds into cash which 
caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In late 2020 Mr B approached Tavistock for their advice regarding his Section 32 pension 
plan. 
Its recorded that Mr B was concerned about the death benefits of the plan and sought 
advice to have the pension transferred. The Section 32 had a value of around £260,000 and 
was held with a provider who Ill refer to as provider C. 
At the time Mr B also held a SIPP with a value of around £600,000 with a provider who Ill 
refer to as provider H. Mr B says hed already approached provider H for advice on moving 
his pension. But he felt their advice fees were too high. 
In October 2020 Mr B discussed, over text message and emails, the fees he would pay 
Tavistock for their advice regarding his section 32 plan. A fee of 1% of the transfer value was 
agreed. 
Mr B says Tavistock advised him to sell the investments he held in his section 32 plan into 
cash in preparation for them to be transferred to a new provider. He attempted to do this in 
October 2020 but his request wasnt actioned. In November 2020 he spoke again with 
provider C and emailed Tavistock to confirm hed instructed his provider to sell his funds. 
Mr B had provided his consent to provider C to pass information to Tavistock about his 
Section 32 plan. But the information was delayed and over the following weeks Tavistock 
and Mr B both chased provider C for the information Tavistock needed.
In early February 2021 provider C gave Tavistock the information they needed to advise 
Mr B. And Tavistock produced a recommendation letter on 15 February 2021. In it, they 
recommended that Mr B transfer his section 32 plan to a SIPP with a new provider  
provider A. 
The same day Mr B responded to Tavistocks recommendation. He said he didnt wish to set 
up a new SIPP, but instead wanted to consolidate his funds into his existing SIPP with 
provider H. He went on to say: we agreed for your service of providing your report and for 
transferring of the funds to [provider H] is 1% 
In response, Tavistock said they didnt recall agreeing to only consider a transfer to 
provider H. They said Mr Bs funds hadnt performed very well in his existing SIPP and 
therefore there was no benefit to Mr B choosing his own funds with provider H. 
Over the following weeks Mr B spoke with Tavistock and provider C. He attempted to 
transfer his funds to provider H on the basis that Tavistock had recommended a transfer of 
his section 32 pension, albeit to another provider. But provider C required Tavistock to sign a 
declaration document to say that Mr B had received appropriate advice. And Tavistock 
refused. They said they hadnt recommended a transfer to provider H. 
Tavistock initially said they could look at the transfer again. But it would need the oversight 
of a pension transfer specialist (PTS) and theyd charge a fee of £4000 plus 1% of the 
transfer value. But Mr B says Tavistock later said hed become an insistent client, as he was 
insistent on transferring only to provider H.  And Tavistock said they dont transact business 
on an insistent client basis, so they closed Mr Bs file. He wasnt charged a fee. 
Mr B complained to Tavistock. Later clarifying his complaint with them. In summary he said;
Tavistocks adviser had known it was his intention to consolidate his pension with 
provider H. And Tavistock hadnt provided any comparison as to why provider A was 
better than provider H. 
Tavistocks adviser hadnt had the correct oversight of a PTS and knew the 1% fee 
was never going to be the total fee Mr B would have to pay.
Tavistock advised him to sell down to cash in November 2020 which had left him 
invested outside of the market and so hed suffered a financial loss.
Hed instructed a new firm to provide him advice at a fee of £1,000 plus 2.5% of the 
transfer value. So, he was seeking compensation of the difference in fees.  
Tavistock responded to Mr Bs complaints. In summary they said;
There wasnt any evidence that their adviser agreed to only consider a transfer to 
provider H. But they acknowledged the problems Mr B had with their advice resulted 
from a misunderstanding of his requirements from the outset. 
The recommendation letter contained some information about provider A but 
Tavistock agreed that they didnt send Mr B enough information about provider A.
There was no evidence their advisor intended to charge Mr B more than the agreed 
1% fee. And as the transfer didnt go ahead no fee had or would be charged. 
Their adviser had sent Mr B the recommendation before it had the oversight of a 
PTS. They said sending it to a PTS would have caused a further delay but would 
have highlighted the lack of detail normally found in a recommendation letter. 
There was no evidence their adviser had advised Mr B to switch his investment into 
cash. And they could not be responsible for any investment decisions Mr B had 
made. 
Tavistock said the issues could have been avoided had Mr B made it clear in the initial email 
exchanges that he only wished to transfer to provider H and that he would not consider any 
other solutions. However, they acknowledged that Mr B hadnt received the expected level of 
service from them and offered him £300 as an apology for the inconvenience caused.
Mr B was unhappy with Tavistocks responses and so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said Tavistock should have done better to identify Mr Bs objectives from the 
start. But he was unable to agree that Mr B had made it clear to Tavistock that he only 
wanted to transfer to provider H. Regarding the recommendation letter, he said Tavistock 
shouldnt have sent it to Mr B before a PTS had reviewed it. But in any case, Mr B rejected 
the recommendation, so the fact a PTS hadnt reviewed it didnt affect the outcome of Mr Bs 
complaint.
Our investigator also said there was no evidence that Tavistock advised Mr B to switch his 
funds into cash in late 2020. So overall, while Tavistock could have done better, our investigator didnt think their actions caused Mr B a financial loss. But he thought £300 was a 
fair offer for the trouble and upset Mr B suffered. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have provided detailed submissions to support their case. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. These include 
the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), also states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that Tavistock needed to obtain enough information from Mr B as 
necessary to ensure their recommendation met his objectives. 
Mr B says he made it clear to Tavistocks advisor in their initial meeting that it was his 
intention to consolidate his pension with provider H. Tavistock disagree. They say Mr B 
wanted advice to transfer his pension into a suitable SIPP. 
I wasnt present at the meetings between Mr B and Tavistock, so I cant say for certain what 
was said. When information is conflicting or missing, as it is in this case, I base my decision 
on what I think is likely to have happened based on the evidence available to me.
As Ive said, the regulator expects businesses to know their clients and their objectives 
before giving them advice. And if there was any uncertainty, Id have expected Tavistock to 
clarify Mr Bs objectives with him. 
The fact find recorded Mr Bs objective as moving his funds out of a section 32 pension so 
that he had greater flexibility and could pass any surplus funds on to his children. And Mr B 
has confirmed that he was concerned about the global pandemic and the death benefits 
attached to his section 32 pension.
So, considering the available evidence I think Mr Bs overriding objective was to move his 
funds out of the section 32 plan where the death benefits were of less value to him. And 
Tavistock based its recommendation on that objective.
While Mr B says Tavistocks advisor made it clear he didnt like provider H. He also said he 
might have considered another platform provider at some stage if it was cheaper than 
provider H. 
As Tavistock were independent financial advisors, I dont find it unusual that their advice 
would focus on what they thought was in Mr Bs best interests considering the whole market 
when looking at transferring his section 32 pension. Rather than limiting their advice and 
looking at a specific provider that Mr B himself had recommended. Ive also considered the various emails Mr B sent at the time which I think are a good 
indication of what was agreed. Having read the emails between Mr B and Tavistock and 
considering the full circumstances at the time, I dont think on balance, theres sufficient 
evidence to show Mr B had made it clear that the advice he wanted had to be centred on a 
transfer to provider H. So, I think it was reasonable for Tavistock to produce a 
recommendation letter based on what they thought was in Mr Bs best interests.
Mr B also says it was Tavistock that advised him to move his funds into cash. And that was 
premature as they wouldnt then transact the transfer that he wished them to. So, Ive 
considered whether there is sufficient evidence to say, on balance, that Tavistock advised 
Mr B to switch his funds to cash. 
Mr B originally attempted to switch his funds into cash in October 2020, but that switch didnt 
go ahead. He then called and wrote to provider C in November 2020, providing them with a 
fund switch form. I cant see any reference to Tavistock advising Mr B to make the switch to 
cash in any of the correspondence between Mr B, Tavistock and provider C. And Mr B had 
made it clear in his emails with Tavistock that the only advice he wanted from them was to 
transfer his pension. 
I appreciate Mr Bs testimony that Tavistock verbally advised him to move to cash, and the 
timings of his requests followed meetings with Tavistocks advisor. But on balance, I dont 
think theres sufficient evidence for me to say thats likely what happened. The evidence 
suggests it was Mr Bs decision and actions that caused his funds to be moved to cash. And 
thats understandable given his concerns around the pandemic and his belief the transfer of 
his pension would go ahead imminently. 
It took several months from Mr B instructing Tavistock to give him advice on his pension 
transfer to a recommendation report being sent to him in February 2021. However, in a 
separate complaint, provider C have acknowledged they caused delays during this period as 
they failed to recognise that Tavistock had authority to access information about Mr Bs 
funds. And Mr B and Tavistock have sent evidence that both parties chased provider C for 
the information during this period. So, I dont think it would be fair to apportion blame on 
Tavistock for the length of time it took them to produce the recommendation letter. As that 
couldnt be done until Tavistock had received all the required information from provider C.
Tavistock acknowledged that the recommendation letter itself didnt contain enough 
information about provider A for Mr B to make an informed choice about his pension transfer. 
And I think the letter ought to have explored the reasons why Tavistock thought a transfer to 
provider H wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. And ultimately, I think this lack of detail caused 
inconvenience and upset to Mr B, having to correspond further with Tavistocks advisor to 
see why he hadnt recommended a transfer to provider H. 
Following the recommendation letter, I think it was reasonable of Tavistock not to sign the 
declaration that Mr B had received appropriate advice for a transfer to provider H. I say that 
because Tavistock made it clear in emails after their recommendation letter that they 
wouldnt have recommended a transfer to provider H. But they hadnt provided any detailed 
analysis or pointed out the specific risks to Mr B of a transfer to provider H. So, Mr B 
wouldnt be making an informed choice. And therefore, signing the forms to suggest Mr B 
had received appropriate advice on a transfer to provider H was unlikely to be in Mr Bs best 
interest.  
It transpired in the conversations that took place following their advice that Tavistocks 
recommendation hadnt been reviewed by a PTS prior to it being sent to Mr B. And Mr B 
says this is a breach of the regulators rules. But our services role is to resolve individual 
complaints between financial businesses and their customers. It isnt to punish a business if they dont follow the regulators rules. As Mr B didnt follow Tavistocks recommendation, 
theres no need for me to consider what would have happened if a PTS had reviewed the 
recommendation before it was sent. 
There were also conversations between Mr B and Tavistock around looking into the transfer 
again with the oversight of a PTS. But Tavistock quoted a higher fee for that work. I 
appreciate Mr Bs concerns that Tavistock had originally quoted him a fee of only 1% of the 
transfer value and later said the oversight of a PTS would increase the fee. But theres no 
evidence Tavistocks advisor would have gone against the signed fee agreement had the 
transfer gone ahead. And ultimately Mr B didnt pay any fees to Tavistock as he didnt follow 
their recommendation. So, I dont think hes suffered a financial loss in that respect. Although 
I can see how the whole situation had caused him a considerable amount of upset and 
inconvenience.  
Tavistock also said to Mr B in their communications that theyd classed him as an insistent 
client, as he wanted to go against their recommendation. And, as their firm had a policy not 
to transact on an insistent client basis, they were unable to help Mr B further. I can see why 
this upset Mr B, as he felt Tavistock had still recommended a transfer of his section 32 
pension. It was just the provider that they disagreed on. But Tavistock had made a 
recommendation that clearly advised he move to provider A. So, Mr Bs intentions to 
disregard that recommendation would have made him an insistent client if the transaction 
would have continued at that point. And its a legitimate business decision Tavistock are 
entitled to make, not to transact on an insistent client basis. 
Once Tavistock had indicated they wouldnt continue with any involvement in Mr Bs transfer, 
he sought help from another firm. Mr B ultimately ended up paying higher fees with that firm. 
But it wouldnt be fair to hold Tavistock responsible for the increased fees Mr B paid as they 
didnt recommend the transfer to provider H that Mr B wanted. And he was free to shop 
around for other advice. So, I wont ask them to pay the difference in the fee Mr B ultimately 
paid.
Overall, I think it was unfortunate that both parties werent entirely clear from the outset as to 
what the recommendation letter would focus on. And that ultimately led to Mr B being 
unhappy with Tavistocks advice and the relationship breaking down. But Tavistock were 
working in Mr Bs best interests as the overarching principles say they should. Theres also 
insufficient evidence that Tavistock advised Mr B to move his funds into cash, so I dont think 
theyre responsible for Mr Bs perceived financial loss in that respect.   
But Tavistock could have handled the situation better, their recommendation letter lacked the 
detail it required around provider A. And had they clarified Mr Bs objectives better at the 
start, I think the report could have included more analysis of why a transfer to Provider H 
wasnt recommended. It should also have been reviewed by a PTS prior to being sent. 
These errors caused Mr B a considerable amount of upset and inconvenience. However, I 
think Tavistocks offer of £300 fairly reflects the upset and inconvenience they caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tavistock Partners Limited, if they havent done so already, should 
pay Mr B £300 for the upset and inconvenience they caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Timothy WilkesOmbudsman