DRN-4059702
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) cash settlement it 
offered, following a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
After a storm, Mrs R contacted Admiral as her conservatory was damaged by the high 
winds. It asked Mrs R to obtain a quote, which she did and submitted. The quote was for just 
over £24,000. And recommended that the conservatory be replaced in full due to the entire 
structure moving, as a result of the storm and the age of the building.  
Admiral sent a surveyor to validate the damage. In his report he recommended that Admiral 
offer a cash settlement of £271.28 (less £200 excess) to repair the one panel. He said that 
the conservatory was around 30 years old and there was wear and tear to the roof because 
of this. 
Given the discrepancy between the two reports, Mrs R contacted Admiral and complained. 
She said that its surveyor who attended her home, was discourteous. Her expert (and the 
quote) confirmed that the structure had shifted as a result of the storm, and it was leaking 
internally. 
In its final response, Admiral said that as there was wear and tear to the conservatory roof. 
And the policy exclusion meant that wear and tear wasnt covered, a cash settlement was 
offered for the one blown off roof panel. Mrs R was given her referral rights and referred a 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that, although Admiral accepted there were storm conditions present, its surveyors 
comments were limited to the damage to the roof only. There was no mention in the report 
as to the structural damage. And despite asking Admiral for further evidence about the wear 
and tear, and its comments about the structural integrity of the conservatory, no further 
information was provided. So, he recommended that Admiral provide settlement cover for 
the frame of the conservatory. And also pay Mrs R £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. He didnt recommend that Admiral pay for the door as he felt that it looked 
undamaged. 
Admiral did not reply to our investigators view. Mrs R said that she had recently obtained a 
quote for £23,000 to replace the entire conservatory, as she had been advised that it was 
unrepairable. She couldnt understand why Admiral wouldnt be replacing the conservatory 
as the damage was due to a storm and not because it was old. She also mentioned that she 
had been inconvenienced by Admiral due to the time it had taken, chasing for updates and 
that some of her furniture had been damaged due to the leaks in the conservatory. So, she 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 1 March 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 29 
March 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint, and I hope my provisional findings explain 
why I think this is fair. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether Admirals cash settlement was fair. Also, in issue 
is whether there was wear and tear on the conservatory, that meant that Admiral was fair to 
offer the £271.28.
Both parties accept that there was a storm (namely high winds) at the time the damage was 
caused. Admiral confirmed that it asked Mrs R to get a quote for the repairs and Mrs R 
obtained a quote from a company who was experienced in the supply, repair, and surveying 
of conservatories. The report that the contractor wrote recommended the following: I 
strongly recommend that due to storm damage and the age of the existing Conservatory that 
the entire roof and frame structure is to be replaced in full otherwise it is a false economy 
and not suitable as the entire structure has moved and needs replacing. 
Once Admiral had been provided with the report, it instructed its surveyor to assess the 
damage. Its surveyor reported that storm conditions were present, but the damage caused to 
the roof was due to wear and tear, namely that the conservatory was old, and the roof had 
reached the end of its life. Because of this, Admiral offered a cash settlement based only on 
the damage caused to one roof panel, a total of £271.28. 
Ive reviewed this report and there is no mention or assessment as to the damage caused to 
the structure of the building. Admiral was asked to provide its comments about this, but none 
were provided. 
It was also asked to specify where in the property, it said there was wear and tear and 
exactly how this presented. And whether it agreed that the building had shifted as a result of 
the storm. Again, no further information was provided.   
Mrs R said that the conservatory had shifted as a result of the storm (confirmed by her 
surveyors report) plus both parties accept that the roof panel had blown off. I have looked at 
the weather reports and there were hurricane strength winds at the time of the event. So, Im 
satisfied that the winds would be strong enough to cause structural damage. 
Given that the report from Admirals surveyor is lacking in detail as to where the wear and 
tear was seen, and that there were no comments about the structural integrity of the 
building, Im persuaded by Mrs Rs expert that there was structural damage to the 
conservatory. 
I note that both reports mention the age of the conservatory and Mrs R confirmed that it was 
around 30 years old, so I think that its age, was a factor. But Mrs R said that she had, over 
the years updated and replaced various parts of the conservatory. Further, Admiral hasnt 
provided me with any evidence that refutes, that the structural integrity of the conservatory, was solely due to wear and tear. In the absence of this evidence, Im persuaded by Mrs Rs 
expert that the storm was the main cause of the damage to the conservatory. And that the 
conservatory shifted as a result, which would make it unrepairable.
If Admiral can produce evidence that shows that the entire conservatory had suffered wear 
and tear and that was the main reason for the damage, then I will consider it. But as it 
stands, I agree that as the structure had been shifted by the strong winds, the main cause of 
damage was the storm. And as the structural integrity of the conservatory had been 
compromised, it should be replaced.
I understand that Mrs R is seeking a higher amount of compensation, than the £100 
recommended by our investigator, for the trouble and upset caused. Mrs R described that 
she had to chase Admiral for updates and that she was waiting for a reasonable offer for 
around a year. She also said that because of the damage to the conservatory, the room was 
unusable and the furniture inside became weather damaged. 
I must say any claim of this nature, is going to involve a homeowner in some inconvenience. 
And I know that Mrs R was deeply unimpressed with how Admiral handled her claim. But 
there is a duty for Mrs R to mitigate her losses. And I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mrs R to have moved any furniture from the conservatory to prevent weather damage. I can 
see in the photos that temporary repairs to the missing panel with tarpaulin was used. So, I 
think this would have helped to prevent further damage. 
Ive taken all of Mrs Rs detailed comments into account in reaching my decision and when 
assessing the impact. And I think this event caused distress and inconvenience, the impact 
was more than just minimal and needed a reasonable amount of effort to sort out, so I intend 
to direct Admiral to pay compensation of £250, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R said that she had the invoice for the conservatory, which she has since replaced. She 
asked how long the process would now take and thanked our service for dealing with her 
complaint. 
Admiral re-submitted the same photographs of the conservatory and the same report from its 
expert. It also said that from the photos, it could be seen that there was wear and tear, the 
fixtures and fittings were old and there was rope holding some of the conservatory together. 
It felt that wear and tear was an issue and this gradual damage, wasnt covered by the 
policy. It also re-iterated the policy exclusions. 
I have carefully considered all the further comments from both parties. Both parties were 
asked to provide any further evidence to support their comments. 
Admiral hasnt provided me with any further evidence to show that the structural integrity of 
the building was compromised due to wear and tear and not the storm. As mentioned, it has 
relied on its expert report and re-submitted the same photos as before. I note that it said the 
photos showed wear and tear, but I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
Admiral mentioned that the conservatory was being held together with rope. And this was 
one of the reasons why there was wear and tear. I have further reviewed the photos and the 
only rope that can be seen is attached to the tarpaulin, which was used to cover the roof 
panel, that had blown off in the storm. 
I have reviewed the report that Admiral submitted, and I make the following observations. 
The report confirms that there were storm conditions at the time. And that the damage was consistent with storm damage. It goes on to say that the roof was around 30 years of age. 
And concludes that the pre incident condition was aged. What is of note, is that there is no 
mention of wear and tear in the structural integrity or of the conservatory itself. Indeed, the 
pre incident condition mentions age, which doesnt in my view support wear and tear. 
Taking all of these points into consideration and in the absence of any expert evidence that 
refutes Mrs Rs expert, Im satisfied that the damage to the conservatory was as a result of 
storm damage and not wear and tear. And Ive seen no evidence to dissuade me from my 
provisional findings. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct Admiral as below. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reimburse the costs of the conservatory, on 
production of an invoice from Mrs R. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited pay Mrs R £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest at 8% a year simple on the above amounts, from the date Mrs R paid for the 
repairs to the date of settlement to reflect that she has been deprived of these funds.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs R a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman