DRN-3646283
The complaint
Miss H complains ClearBank Limited are holding her liable for payments that she says were 
made from her account without her knowledge or permission. 
I understand Miss Hs account is operated through a platform provided by ClearBanks 
business partner under the Tide brand. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to ClearBank 
throughout, but where relevant the reference should be understood as meaning Tide.  
What happened
The detailed circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not 
repeat them all again here. But I will provide an overview of the relevant events below.
Miss H says in March 2021, she received a call, from who she at the time believed to be her 
broadband provider. One of the individuals she spoke to, persuaded her that her security 
had been compromised. She granted them remote access to her computer to fix the issue. 
Miss H says her partner became suspicious when the caller started asking for his details. He 
questioned them, and the call was terminated. Miss H explains, following this she checked 
her ClearBank account through another device and discovered that two payments she didnt 
recognise totalling around £12,000 had been made. She contacted ClearBank and raised a 
fraud claim, as well as reporting the matter to the Police, Action Fraud and her broadband 
provider. 
ClearBank contacted the recipient banks but unfortunately nothing could be recovered. It 
also declined Miss Hs fraud claim. It said it was unable to refund Miss H as the technical 
evidence contradicted her testimony. Miss H complained as she was unhappy with 
ClearBanks decision to not provide a refund and with the level of service it had provided 
whilst investigating her fraud claim.
ClearBank maintained its position to decline the claim. It said it was unable to see how a 
third party could have accessed Miss Hs online banking information or had access to the 
text messages (containing one-time passcodes) that were sent to her registered mobile 
number when the new payees were set up. ClearBank said that the device used to set up 
the payees and make the payments was a known device which Miss H had been using 
since November 2020. It was also satisfied that its security systems hadnt been breached, 
and that it had done all it could to try and recover the money from the recipient banks. 
However, it agreed that the service it had provided wasnt up to standard, as Miss H needed 
to chase a few times for an update, and it hadnt provided a timely response to her query. It 
made an offer of £75 for the trouble and upset caused by its lack of communication. 
Miss H didnt accept ClearBanks offer. She referred her complaint to this service. She 
maintained shed not made the disputed payments. She said shed only given the caller 
access to her computer  on which none of her ClearBank online banking details were held. 
She said the banking app associated with her ClearBank account was only accessible 
through her tablet, which shed not given the caller access to. She explained that shed 
never received any one-time passcode (OTP) messages to her registered phone during the 
period that the money was taken. She said had she done so, it wouldve alerted her, in turn 
preventing her loss. She would like ClearBank to reimburse her in full.  
ClearBank said if Miss H could provide evidence from her phone provider to support her 
testimony that shed not received the text messages containing the OTPs it would take this 
into consideration. Miss H felt it was for ClearBank to obtain this information  not her. Our 
Investigator explained to Miss H that she would need to contact her phone provider. She did, 
but it could not provide this information. Therefore, Miss H has not been able to provide any 
evidence to corroborate her testimony. 
After reviewing all the evidence provided by both parties our Investigator was unable to see 
how anyone else would have been able to make the payments Miss H was complaining 
about. It followed that he didnt think ClearBanks decision to reject Miss Hs claim based on 
the evidence available to it was unreasonable. He was also satisfied ClearBank couldnt 
have done more to assist with the recovery of Miss Hs funds. Overall, he was not persuaded 
that ClearBank had acted unfairly in responding to the concerns Miss H had raised.  Miss H 
was disappointed with the outcome. She asked for her complaint to remain open and be 
reviewed again. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a decision. Miss H 
asked to speak to the Ombudsman deciding her complaint. She said she wanted to provide 
clarification and some further information. I called Miss H to offer her the opportunity to do 
so.  During this call Miss H told me that receiving unwelcomed news in writing was unsettling 
for her, and that shed prefer I call to share my decision. I agreed and called Miss H once Id 
reached my intended outcome  which unfortunately was that I couldnt ask ClearBank to 
refund Miss Hs loss. 
Understandably this was upsetting for Miss H. She didnt accept and said, for her the matter 
will remain unresolved until she has been fully reimbursed. It was explained to Miss H that 
an Ombudsmans determination is the last stage of our process, and this is something which 
would normally be issued in writing. We couldnt leave her case open indefinitely, and a 
written final decision would need to be issued to draw matters to a close. Miss H confirmed 
she understood and agreed for us to take the action required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know my decision will be very disappointing for Miss H. Having spoken to 
her its clear she feels strongly about ClearBanks actions. But after carefully considering the 
evidence and arguments in this case, Im not persuaded that in these circumstances it would 
be fair and reasonable to say ClearBank should refund these payments. Ill explain why.Firstly, I would like to assure Miss H Ive read and considered everything she has told me. I 
understand she has many questions and has asked for further explanations where she isnt 
satisfied with the ones that have been given. But the purpose of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them - this simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service. Im not required to respond to each and every question. So, my findings here focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues. If I dont mention any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive already explained to Miss H when we spoke, I wasnt present at the time the disputed 
payments took place, so I cant possibly know, nor is it for me to determine exactly what 
happened. And where evidence might be incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, which 
can often be the case, Im required to reach an outcome on the balance of probability. This 
means I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence 
that is available to me. 
Here, Miss Hs claim is that the disputed payments were made without her knowledge or 
consent. Accordingly, the crux of the dispute here and what I need to decide is whether 
ClearBank has acted unfairly in holding Miss H liable for the disputed payments. The 
regulation that is relevant when considering this matter is the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), which explain that an account holder will usually be liable for a payment 
theyve authorised, and generally speaking, a payment service provider/bank will be liable 
for an unauthorised payment.
  
Im satisfied, having seen ClearBanks technical records, that personalised security 
information alongside payment tools issued to Miss H (such as OTPs sent to her registered 
mobile phone number) were used to make the disputed payments. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable ClearBank to hold her 
liable. So, I also need to think about, based on the evidence available, whether ClearBanks 
conclusion that it can hold Miss H liable as its more likely than not that she consented to the 
payments being made, is fair and reasonable.
As far as I can see Miss Hs case is mostly based on her testimony. I hope she can 
appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a complaint based largely 
on her testimony if, on balance, the evidence provided by ClearBank suggests otherwise.
ClearBank have shared evidence with this service which shows: 
- The device used to make the payments was Miss Hs tablet. 
- On the day the payments Miss H disputes were made, two text messages containing 
OTPs, one at around 10am and another around 11am were sent to her registered 
mobile number, which is the same phone number that we hold for Miss H and have 
used to contact her. 
- The OTPs were used to set up and verify two new payees to whom the payments 
Miss H says she doesnt recognise were made.
Miss H has consistently maintained she has no knowledge, nor has she given permission for 
any of the payments that are in dispute to be made. She says:    
- She only gave the caller remote access to her computer  not her mobile phone or 
her tablet. 
- The only device through which her banking app can be accessed is her tablet, which 
she says no-one had access to during the time the payments were made. 
- Shed not shared any of her security credentials for her ClearBank account with the 
caller.   - She never received any text messages from ClearBank containing OTPs (on her 
mobile phone or any other device).
Having considered everything, Im more persuaded by ClearBanks technical evidence that 
text messages were sent to Miss Hs mobile phone. Ive thought about whether it would have 
been possible for these text messages to have gone to another device without ever being 
seen on Miss Hs phone. But given Miss H says shed not given the caller access to her 
mobile phone and theres been no suggestion or evidence provided that shows it had been 
tampered with I cannot see any plausible way for someone to have intercepted the OTPs 
sent to Miss Hs phone that were used to verify the new payee set ups to which the 
payments which are disputed were made. Similarly, I cant find a conceivable explanation for 
how the unknown third party was able to get access to Miss Hs tablet.  
I know Miss H believes ClearBanks security systems are inadequate. She argues the 
measures ClearBank have in place are not sufficient and mustve allowed fraudsters to 
bypass her security credentials to gain access to her account. But I havent seen anything 
that would suggest that ClearBanks security systems have been breached  nor does the 
evidence of how the payments were executed entirely support this theory. 
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss H. Im aware that the loss of the money has 
impacted her in a number of ways, and I can understand why she feels strongly about what 
has happened here. But my role as an independent and impartial arbitrator requires me to 
consider the available evidence and reach a determination that I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And from what I have seen so far, there is 
no explanation for how an unknown third party would have been able to access Miss Hs 
tablet, obtain her security credentials to be able to log into her online banking and also verify 
the setting up of new payees with OTPs that were sent to a separate device (that being 
Miss Hs mobile phone) unless shed allowed them to do so or been directly involved in 
making the payments. Of all the possible scenarios, on balance, this is the most likely 
explanation for how these payments were made  so I cant say ClearBank by treating the 
payments in dispute as authorised and holding Miss H responsible for them has acted 
unfairly. I realise that this is a very difficult message to give, and Id like to assure Miss H that 
this is not a decision that I have reached lightly, but it is what the available evidence leads 
me to conclude.
Miss H has also provided reasons for why she believes ClearBank ought to have identified 
the disputed payments as unusual and out of character. I acknowledge the point Miss H is 
trying to make but her claim isnt that the fraudulent party tricked her into making the 
payments or into sharing the OTPs where it could reasonably be concluded that an 
intervention by ClearBank and appropriate warnings wouldve broken the spell and brought 
the scam to light. Here Miss Hs claim is that the payments were unauthorised. And by her 
own admission, she has said that even a text wouldve put her on notice. And, as Ive 
concluded above that Miss H most likely did receive the text messages containing the OTPs, 
even if I thought ClearBank ought to have intervened I cant fairly conclude that it wouldve 
made a difference here.           I know the text messages containing the OTPs which were used to set up the new payees 
are a point of great contention for Miss H. I know that she believes if ClearBank had sought 
evidence from her phone provider earlier it would have been able to confirm exactly what 
had happened, and the information it wouldve been able to obtain wouldve supported her 
version of events  that being that shed not received the text messages containing the 
OTPs. Ive thought about what Miss H has said but I dont think it was unreasonable for 
ClearBank to rely on the information it had available when reaching its decision to decline 
her fraud claim. It rightly, did offer Miss H the opportunity to provide anything further to 
support her claim and were willing to review matters if further evidence was produced. I think 
its important for me to explain that ordinarily in circumstances such as these, where there is 
a dispute about the receipt of security text messages, account providers such as ClearBank 
are not responsible for, or expected to, gather information from their customers phone 
provider. And even if they were (which to be clear is not what Im saying) and failed to do so, 
as the information is no longer available it wouldnt be fair of me to speculate on what it may 
or may not have confirmed. Nor would such a failure alone be a basis upon which it would 
be fair to direct ClearBank to provide a refund for the payments in dispute. 
I also note Miss H has shared newspaper articles that she believes are relevant to her 
complaint and a basis upon which ClearBank should reimburse her loss. One of the articles 
talks about possible future regulatory changes that would see fraud victims who are tricked 
into sending their funds online reimbursed within 48 hours. The other refers to a voluntary 
code (the code) under which victims of fraud can be reimbursed. I appreciate Miss H would 
like to do all she can to recover the funds she says have been lost as a result of fraud, but 
Im not persuaded that the content of either article is applicable to the circumstances of her 
case. I say this because both; the proposed rule changes and the code require the disputed 
payment to have been made by the victim  so an authorised payment. Miss Hs claim is 
that she did not make the disputed payments. Besides the rule changes referred to are 
currently only a proposal and have not come into effect, so even if they were applicable 
there wouldnt be a basis upon which I could ask ClearBank to reimburse Miss H. And 
ClearBank are not a signatory of the code  so this is not a relevant consideration here. 
Ive thought about ClearBanks actions on receipt of notification of fraud, and I can see that 
its records show that emails were sent to the recipient banks on the same day that Miss H 
reported the alleged fraud. Unfortunately, the responses that ClearBank received were that 
no funds remained. So Im satisfied ClearBank took appropriate steps to assist Miss H in 
trying to recover her money.    
And finally, for completeness Ive considered, and think, that the £75 compensatory award 
that ClearBank offered for the impact of the service failings whilst investigating Miss Hs 
claim is fair. So, if Miss H changes her mind and decides that she would like to accept this, 
she should contact ClearBank directly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint 
against ClearBank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman