DRN-1999376
The complaint
Mr Y complains about an entry National Westminster Bank Plc made about him on a fraud 
prevention database, in connection with a mortgage application he made.
What happened
Mr Y applied to NatWest, via a broker, for a mortgage in 2017. NatWest refused his 
application. He managed to get a mortgage via another lender.
Recently, Mr Y has applied for finance from another bank in respect of another matter. The 
application was refused, and following the refusal Mr Y became aware NatWest had 
recorded information about him on a fraud prevention database in 2017. Mr Y made a 
subject access request to the database and learned that NatWest had concerns about the 
income hed declared on his application.
Mr Y now complains about NatWest. He says it wont agree to remove the marker  or tell 
him why it was put on. He doesnt think its fair he cant explain any misunderstanding when 
he doesnt know what it is. He says the marker has had a significant impact on him. Its 
prevented him accessing government-backed loans intended to help those affected by the 
coronavirus pandemic, so is causing him significant financial difficulty. 
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly, so Mr Y asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a mortgage application is made, NatWest will consider the application. It takes into 
account the evidence thats been provided as part of the application process. But it also 
carries out its own checks to confirm that information and try to verify what its been told for 
itself independently.
Every mortgage lender does much the same thing. There are different checks carried out 
across the industry, and precisely what checks NatWest carries out are commercially 
sensitive and confidential. 
In this case, despite the checks it carried out NatWest wasnt able to verify what Mr Y had 
told it about the income he received. It had concerns about differences between what Mr Y 
had declared as his income and his bank statements. Mr Y has told us about his 
employment history  which isnt the same as the history he gave at the time of the 
application. And NatWest also had concerns about the documents themselves. 
Taking all of that into account, NatWest considered that it had sufficient concerns to justify 
the report it made to the fraud prevention database. Ive considered what it said about that. 
Ive borne in mind the databases principles for its members  which set out the standards it 
expects when a report is made, and which are publicly available on its website  and Im 
satisfied that the outcome of NatWests checks meant that it acted reasonably in making the 
report. 
Ive taken into account what Mr Y has said about the problems the marker has since caused 
him  especially regarding his recent applications for coronavirus related lending. I recognise 
its a difficult time for him, as it is for many people. And I understand the consequences for 
him of the marker. But what I have to decide is whether NatWest acted fairly in adding the 
marker  and I think it did. As a result, I dont think it would be fair to ask it to remove it now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman