DRN-4061791
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lex Autolease Ltd didnt provide the service it should have done after 
her hire agreement came to the end of its initial term.
What happened
Ms C entered into a three-year hire agreement with Lex Autolease. The finance agreement 
was due to end in June 2020 when the country was in lockdown due to COVID 19. Ms C 
says that in May 2020, she hadnt been contacted about the end of her lease and so she 
contacted the garage and Lex Autolease. She says she was told that Lex Autolease would 
be in touch. However, in September 2020, Ms C was contacted by Lex Autolease to say her 
agreement had been placed on an informal extension and she could request a formal 
extension or vehicle collection. Ms C wasnt happy about her agreement being place on an 
informal extension without her agreeing to this and after difficulties in sending and receiving 
the formal extension contract, she raised a complaint.
Lex Autolease issued its final response letter on 11 January 2021. Ms C says that the final 
response was uploaded to a portal which when she tried to view it, only showed a blank 
page. Ms C then began to receive invoices which she thought were incorrect. Ms C says she 
tried to contact Lex Autolease without success and then in March 2022 received an email 
from another party asking to discuss her finance agreement. She received further emails and 
voicemails about this and so she called Lex Autolease and was told the vehicle was going to 
be repossessed. Ms C raised these additional concerns with Lex Autolease in March 2022 
and Lex Autolease issued a second final response letter on 17 May 2022.
In its final response letter dated 17 May 2022, Lex Autolease said that a final response was 
issued on Ms Cs previous complaint, and it wouldnt look to reinvestigate this. In regard to 
Ms Cs comments about not responding to emails it said it had tried to contact Ms C by 
letter, phone and email and had responded to her emails within a reasonable timeframe. It 
said that emails sent from its secure portal are encrypted and require a password to be read. 
It said the password can at times be required to be reset and it upheld this element of Ms Cs 
complaint. It said it hadnt any calls logged between February 2021 and January 2022 for the 
number it had on file for Ms C. It noted the stress calls and texts about arrears on an account 
can have but said that as payment hadnt been made it was reasonable it tried to make 
contact. Due to the partial uphold Lex Autolease said it would send Ms C a cheque for £25.  
Ms C referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
explained that the issues covered in the January 2021 final response letter were out of 
jurisdiction for this service. He considered the merits of the issues responded to in the May 
2022 final response letter. 
Our investigator looked at the correspondence between Ms C and Lex Autolease and said it 
appeared that certain emails hadnt been responded to. He thought that had responses been 
provided this could have mitigated the build-up of arrears. Because of this he thought Lex 
Autolease should pay Ms C £100 for the stress and inconvenience caused. He noted the 
stress caused by the correspondence about the arrears but said that Lex Autolease had a 
responsibility to inform Ms C of the situation on her account. He said that while Ms C was 
still disputing the amounts she owed he thought it reasonable she would have made some 
payment towards the outstanding amounts. Because of this, and the arrears that had built on 
the account, he didnt think Lex Autolease had done anything wrong by taking further action. 
Ms C didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she was told that the invoices were 
under investigation and once resolved would be void and she would then be able to pay the 
formal contract rate which was why she didnt make any payments. She said she kept 
chasing to try to get a resolution on the arrears so that she could make payments, but she 
didnt get a response. Ms C said she didnt object to the arrears letters but instead the 
threatening behaviour of the collection company and that Lex Autolease didnt inform her 
that her account was being passed to a third party. She said given the length of time this 
situation was ongoing, the numerous errors made by Lex Autolease and the inaction and 
incorrect information provided in response to her requests, compensation of more than £100 
should be paid.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision relates to the issues covered in Lex Autoleases final response letter dated 
May 2022. Ms C has raised several concerns about the service she has been provided with 
by Lex Autolease following the extension of her lease agreement. While I havent addressed 
each point in detail, I can assure Ms C that I have considered all the information provided in 
making my decision.
I can see the situation on Ms Cs account has caused her stress and inconvenience over an 
extended period of time and I appreciate that she doesnt think the £100 additional 
compensation recommended by our investigator is sufficient. I have taken Ms Cs comments 
about this into consideration but in this case, I think that the recommended additional £100 is 
reasonable. I have set out my reasons for this below.
Having looked through the copies of correspondence provided by Ms C, I can see that she 
was having to chase for replies and that the responses received didnt always provide a 
clear answer to her questions. I do not find this is the service that should have been provided 
and had clearer information been given in a timely way this could have resolved this issue 
sooner. Because of this I think it reasonable that Lex Autolease pay Ms C compensation.
I have considered the upset and inconvenience that has been caused and while I can see 
Ms C was trying to get information about the amounts she owed, I can also see that she 
stopped making payments. During this time letters were sent to her advising of the arrears 
on her account and while I note Ms Cs comments about clarifying the amounts due and 
thinking the invoices may be void, she was aware that she was required to make payments 
for the use of the car, and she could have made the payments that she considered correct at the time. This would have reduced the build-up of arrears and the associated actions. 
I understand that Ms C was upset by what she considered threatening behaviour by the 
collections company. As Ms C was in arrears on her account it is reasonable that Lex 
Autolease will contact her about this, and I cannot say it is wrong for it to use a third party to 
assist with this. I cannot hold Lex Autolease responsible for the service provided by the third 
party, but I think Lex Autolease could have done more to explain why Ms C was receiving 
calls from another party when she asked about this.   
Overall, I do not find that Lex Autolease provided the service it should have. But I also think 
that Ms C could have done more to mitigate this situation by continuing to make payments 
towards her account given she still had use of the car. Therefore, taking everything into 
account I think it reasonable that Lex Autolease pay Ms C £100 (additional to the £25 
previously paid) for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
Putting things right
Lex Autolease should pay Ms C a further £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused..
My final decision
My final decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman