DRN-4176882
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the total loss settlement esure Insurance Limited trading as 
Sheilas Wheels paid and the poor service he received when he made a claim under his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in an incident with another car in June 2022. He reported the incident to 
his insurer, esure. 
esure settled the claim by paying Mr R a total loss settlement for his car. Mr R was unhappy 
with the settlement sum as he thought it was too low. He provided copy emails he sent to 
esure asking for further information about how to claim for uninsured losses and asked for 
details of the third party insurer (TPI), but he says he didnt receive a response. 
Our Investigator thought esures total loss settlement sum was fair. But he thought from the 
information Mr R had provided that he had been inconvenienced by not having a response to 
his requests for further information. For this he recommended esure pay Mr R £100 
compensation. The Investigator passed on details of the TPI from esure to Mr R so that he 
could pursue them directly for uninsured losses. 
esure agreed. Mr R didnt agree. He provided adverts for similar cars for sale online which 
were priced at higher than the settlement sum esure paid. He raised questions about his 
renewal premium, how the claim had been settled and about the investigation into liability. 
Our Investigator explained that the questions Mr R asked were not part of the complaint he 
raised with esure - and so if Mr R wanted to raise new complaints with esure he was free to 
do so. 
The Investigator maintained his view that the way esure reached a valuation for Mr Rs car 
was fair and in line with our approach. 
Mr R disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation, but we can look at whether an insurer has reached its decision 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Rs policy with esure says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of his car at the time of loss: market value being the price a customer would reasonably pay 
for a similar car. We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the 
most reliable way of deciding a fair valuation is to look at the main motor trade guides. They 
provide valuations based on the average likely selling price for a car of the same make, 
model, age, condition and mileage as Mr Rs for the month of loss. 
esure provided screenshots of the guides it relied on when reaching a total loss settlement 
sum. And having looked at the adverts Mr R has provided of the same make of his car a 
year after the incident, Im satisfied that the sum esure has paid as a total loss settlement is 
within the range of the guides and the adverts, considering the actual mileage and condition 
of his car at the time of loss. esure made a deduction of £274 (quoted as £294 by esure in its 
final response letter, but this means there is an anomaly of £20 in the final total loss 
settlement sum) for pre-accident damage and provided photos of the area of damage to 
support its decision. I understand Mr R doesnt agree as he says due to the age of the car, it 
is expected to have some signs of wear and tear. But I dont think esures decision to make 
the deduction was unreasonable as this is damage outside of wear and tear. And it applied 
over a 50% reduction in the estimate of costs to repair this damage from the settlement sum, 
which I think is a fair outcome. 
From copy emails provided by Mr R, and esures file notes, I think there were times when 
esure didnt provide a response to Mr R when he asked for further information about his 
claim. While this hasnt prevented Mr R from taking the action he wishes to take, I think 
esure should have provided a better service in its communication with Mr R and for the 
inconvenience caused, I think it should pay £100 compensation to Mr R. 
I appreciate that Mr R doesnt agree. He says he has spent several hours attempting to gain 
information from esure without success. And he says the financial loss hes incurred as a 
result is far more than £100. 
But this sum is in line with similar awards we give for poor service such as Mr R received. 
And as Ive said, I think esure has paid a fair total loss settlement to him as the market value 
for his car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited 
trading as Sheilas Wheels to pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service during the claim. 
esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman