DRN-2273269
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc repeatedly increased the credit limit on her 
credit card. 
What happened
Miss D opened a credit card account with Barclays in September 2013. It had a credit limit of 
£1,000. Over the next few years the credit limit was increased by Barclays as follows:
March 2014  increased to £1,500
October 2014  increased to £3,000
June 2016  increased to £4,500
January 2017  increased to £6,000
October 2017  increased to £7,500
June 2018  increased to £11,500
Barclays initiated each of the credit limit increases by carrying out a credit check to assess 
affordability. Miss D was then notified of Barclays intention to increase her credit limit and 
she was given 30 days to opt out if she did not want it. Miss D did not opt out of the 
increases.
In August 2018, Miss Ds credit limit was reduced to £8,500 at her request. In February 
2019, the credit limit was reduced to £5,500, again at Miss Ds request.
Miss D contacted Barclays in 2019 to complain, as she was unhappy with the interest she 
had been charged and the credit limit increases on her account. Around this time, Miss D 
went over her credit limit a couple of times.  Barclays confirmed that the interest had been 
charged correctly and that the credit limit increases were in line with its policies. It did not 
uphold her complaint. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it stopped interest charges for 
three months and refunded some charges.
Miss D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
Barclays had carried out proper checks when it approved Miss D for the credit card and also 
when it increased Miss Ds credit limit. 
As Miss D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the rules that banks must follow when 
theyre deciding whether to increase someones credit limit. This means Barclays must 
undertake a creditworthiness assessment. This involves looking at how the increase might 
adversely impact the customers financial situation. To do this it should take into account the 
information it already has about the customer, the customers ability to make payments as 
they fall due and information from credit reference agencies.
Barclays has provided evidence of the checks carried out when it increased Miss Ds credit 
limit. As part of this, it looked at the information it already held, Miss Ds history of making 
payments and her credit file. Ive taken a detailed look at Miss Ds spending on her credit 
card and can see that each month she made at least the minimum payment and, in a 
number of months, more than the minimum payment, with the exception of paying only part 
of the minimum payment towards the end of 2019. 
I can also see that in the first three years Miss D had the credit card that she went over her 
credit limit twice. However, she then promptly brought the card back below the credit limit. In 
both instances, four months later, her credit limit was increased by £1,500. After that, as 
Miss Ds credit limit continued to increase, she always stayed within her credit limit, often 
using only part of the credit available to her, she always made the minimum payment and 
occasionally made some large lump sum payments. So, I dont think that this was likely to 
indicate to Barclays that Miss D would face financial difficulties if her credit limit was 
increased.
Ive also looked at Miss Ds credit file. This shows that she had a range of financial products 
over the relevant period. The credit file indicates that although there was an occasional issue 
with making payments, the majority of the time she kept up with payments across the 
financial products and that she seemed to manage her financial situation well. On the basis 
of the credit file, I think that it was reasonable for Barclays to assess that increasing Miss Ds 
credit limit was unlikely to cause difficulty.
I asked Miss D about her financial situation. She said that when her credit limit was £1,500 
her financial situation was stable and she was able to pay off her credit card. However, when 
her credit limit increased, it got out of control. Miss D said that if Barclays had carried out 
more checks, it would have found that her income and expenditure meant that the increases 
to her credit limit were likely to be unaffordable.  
Miss D also provided this service with a breakdown of expenditure. This showed that after 
she met each of her financial commitments, including making payments towards this credit 
card, she had a disposable income of less than £100 per month. Miss D also said that in 
order to pay off a significant balance on her credit card, she had to use money from a house 
sale.
Ive thought about all of the above carefully. As Ive already said, looking at the information 
available to Barclays, I dont think the information that it considered was a clear indicator that 
Miss D was likely to face financial difficulties if her credit limit was increased. Although I 
accept that Miss D used a large amount of her income to meet her various financial 
commitments, this does appear to have been affordable to her. I say this despite being 
aware that this left her with only a small amount of spare money at the end of each month 
and that the payments to Barclays still often left her with a large balance to pay. But, I cant 
see that there was any strong indication that Miss D would struggle with the amount of credit 
offered by Barclays, including in the context of the total amount of credit available to her.
Im also aware that Miss D said she was only able to pay off a lump sum from her credit card 
due to a house sale. I accept that from Miss Ds perspective this was an indicator of financial 
difficulty. However, money from a house sale is a legitimate source of money to pay towards 
a debt. Using it for that purpose doesnt specifically indicate financial difficulty and I dont 
think that Miss Ds reasons for making a lump sum payment, or the source of the money, 
would have been apparent to Barclays. Although Miss D saw it as an indication of financial 
difficulty, I think Barclays could have seen it as an ability to pay. Both are reasonable 
positions based on the information available to each party at the time.In my view, the combination of the information that Barclays already held about Miss D, her 
history of making payments, both to Barclays and to other credit providers, and the 
information held by credit reference agencies indicated that she managed her finances well 
and didnt suggest that it would be irresponsible to provide further credit to her.  I think the 
total amount of credit available to Miss D was high relative to her income but, on balance, in 
the context of all the information that Barclays considered, it wasnt a strong indicator that it 
would be irresponsible to increase her credit limit.
Im also aware that had Barclays asked more questions that it might have made a different 
decision based on how Miss D described her wider financial position to this service. The 
level of information that we would expect a financial provider to look at should be 
proportionate and based on the individual circumstances. In this instance, I dont think the 
information that Barclays considered clearly indicated that it should ask more questions or 
that if it did so that it could materially affect its decision.
I am also mindful that in 2019 Miss D contacted Barclays to explain that she was now in 
financial difficulties with this credit card. This included, around the time of the complaint, 
Miss D going over her credit limit and failing to make a full minimum payment. So, Ive also 
considered how Barclays responded to this. 
Where someone says that they are in financial difficulties, a financial business should deal 
with this positively and sympathetically. In Miss Ds case, Barclays took a range of steps 
including stopping the interest on her account for three months, refunding some charges and 
opting her out of automatic credit limit increases in the future. Miss D also entered into a 
repayment plan with Barclays. On that basis, I think that Barclays took reasonable steps in 
response to Miss D telling it about her financial difficulties.
So, looking at this case as a whole, Im sympathetic to Miss Ds concerns about Barclays 
increasing her credit limit but, on balance, I currently think that Barclays carried out 
appropriate checks and that these were proportionate to Miss Ds financial situation and the 
level of credit offered. The charges and interest on the account were also in line with the 
terms and conditions. When Miss D contacted Barclays to explain her financial difficulties, I 
think that it responded to these positively and sympathetically. As a result, I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint and dont think that Barclays needs to do anything further, although it 
should continue to deal with Miss D in a positive and sympathetic manner.
Im aware that Miss D also had concerns about Barclays accepting her for a second credit 
card. However, that is outside the scope of this complaint, which focusses on the credit limit 
increases on the first credit card, and would need to be considered as a separate complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 3 October 2020.
Neither party provided any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision not to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman