DRN-4309406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt provide the service it should have 
when they were trying to make a payment for a car. 
What happened
On 28 January 2023, Mr and Mrs G attempted a debit card payment to pay for a new car. 
The card machine lost contact and as no authorisation receipt was produced the transaction 
was attempted again. This time the card was rejected. Mr G contacted the bank and was told 
the payment had gone through, but the garage told him it hadnt received the money. Mr G 
called the bank on the following Monday and Tuesday and was told his balance amount and 
that his available balance was around £18,000 lower due to the pending payment. He visited 
his branch and was told the same. 
On Wednesday, Mr G checked again with his bank and was told his available balance was 
now the same as his actual balance as the pending payment had been returned. He says he 
was told he could do another card transaction for the car. Mr G says this was confirmed to 
him by another agent and in branch. He returned to the garage and paid for the car.
Mr and Mrs G then received a text saying that the bank had agreed an unarranged overdraft 
on their account. They didnt know why they had received this message. Mr G phoned HSBC 
and was told that two payments had been made to the garage. He was then told that one of 
the payments would be returned to his account and a dispute raised. Mr G asked how this 
could have happened but he didnt feel he was given a satisfactory response and raised a 
complaint. He said HSBC didnt respond fully to his complaint points and he didnt think the 
compensation paid was enough given the upset this issue had caused. 
HSBC said that the payment Mr G made on 28 January was processed correctly and the 
amount was showing in his account as authorised with the payment pending. It said Mr G 
made several calls saying the garage had cancelled the payment and he raised a dispute 
resulting in funds being credited to his account. Mr G then visited a branch after the disputed 
funds had been applied to his account and was advised of his available balance. Based on 
this he attempted the transaction again but at the same time the original transaction was 
also made. HSBC didnt accept that it had done anything wrong but noted that Mr G had said 
he had been caused distress and inconvenience due to the calls he needed to make, visits 
to the branch and also the upset this issue had caused. Because of this it credited his 
account with £150. 
Our investigator noted that HSBCs terms and conditions state that it can provide an 
unarranged overdraft without advance notice and while the duplicate transaction wasnt 
intended, she said that HSBC wouldnt have been aware of this. She noted the expenses 
Mr G had incurred in dealing with the issues (calls and visits to branch) and also thought that 
HSBC could have been clearer in its communication with Mr G about what was happening. 
But noting when the issue was resolved she thought that the £150 compensation was 
sufficient.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators view. They didnt accept that their points 
had been addressed nor that the distress this issue had caused had been taken into 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided detailed submissions in support of his case. I appreciate the time he has 
spent on this, and I do not underestimate the upset this issue has caused. I would like to 
reassure Mr and Mrs G that I have considered all the evidence that has been provided but 
my decision focuses on what I consider to be the key complaint points.
Mr G has asked why the bank allowed their account to go overdrawn without any 
consultation. I can understand why this was of such concern, but I cannot say that HSBC did 
anything wrong by allowing the account to go into an unarranged overdraft. The account 
terms and conditions allow for unarranged overdrafts and explain when these can occur and 
while I appreciate this was caused by a duplicate transaction, I cannot say that HSBC would 
have been aware of that. So, in regard to this point I do not find I can say that HSBC did 
anything wrong by allowing the account to go into an unarranged overdraft. 
Linked to the above point is Mr Gs question about why a second transaction to the garage 
was allowed given insufficient funds in their account and why a transaction was actioned 
several days after the payment was initially made.
HSBC has explained that the issue arose as the first transaction Mr G made was authorised 
and then a further transaction was made resulting in the payment being taken twice. I note 
Mr Gs comments about this not being the garages fault and him considering it to be a 
mistake by the bank. However, as the initial payment was authorised, and Mr G had been 
told this at the time I can also accept the banks position that it didnt do anything wrong by 
allowing both transactions to take place. That said, when Mr G contacted the bank a couple 
of days after the initial payment had been authorised, but the garage still hadnt received the 
funds, he was led to believe that this transaction was no longer pending and he was fine to 
go ahead with another transaction. This is why he made the second transaction which 
resulted in the issues with the unarranged overdraft. So, while HSBC may not have been 
wrong to put through the two transactions, it hadnt provided Mr G with clear information 
regarding his account and that the transaction was still pending. Because of this I find it 
didnt provide Mr G with the service it should have. 
I understand that this issue has caused Mr and Mrs G distress and inconvenience. I have 
listened to the calls provided between Mr G and the bank and I can hear how upset he is 
about the account being allowed to go into an unarranged overdraft. Given this I think it 
reasonable that they are paid compensation.
On the call on 3 February, Mr G is reassured that the funds have been returned to his 
account and a dispute raised. I can see from Mr and Mrs Gs account statement the two 
debited amounts and the return of one of these. He is further told that due to the unarranged 
overdraft being cleared no charges will be applied to his account. So, while I can appreciate 
he had to spend time on calls resolving the issues, and I can hear the distress the 
uncertainty around the overdraft caused, I also find that HSBC did act in a timely way to 
address the issue and prevent any additional costs arising. 
HSBC has paid Mr and Mrs G £150 compensation. I know that they do not think this is 
enough. I understand that they made visits to the branch and also calls to the bank and I 
have taken into consideration that this issue caused them a great deal of distress and inconvenience at the time. But I have also noted that there were no charges applied to their 
account and the money was returned in a timely way. Given this I find the £150 
compensation awarded by HSBC is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further in 
resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman