DRN-3723732
The complaint
Mrs N complains Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly settled a claim shes made on her 
buildings insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here. 
Mrs N owns a property rented out to tenants, insured by a buildings insurance policy 
underwritten by Ageas. She reported an escape of water at the property to Ageas in 
October 2020. A loss adjuster was appointed to manage the claim.
In November 2020, the tenant decided to leave the property which Mrs N said was 
due to the damage. 
Remedial works were agreed. Mrs N thought this work took too long. She made 
several complaints about issues related to it and Ageas handling of the claim, some 
of which have been dealt with under another complaint considered by this Service.
Mrs N says she wasnt able to re-let the property until November 2021 as Ageas took 
longer than it should have done to complete the work. She says shes lost out on rent 
of approximately £5,600 because of this and wants Ageas to cover this together with 
the council tax she still had to pay over the time the property was un-let. 
Mrs N complained to Ageas but it declined to cover the rent as it didnt consider the 
property to have been uninhabitable and that was a requirement for the policy cover 
to engage. It did though offer £50 in recognition of its service failings. 
Mrs N raised a complaint with this Service but our Investigator didnt think Ageas 
should cover all the rent Mrs N says shed lost.  He thought the property would have 
been habitable and the tenant had decided to move out before the reinstatement 
works commenced. But he thought Ageas should pay one months rent in recognition 
of the avoidable delays in its complaint handling subject to supporting evidence. 
Ageas accepted this recommendation but Mrs N didnt and asked an Ombudsman to 
reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on a policy, the onus is on the consumer to show the claim is 
covered under the policy terms. The terms of an insurance policy set out what the 
parties can expect from it. Im unlikely to tell an insurer to pay a claim if its not 
covered under the policy terms. Ill be considering this complaint in light of this 
together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Ageas has highlighted the policy wording relating to loss of rent cover, which Ive 
detailed below.
What is covered:
Loss of Rentif the Property is damaged by any cause under Section 1A 
and, as a result, it cannot be lived in, We will pay:
(a) For Your loss of rent; and 
(b) Any reasonable accommodation expenses until the Property is ready to 
be lived in again
Its accepted the property was damaged by a cause under Section 1A so I dont have 
to make a decision on this. The key thing for me to consider is whether the property 
was uninhabitable  distinct from being more difficult to rent out - as a result of the 
damage caused.
The damage was to the dining room and a bedroom where the leaking radiator was 
situated. The loss adjuster said the extent of the damage didnt amount to the 
property being uninhabitable. It referred the issue to its technical team for a second 
opinion and they agreed. Mrs N didnt agree with this as there were two rooms in the 
property that couldnt be used. 
The policy doesnt define what leads to a property being uninhabitable, broadly 
though, this Service would say this applies if theres no kitchen, bathroom or toilet 
facilities. Ive seen nothing which persuades me this was the case with Mrs Ns 
property after the incident happened or at the time the tenant decided to leave the 
property.
I acknowledge the photos supplied by Mrs N after the property was dried out and 
strip-out works were completed, early in 2021, do show amongst other things, the 
front room with bare, unplastered walls and no carpet and electrical cabling hanging 
from the ceiling. While I wouldnt disagree this would be unsightly, Im not satisfied 
this would amount to it being uninhabitable. And I have to keep in mind here in any 
case, this was some months after the tenant had already decided to leave.
Mrs N says she wouldnt have been able to rent out the property again given the 
damage that had occurred following the escape of water. While it may have been 
more difficult to rent out, Ive not been given anything which shows Mrs N attempted 
to rent out the property again after her previous tenant left but was unable to. But 
even if the property had been more difficult to rent out, the policy specifies the 
property must be uninhabitable, and for the reasons given Im not satisfied it was. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the property has been shown to have been uninhabitable 
at the time the tenant decided to leave the property so it follows I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to direct Ageas to cover the rent Mrs N says she lost. Im also 
not going to be directing Ageas to cover the council tax as this isnt covered under 
the policy, and Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to direct Ageas to 
cover this, especially as this seemingly would have been payable in any event.
Ageas accepts its claim handling could have been better and the works completed 
quicker and I agree. Its already paid £50 compensation under this complaint but I 
think it needs to do more. Ageas has now agreed to pay Mrs N the equivalent of a 
months lost rent in compensation to recognise its mistakes. Having thought about this carefully and everything Ive said above, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable 
sum in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs N the equivalent of one months rent subject to the provision of supporting 
documentation showing the previous tenancy agreement and amount received under the 
agreement.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs N accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman