DRN-4045882
The complaint
X complains that NewDay Ltd led her to believe her claim to reject a faulty item of furniture 
had been accepted.
What happened
I want to assure X, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent 
thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But Im going 
to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Both parties have provided detailed timelines of events, but for the 
purposes of this decision I will keep my summary of events brief.
In December 2021 X purchased a sofa and wardrobe online from a company I will call F. X 
considered the sofa was not of suitable quality and had concerns about the wardrobe  X 
says that it had marks and the drawers were difficult to open and close. It seems X was 
initially concerned about the sofa and only sought to return the wardrobe several months 
later. Initially X had mentioned the issues with the wardrobe sought advice on fixing them. X 
spoke to F and was unable to resolve the issues and so X contacted NewDay. F had offered 
to take the sofa back, but only to give a partial refund.
X asked that it consider a S 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 claim. It made a chargeback and 
this was accepted by F for the sofa. This was collected and a refund made. X spoke to 
NewDay and was assured that the transaction had been dealt with and a refund would be 
made. X quite reasonably presumed this applied to both the sofa and the wardrobe, but this 
was not the case.
NewDay advised X to speak to F, but the relationship had broken down. NewDay then failed 
to return a call and in April X called again to find out what was happening. NewDay 
responded to the complaint and accepted it had failed to return a call and had given 
conflicting and inconsistent information. It offered X £100 compensation.
At this point NewDay raised a S 75 claim. It said it was unable to uphold the claim without an 
independent report. No report has been provided.
X brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. X said that NewDay had implied the dispute had been 
settled and so X had not pursued it further. NewDay had not been as helpful as it should and 
this had caused distress.
Our investigator thought the compensation of £100 was fair. He explained the relevant rules 
for both chargebacks and S 75 claims. He said that as far as the wardrobe was concerned 
there as insufficient evidence to say that it was defective at the point of sale.
X didnt agree and said that he had made some errors of a factual nature. X reiterated the 
point that NewDay had suggested the matter had been resolved including the issue of the 
wardrobe. X felt the wardrobe was of unsatisfactory quality and wanted a refund.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
There are several matters I need to consider in this decision. However, I am addressing a 
complaint against NewDay and so I cannot deal with any issue which is specific to F such as 
the claim the wardrobe had been stolen. I have no jurisdiction over F.
I have to look at the handling of the whole issue by NewDay and the Section 75 claim. 
Considering the handling of the matter I think there were two things NewDay could have 
done better. One was return the call it had promised to make. It has acknowledged this and 
accepts it failed to make the call and the matter was only revived when X called it. I agree 
that compensation is due to this oversight.
The second and more fundamental point is the confusion as to what was meant when X was 
told the dispute had been resolved. I can appreciate that the call handler may have 
misunderstood what had been agreed and have given X the impression that all was settled. 
It is reasonable for X to have assumed that a full refund would be made. X was only made 
aware this was not the case after calling back having waited for the call that NewDay failed 
to make. I also think some compensation is due for the lack of clarity.
Section 75 Claim
On the matter of the S 75 claim I am not persuaded that NewDay was wrong to reject it 
without independent evidence. I have reviewed email exchanges between X and F and have 
noted that it was suggested by X that the marks or some of them could have been caused by 
the wardrobe being carried upstairs. I note it apparently got stuck and X has acknowledged 
that some or possibly all of the damage was caused then. In an email to F on 24 December 
X asked how this damage could be repaired. X later asked about the sticking drawers and 
was advised to ensure it was level and if needed to apply candle wax or similar. I have not 
seen any response to this and I cannot say if that was tried by X.
I am also aware that the wardrobe is made from timber reclaimed from old buildings with a 
rustic washed finish so some marks are to be expected. However, without an independent 
report I cannot say that at the time of delivery the wardrobe was not of satisfactory quality.
F has also disputed that the wardrobe wasnt of suitable quality, but it did accept the return 
of the sofa although it initially pushed back on this. That would indicate a willingness on its 
part to recognise when goods were not of suitable quality. Overall I cannot say that NewDay 
was wrong to reject the Section 75 claim.
Compensation
I have noted NewDays offer of £100, but I think this does not take into account the full 
impact of the misleading information given to X. There was an expectation that the matter 
was settled and I can appreciate the disappointment when X discovered that the claim in 
respect of the wardrobe had not been settled. Therefore I think the total compensation 
should be increased to £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience suffered.
Neither party accepted the provisional decision. NewDay said the declaration form it sent to 
X makes it clear that if the merchant challenges the disputed claim the sum will be re-debited 
to the account. It said it had tried to contact X regarding the merchants challenge but had 
been unsuccessful. It felt the sum of £100 was sufficient.
X said her complaint wasnt that her claim had been rejected, but that she had been told it 
had been accepted and that she didnt need to return the wardrobe. She said she hadnt 
sought to return the wardrobe until some months later because she had been told not to return it. She took exception to the suggestion that she had presumed the rejection applied 
to both the sofa and wardrobe since she had been told that it did and so no presumption was 
required.
She also said that the S 75 claim had not been rejected by NewDay as the matter had been 
referred to this service before it reached a conclusion. She noted the £100 offered by 
NewDay was in relation to a failure to return a call. She also said that she had not been told 
her S 75 claim had been rejected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with X that the main issue was the misleading information given by NewDay 
regarding the claim about the furniture and I have amended the complaint details to reflect 
this. However, this is what I had addressed in my provisional decision. I note X takes issue 
with my use of the word presumed in my decision. I have not suggested that this implies 
any fault on the part of X. In the original complaint X said it was reasonable for her to 
assume that her claim had been upheld.  Both NewDay and I accept that the information 
given to her was wrong and so she was led to believe both items of furniture had been 
treated as unsatisfactory. 
I have not been given a recording of the call, but I do not consider I need to listen to it as it is 
not in dispute that the information given to X was misleading. Incorrect information was given 
and this caused X distress and inconvenience. NewDay made a chargeback and this was 
rejected by the merchant and so it did as it had explained on the claims form and re-debited 
the sum due. 
Because misleading information was given I can see that X had raised expectations and 
when it was made clear that the rejection of the wardrobe had not been accepted this 
caused her distress and inconvenience. That does not mean NewDay should be required to 
forgo the cost of the wardrobe. It made a mistake and X is entitled to compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience she has suffered. I remain of the view that £200 is 
fair and reasonable. 
On the matter of the S 75 claim I have reviewed the exchange of correspondence between X 
and NewDay in the summer of 2022 and I note NewDay has said it is willing to consider the 
claim further if X submits an independent report. At this point it has said that it is unable to 
uphold the claim in the absence of an independent report. In my provisional decision I 
agreed that it was reasonable for NewDay to conclude there was insufficient evidence to 
allow the claim to be upheld.
As such I will make no finding on the merits of the claim and leave it to X to decide if this is 
something she wishes to pursue. If both parties are unable to reach agreement on the S 75 
claim it remains open to X to bring a complaint to this service on the S 75 claim, but not on 
the misleading information given regarding the chargeback. 
Putting things right
NewDay should compensate X and consider the S 75 claim if X wishes to pursue it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct NewDay Ltd to pay X £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman