DRN-2533539
The complaint
Miss M complains about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her motor 
insurance claim.
References to Markerstudy include its agents.
What happened
In March 2018, Miss M made a claim on her motor insurance policy with Markerstudy after 
she was in an accident involving another vehicle. 
Markerstudy told the other drivers insurer it believed the other driver was responsible for the 
accident. It asked them to reimburse it for Markerstudys outlay and to reimburse Miss M for 
her excess payment.
 
The other drivers insurer disputed liability. It said it was willing to settle on a 50/50 split 
liability. Markerstudy put this to Miss M, but she said she didnt want to accept it. She didnt 
think she was responsible for the accident. 
There were further discussions between Markerstudy and the other insurer. The other 
insurer later said it held Miss M 100% responsible for the accident and was sending 
dashcam footage to Markerstudy. Miss M asked Markerstudy to share this with her.
In February 2020, Miss M complained to Markerstudy about the length of time it was taking 
to resolve her claim and its communication with her. She hadnt received the dashcam 
footage shed requested over a month before. She said her insurance premiums had been 
increased to over £200 a month because of an error made by Markerstudy.
Markerstudy said its panel solicitors had advised it to accept the split liability offer from the 
other drivers insurer. It understood Miss M was unhappy with the offer. The other drivers 
insurer said it had footage of the incident and Markerstudy was awaiting a copy so it could 
review it further. It acknowledged there were unnecessary delays throughout Miss Ms claim 
and there was also a lack of communication meaning Miss M had to contact Markerstudy for 
an update. It offered Miss M £300 to compensate her for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
acknowledged Markerstudy wasnt responsible for delays caused by the third party insurer 
and solicitors. But he thought Markerstudy should have done more to try to reduce delays 
and keep Miss M informed. He recommended Markerstudy pay Miss M another £200 in 
addition to the £300 it had previously offered her to compensate her for distress and 
inconvenience caused up to the date it had issued its final response to her complaint.  
Our investigator thought it was fair for Markerstudy to record the claim as fault as it is 
standard industry practice to do so until all outlays of costs are recovered by the insurer.
Markerstudy agreed with our investigators findings and said it was willing to offer Miss M a 
further £200 compensation.
Miss M didnt think the extra £200 was enough to resolve her complaint. She said she would 
be satisfied with a new sum of £400 in compensation but accepting it didnt mean she would 
accept the 50/50 settlement. She didnt feel Markerstudy had fought her corner. 
As Miss M disagrees with our investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
I understand, Miss M raised a second complaint to Markerstudy after she brought her 
complaint to our service. To be clear, Ive only considered whats happened up to 16 April 
2020, which is when Markerstudy issued its final response to Miss Ms first complaint. Any 
concerns relating to Miss Ms second complaint would need to be dealt with separately.
Delays and communication
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Markerstudy has acknowledged that there have been unnecessary delays throughout     
Miss Ms claim and its communication with her should have been better. Its agreed to pay 
Miss M a total of £500 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced from 
the start of the claim until 16 April 2020. So, Ive needed to consider if this is fair. 
Miss Ms claim had been going on for around two years at the time of her complaint, with no 
resolution in sight. This was no doubt frustrating for Miss M, who had also been chasing for 
dashcam footage. I understand there were some technical issues that meant Markerstudy 
wasnt able to view it. But this went on for many months.  
It can often take longer for a claim to be settled where both sides dispute liability as is the 
case here. While some of the delays were beyond Markestudys control, I think it could have 
been more proactive in moving things forward. 
I also think Markerstudys communication with Miss M could have been better. I can see that 
she asked for updates and responses to emails and there were long periods of time where 
she wasnt kept informed of what was happening.
Ive thought carefully about the impact the lack of communication and the delays 
Markerstudy is responsible for has had on Miss M. I know this will be disappointing for    
Miss M, but I think £500 is fair compensation for this.  
Impact of open claim
The policys terms and conditions state that Markerstudy is entitled to take over and conduct 
the defence or settlement of any claim or prosecute any claim in the name of any person 
covered by this insurance. Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, so 
I dont find this unusual. This means its up to Markerstudy (rather than Miss M) to decide whether to defend a claim 
or settle it. When Miss M made her complaint, Markerstudy had yet to decide whether it was 
going to settle the claim or defend it in court. 
Miss M has expressed concerns that her insurance premiums might be higher as a result of 
an ongoing open claim. An open claim (before the claim has been settled) will be recorded 
as a fault claim. Miss M feels strongly that she wasnt responsible for the accident and the 
other driver should be held 100% at fault. So, I can understand why she feels shes having to 
pay extra because of delays in settling the claim. 
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to establish which party is responsible for an 
incident. Its possible that Miss M might not be held responsible if the case goes to court. But 
its also possible that the court might decide that at least some of the fault lies with her. If a 
judge was to decide that Miss M was even 1% responsible for the accident, the claim would 
continue to be recorded as a fault claim because Markerstudy wouldnt be able to recover all 
of its outgoings from the other drivers insurer. Markerstudy has a duty to record accurate 
information on the database that can be viewed by other insurers. 
If Miss Ms claim is settled as non-fault, Id expect Markerstudy to update the insurance 
database and reimburse her for the extra premiums she paid from it being recorded as a 
fault claim. She would also be able to approach her current insurer to request that they 
recalculate their premium based on the claim being non-fault. 
Overall, I think a total of £500 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset Markerstudy has 
caused Miss M for matters relating to this complaint. This includes the £300 Markerstudy 
had already offered Miss M before she brought her complaint to our service.
Putting things right
Markerstudy should pay Miss M £200 in addition to the £300 it had already offered her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman