DRN-1389295
The complaint
Mr A complains Santander UK Plc has delayed in making a refund for two charges it applied 
in error. 
What happened
Mr A had an account with Santander. He ceased to use the account as his main account. 
But he left an unauthorised overdraft balance on the account which Santander tried to 
contact him about. He never replied and so Santander suspended the account. 
Mr A got in touch in August 2019 as he wanted to use the account again as his main 
account.  But as the account was in arrears, as it had an unauthorised overdraft and 
associated charges, Santander would only agree to reinstate it if the outstanding balance 
was cleared. Mr A couldn't afford to clear the balance in one go, as he had just started a new 
job. So Santander agreed a repayment arrangement with him to clear the balance in two 
payments, the first on 30 August and the second on 30 September 2019. It did this by 
allowing Mr A a temporary overdraft, so he wouldn't incur any further unauthorised overdraft 
charges; and it would reduce the overdraft by the repayment amount in the relevant months, 
the arrears cleared by the end of September and the overdraft removed.   
Mr A didn't keep to the arrangement. On 31 August 2019 he complained to Santander that 
he was expecting two refunds of £50, but only one had been credited to his account. 
Santander sent a final response saying it agreed there had been errors and arranged a 
second refund.
However, when sending in its file, it said it could find no record of any agreement to refund 
two charges. It said a charge was refunded on 30 August that applied from the June/July 
period and was refunded as Mr A wasn't notified in advance of the charge being made. And 
the complaint investigator noted that charge resulted in another being applied, so that was 
refunded also, on 5 September 2019. 
Our investigator concluded Santander hadn't done anything wrong as, having listened to the 
calls, she didn't find it had agreed to two refunds being made. And although she accepted 
one of the calls was long this was as a result of needing to set up the payment arrangement. 
Mr A asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He said he had been charged for 
no reason and Santander had made errors. He says it hasn't taken his concerns seriously. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the calls Mr A had with Santander about his account. I do agree the first 
call he had with them in August 2019 was long, but this was because he wanted to reinstate 
his account and a payment arrangement needed to be agreed. The charges he had incurred 
up until that point were as a result of him having an unauthorised overdraft and not taking 
steps to repay that. During that call Mr A asked about having the charges refunded. But Santander declined this 
request as he hadn't been in financial difficulties and they had been applied correctly. And 
having listened to the other calls provided, I haven't heard Santander agree to refund two 
charges. 
It does, however, appear an error was made as Mr A wasn't notified in advance of the 
charge applied in July. This was refunded in August. The complaint investigator noted the 
balance of the account as a result would have incurred a further charge, so I find it fair this 
was refunded also. But I haven't been provided with any persuasive evidence Mr A made 
several calls lasting hours about this - the only call of that length was the initial call about 
reinstating the account. 
I note Mr A did have further discussions after his complaint was made, about the account. 
This was because Mr A broke the payment arrangement and another had to be agreed. And 
these invariably take time because of their very nature. 
Overall, I haven't seen persuasive evidence Santander agreed to refund two charges. I 
therefore don't require it to do anything more than it already has.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman