DRN-2203209
The complaint
Ms S complains about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with her claim against her travel 
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents.  
What happened
Ms S has travel insurance as a benefit of a current account. In September 2019, she booked 
a trip with intended departure and return dates of 26 February 2020 and 24 March 2020 
respectively. 
On the day of her intended departure, Ms S contacted UKI and said that she had cancelled 
her trip that day, as she had flu. UKI told Ms S what documentation it required. Ms S 
provided some documentation and didnt hear anything further from UKI. 
In May 2020, Ms S contacted UKI again. UKI said that it didnt have enough information to 
validate Ms S claim. It asked Ms S for a medical certificate and a cancellation invoice. UKI 
tried to contact the airline on Ms S behalf but it wouldnt discuss the matter with UKI. UKI 
paid Ms S compensation of £50 in relation to its delay in dealing with her claim. 
The airline refunded airport taxes. Ms S wants UKI to settle her claim in relation to the 
remaining flight and rail costs. 
UKI says that it hasnt declined Ms S claim. It says that Ms S hasnt provided the information 
it needs to assess the claim. UKI says that Ms S made a claim a week before this claim, as 
she didnt wish to travel because of covid-19 (coronavirus). It declined that claim. UKI said 
that it wants to be sure about the date Ms S cancelled the trip  to establish that Ms S didnt 
cancel the trip before she became unwell. UKI says that it needs a cancellation invoice, letter 
or e-mail from the airline. 
Ms S says that she cant provide the information UKI is asking for. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought it was fair and  
reasonable for UKI to ask Ms S for evidence about the cancellation. The investigator thought 
that the compensation UKI had paid Ms S in relation to its delay in handling the claim was 
fair. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider her 
complaint. She said:
The service she received from UKI was inconsistent as she was led to believe that 
her claim was valid.
UKI want evidence from her travel providers that she cant provide.  
The process has caused her stress and the compensation UKI has already paid for 
poor service is insufficient. 
Shes happy to pass on medical records to UKI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
Subject to certain terms, the policy provides cover for travel costs following cancellation of a 
trip in some circumstances. The policy also provides:
Information to support your claim
You must give us all the information, original documents and help that we need to 
process your claim. This includes medical certificates, details of your home 
insurance and any other relevant insurance policy. You must pay any costs required 
to get this information.
Has UKI handled the claim unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.
Im not upholding Ms S complaint and Ill explain why:
One of the terms of Ms S policy says that she must give UKI all the information and 
original documents it needs to deal with her claim. I dont think that UKI treated Ms S 
unfairly in concluding that she hasnt provided the information it needs to assess the 
claim.  
Ive looked at the documentation Ms S gave to UKI in support of her claim. The 
Statement of Fitness for Work completed by Ms S doctor says that Ms S saw the 
doctor on 26 February 2020 (the date of her intended departure) and that she wasnt 
fit for work from 26 February 2020 to 4 March 2020, due to an upper respiratory 
infection. That statement doesnt address whether Ms S was fit to travel. 
UKI wants to establish when Ms S cancelled the trip. I dont think its unreasonable 
for UKI to want to establish that. As Ms S wants to claim against the policy for 
cancellation due to her illness, I think its reasonable for UKI to try to ascertain when 
Ms S cancelled the trip.  
The documentation Ms S has given to UKI to support her claim doesnt show the 
date she cancelled the flights. The screenshot headed Booking cancellation shows 
some of the information Ms S would have seen when she cancelled the flights but 
doesnt show the date of cancellation. The document dated 22 May 2020 from the 
airline gives details of the flights and costs but doesnt say when Ms S cancelled the 
flight. The airline says in that document that it cant re-send a duplicate receipt for the 
transaction but thats not what UKI needs: it needs evidence of when Ms S cancelled 
the trip.
I appreciate that Ms S says its difficult to gather any more information, but I dont 
think what UKI has asked Ms S to provide is unreasonable in the circumstances. Any 
difficulties Ms S has with the airline arent UKIs responsibility here.  
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable in this case to direct UKI to 
proceed to deal with Ms S claim based on the information shes already provided but I dont think it would. Thats because evidence about Ms S illness and the date she 
cancelled the flights is central to her claim and I dont think its unreasonable for UKI 
to want to see that evidence.  
UKI should have communicated its position to Ms S at the outset in a timely way. It 
didnt do that. Ms S had the inconvenience of having to contact UKI again to move 
things along. I think that the compensation UKI has already paid to Ms S in relation to 
its initial delay is fair and I dont require it to pay any more. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that UKI treated Ms S unfairly in requiring her 
to provide certain evidence about her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman