DRN-3019011
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) because he believes 
it mis-sold him his insurance policies. 
Mr K brings his complaint through a third-party representative, but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.   
What happened
The background to this decision is set out under my provisional findings. A copy of which 
has been attached below. Given both sides already know the background to this complaint, 
Ill focus on whats happened since I issued my provisional decision. 
I said that I was intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint, like our investigator had, however I 
thought it fair to increase the compensation awarded to £7,000 and that TPWM should pay 
three years worth of benefit because of the mistakes it made. Mr K accepted my provisional 
findings, but TPWM did not. In summary, it said;
How to equate redress when not working 
It wouldnt be fair to hold TPWM responsible for not documenting any health-related 
problems when Mr K wasnt forthcoming in volunteering this information;
Mr Ks symptoms began after he met with its adviser and therefore had the adviser 
asked the relevant health questions, there wouldnt have been anything of 
significance to record;
Mr K should have reviewed all the information to make sure the policy was suitable, 
and that all necessary information had been disclosed and
Mr K couldnt have been in financial difficulty because hed received a pay-out from 
another insurance policy he held.
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons explained in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
This was an advised sale of insurance by TPWM and so it had a responsibility to ensure the 
advice it gave was suitable so that Mr K could make an informed choice about the new 
policy (P2) itd recommended. Like I explained in my provisional findings, by recommending 
P2 without completing the necessary due diligence and not asking Mr K about his health in 
detail, this resulted in the mis-sale of an unsuitable income protection policy. I say that 
because had the health-related questions been asked the way they should have been, Im 
satisfied it would have given Mr K the chance to declare the symptoms he was suffering. To 
be clear, the questions were;
Apart from anything your client has already told us about in this application, do they have 
any medical condition or symptom that:
 Any other symptom that they may see a health professional about for the first time in
the next four weeks?
 Are they experiencing any symptoms or complaints for which they have not yet
consulted any kind of doctor, nurse or specialist?  
Ive considered TPWMs argument that there was nothing to declare here, but Im not 
persuaded that was the case. Thats because having reviewed Mr Ks medical history and 
GP notes, Ive seen that hed been suffering with headaches prior to the meeting with 
TPWM. When Mr K saw his GP on 18 October 2019, it was recorded that hed been 
suffering with stress and headaches for the past few months  so Im satisfied hed suffered 
symptoms prior to the meeting that took place a few weeks earlier on 1 October. 
TPWM noted Mr Ks testimony to an insurer which said hed only suffered symptoms since 
October, but for the reasons Ive explained, Im more persuaded by the contemporaneous 
evidence recorded by his GP. Unfortunately, following his terminal diagnosis in November, 
Mr Ks symptoms developed further, and he began suffering with neurological problems that 
affected his cognitive ability. And so, I think its understandable that his recollections of when 
and how things happened were impacted by his illness. This could potentially account for 
some of the discrepancies  which is why I think its more persuasive to rely on 
contemporaneous medical evidence in the circumstances.
I also think that because Mr K visited the GP four days into the policy, this too, shows that he 
was suffering with symptoms. Had he been asked the question, he again would have been 
given an opportunity to respond to the first part of the question. TPWM had an obligation to 
ask all health-related questions carefully. Because this didnt happen, Mr K was given 
unsuitable advice and decided to change policies on that basis. 
Im also not persuaded by TPWMs arguments about Mr K not being left in financial difficulty 
because of its actions. In summary, it said that because hed received a pay-out under 
another insurance policy, which was a lump sum payment, this meant he wasnt struggling 
financially. But I dont think it fair that TPWM rely on that argument to effectively try to 
diminish the impact of its actions here. TPWM said hed received a lump sum payment in 
May 2020, but Ive not seen any evidence of this. Further, I understand the link its trying to 
make with this argument, but Im not persuaded by it because the crux of it is that Mr K took 
all his policies in good faith and relied on TPWMs advice to do so. 
The advice wasnt suitable, and this had a significant impact on Mr K both emotionally and 
financially. Im persuaded that he would have had a valid claim had he not lost his existing 
cover. Its because of that Im directing TPWM to pay the three years worth of benefit. 
TPWM said that should consider the claim from the perspective that Mr K was self-
employed. But I dont think thats fair given he was employed directly by his employer. Ive 
seen the employment contract between Mr K and his employer and so Im persuaded that 
my directive is fair. The relevant part of the terms say that the insurer would have paid Mr K 
70% of his annual income, which was £45,000, before the deduction of tax and national 
insurance which is what Im awarding as part of this complaint. Mr K has been without this 
money for a significant period of time and so I think it fair that TPWM also pay him £7,000 
compensation for the extreme trouble and upset caused, for all the reasons Ive explained in 
both my final and provisional decisions. My final decision
My final decision is that True Potential Wealth Management Limited must pay Mr K three 
years worth of benefit as explained above, plus £7,000 compensation for the extreme 
trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
[Copy of provisional decision]
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to depart from the outcome reached by our investigator. Im
still intending to uphold this complaint, but for different reasons. Im also intending to
increase the amount of compensation.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 2 September 2021. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with True Potential Wealth Management LLP because he feels it mis-sold
him his insurance policies.
What happened
Mr K visited an adviser from TPWM at the beginning of October 2019 because he wanted
updated insurance policies that reflected the recent changes to his circumstances. Mr K
secured a new work contract which was to begin in November 2019. He took the advice and
opted to renew his existing policies for income protection, critical illness and life assurance.
Mr K said TPWM didnt accurately record personal information or complete his applications
with the necessary due diligence.
Mr K said there was no discussion or questions asked about his health at that time; he didnt
receive any recommendation letters prior to the new policies beginning  so he was unable
to make an informed choice about which policies were most suitable; he was unaware hed
even taken out new policies as he was under the impression hed simply updated his
previous ones; and there were several mistakes made about his personal circumstances,
including his marital status, that he was a homeowner and some other inaccuracies within
the applications made by the broker.
This came to light when he sadly needed to make a claim on his policy, following his
diagnosis of glioblastoma and his income protection claim was declined. The insurer said the
policy shouldnt have been offered to Mr K to begin with, which gave rise to this complaint
about the mis-sale of that policy.
TPWM didnt think itd made any mistakes. It said the meeting with Mr K took place face to
face and there was a detailed discussion about his demands and needs and his health. It
recognised Mr K had existing policies and that these were in arrears. It highlighted this as
being the reason his existing policies ended and not because of any instructions given by its
adviser. TPWM said Mr K had a history of doing this, which is why it didnt seem unusual
that he came with the view to starting new policies and allowing his existing ones to lapse. It
said this was the reason his previous income protection policy had been cancelled; because
Mr K hadnt paid his premiums.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part and awarded £500 compensation. She said
she didnt think the critical illness or life assurance policies were mis-sold. She said the
policies met Mr Ks needs and were consistent with the cover he wanted at the time. But the
investigator thought the income protection policy had been mis-sold, because TPWM didnt
take enough care to explore Mr Ks health conditions and other relevant circumstances at
the time. She said its because of this that his expectations about cover were seriously
mismanaged and that this caused him severe trouble and upset.
TPWM accepted her findings but Mr K didnt. In summary, he said the compensation is not
enough. He would like the broker to effectively pay his claim. He said;
The amount of inaccuracies in the questionnaire completed by the adviser is
indicative that TPWM didnt fully understand his needs and, therefore, was
unable to give suitable advice;
Had he been asked the medical questions, then he wouldnt have been able to
take the new income protection policy  meaning that hed have continued with
his existing policy and his claim would have been covered and;His cognitive ability was seriously impacted at the time of the sale because of his
glioblastoma. He said this affected his judgement and ability to handle these
types of affairs. And so, its for me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention to uphold this 
complaint and Im intending to increase the amount of compensation to fairly reflect the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused by TPWM. Before I explain my reasons for doing this, I would like 
to acknowledge the difficult set of circumstances Mr K experienced, Im very sorry to hear about his 
terminal prognosis. 
I understand Mr Ks cognitive ability has also been affected by his condition and Im satisfied
this has left him financially vulnerable, having referred to the definition set by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA).
I should also say that my decision is solely focussed on the mis-sale element of the income
protection policy and that the life and critical illness elements will now be considered
separately. This is because they are individual products with different providers and so it
wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider them as part of this complaint.
the income protection mis-sale
Its difficult for me to know exactly what was discussed in the meeting between Mr K and
TPWM because I wasnt present during the discussions. However, Ive considered the
available evidence and Im satisfied there were mistakes made by the adviser. I should say
some of the errors made, like incorrectly recording Mr Ks marriage status and
homeownership details, I consider to be relatively minor, as they dont have a material
impact on this complaint. I say that because they wouldnt have directly related to the level of
cover options available to Mr K at the time of sale. But I think its fair to say that those
mistakes demonstrate the adviser could have been more diligent in recording matters
discussed at the meeting.
For simplicity, Im going to refer to Mr Ks income protection policies as P1 and P2. Mr K took
P1 in July and P2 in October 2019.
On 1 October 2019, Mr K discussed his need to update P1 with TPWM because his
circumstances had changed; hed had a salary increase with a new job, so wanted the level
of cover increased to reflect this. Mr K said he was unaware that he was entering a new
policy, P2, as he was under the impression he was simply extending the level of cover
provided by P1.
But Im not persuaded by that. I think Mr K was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware
that he was entering into a new policy - P2. I say that because Mr K was initially self employed under 
P1 and he was about to enter a permanent role with an employer. And
although I accept P1 could likely have been amended, I dont think this was Mr Ks intention,
because hed already stopped making payments for P1 by the time he met with the adviser.
I also note TPWMs comments about similar activities by Mr K previously and Im satisfied
this was the case, as Ive seen evidence of this with an existing policy prior to P1. And so, I
think Mr K was aware that he was entering a new policy. This is further supported by Mr Ks
decision to continue not to make any further payments under P1 until November 2019, when
the insurer eventually cancelled that policy, as hed missed more than three months worth of
payments
.
Mr K made further arguments that had he known P2 wouldnt have provided cover for his
claim, because he was experiencing symptoms prior to inception, hed have paid his arrears
under P1. I understand the connection hes attempting to make here, but I also find it
contradictory of the previous argument that he was unaware of entering P2. I note from
TPWMs demands and needs that Mr Ks business was experiencing temporary cash flow
problems, which is supported by the arrears accumulated under P1 at the time he saw theadviser on 1 October.
This case now essentially hinges on whether TPWMs advice was suitable. And I dont think
that it was, because Mr K didnt need to start a new policy. This is further supported by the
insurer having said TPWM could have simply updated P1 with Mr Ks new circumstances.
Having carefully considered those policy terms, Im also satisfied there was scope to do that.
Mr Ks new salary was £45,000 and the policy limit was £49,000  so was within that limit.
Further, he was changing from self-employed to contracted  this too was within the scope
of P1s terms.
I dont think there was any need for Mr K to take P2 in the circumstances, because his
existing policy was better suited to his needs. I also think the adviser didnt make it clear that
Mr K would be losing some of the cover he benefited from under P1. Changing to P2 left Mr
K without cover for his terminal diagnosis  which I think would most likely have been
covered had he continued with P1.
In reference to TPWM asking Mr K about his medical history, Im persuaded, on balance,
that this didnt happen. I say that because it seems to be accepted by both sides that the
extent of TPWMs health screening was to ask Mr K whether everything was broadly the
same as last time. This was a serious mistake and has had a significant impact for this case.
TPWM should have completed the insurers health questionnaire more carefully than it did.
There were some specific questions that needed to be asked of Mr K so it could determine
whether to accept the risk of insuring him. From the evidence available, Ive not seen anything that 
persuasively concludes that Mr K was asked any of those questions. And so, I
can only surmise that this was completed by the adviser alone, without Mr Ks input, in order
to obtain a new quote for P2. Had TPWM asked Mr K to answer those questions, he would
have had the opportunity to declare important information pertaining to his health. The
insurer said it would not have offered Mr K P2 had it known the correct answers to those
health-related questions. But he would have been able to bring P1 back up to date and
therefore cover would have continued under that policy.
Its because of these mistakes that I find that TPWM has mis-sold this policy and that has
had an extreme impact on Mr K and his family. Mr K has been without a salary for almost
two years, directly caused by the mis-selling of this insurance policy. And so, I think the
advice given by TPWM was unsuitable. It should have asked and recorded the answers to
questions about Mr K more carefully and accurately. That way it would not have
misrepresented his circumstances to the insurer and P2 would not have been incepted.
In the event Mr K was refused P2 due to the answers to the insurers medical questions, I
think its most likely TPWM would have advised Mr K to clear the remaining arrears on P1, to
bring it back up to date. At the time of the meeting, he had missed one payment  the
September 2019 instalment. The insurer allowed Mr K to miss up to three payments before
cancelling the policy and so this would have taken up to mid-November. His terminal
diagnosis was received on 6 November and so he could have still been on-cover with P1
had the correct and more suitable advice been given. Im satisfied that was still an option for
Mr K as Ive seen letters from the insurer offering him the chance to bring P1 up to date to
remain on cover.
To put things right, I think TPWM should pay Mr Ks consequential losses as a result of the
unsuitable advice it gave. Mr K has lost out on approximately two years worth of benefit and
so I think TPWM should pay this directly to Mr K. In addition, I think it should pay another
years worth of benefit in acknowledgement of Mr Ks terminal prognosis. As difficult as it is
to decide how to evaluate this, Im basing this on the prognosis given by Mr Ks consultant
and his current presentation. I should say that Mr K has exceeded the life expectancy
estimate made by the professionals responsible for his care. So I think this should be taken
into consideration whilst thinking about the compensation Im awarding. Thats why I think its
fair for TPWM to pay a total of three years worth of benefit under this policy. This should be
based on the 75% cover of Mr Ks newer wage of £45,000. Mr K was employed and working
for his new employer at the time he was diagnosed with his terminal illness and so would be
entitled to the higher level of cover.In terms of compensation for distress and inconvenience, Im satisfied this will fall within the
extreme band of our award limits. I say that because I think TPWMs actions have had a
serious impact on Mr K. He was advised of a limited life expectancy and sadly the non-payment of his 
income protection benefits has seriously affected the time hes able to spend
with his loved ones. Further, Mr K has had to struggle financially because of the poor advice
given and has had the additional worry about how his family will manage and the financial
uncertainty that lay ahead. And so, Im recommending that TPWM pay him £7,000 for the
overall distress and inconvenience caused, plus 8% simple interest on the award Ive
recommended.
My provisional decision
Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Im
recommending True Potential Wealth Management LLP should;
Pay Mr K three years worth of benefit under P1s policy terms and;
Pay Mr K £7,000 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused.
Scott Slade
Ombudsman
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman