DRN-2960438
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car he took from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited under a hire purchase 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr N entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. The 
car which was the subject of the agreement was some five years old and had covered 
around 34,000 miles. Its cash price was just over £13,000. 
The car passed an MOT test in June 2019. Mr N says that from about October 2019 he 
started experiencing problems with the car. Specifically, there was a coolant leak and a 
problem with the heater matrix. Mr N believed too that the cars exhaust gas rectification (or 
EGR) valve had been tampered with or removed. He tried to arrange repairs but was unable 
to do so. He contacted the dealership in January 2020, and it arranged to have the car taken 
for repairs. He complained to Moneybarn in March 2020.
Repairs were made to the cooling system and heater matrix. An independent inspection 
found however that there was no issue with the EGR valve. It had been correctly fitted and 
was functioning correctly. That inspection did however show that the cars diesel particulate 
filter (DPF) had been removed at some point  probably by thieves. Mr N made a successful 
claim under his insurance for that.
Mr N settled the finance with Moneybarn in June 2020; he kept the car and has more 
recently reported further issues with it.
Mr N complained to Moneybarn that the car had not been of satisfactory quality when it was 
provided to him. Unhappy with Moneybarns response, he referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered what had happened. He agreed with Mr N that the 
car had been faulty at delivery and that, as a result, he had not had any use of it from 
October 2019 until May 2020. He thought therefore that Moneybarn should refund any 
payments made during that time and pay Mr N a further £200 in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which he had been put.
Moneybarn did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
I noted that the agreement with Moneybarn was to be read as including a term that the car 
would be of satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in 
all the circumstances. There had been a coolant leak within a few months of Mr N taking 
delivery of the car, but there was very little information about the cause. It might have been 
the result of wear and tear or it might have been something more serious. In any event, the 
dealership had repaired the leak at no cost to Mr N. Similarly, repairs were made to the 
heater matrix and cooling system. 
I was therefore satisfied that, even if those were matters that meant the car was not of 
satisfactory at the point of delivery, enough had been done to put things right. 
I accepted that there was no issue with the EGR valve, in line with the findings of the 
independent inspection. 
I noted too that Mr N had said he was unable to use the car for several months while repairs 
were carried out. That was unfortunate, but I did not consider that the delays were the fault 
of Moneybarn. It had not been aware of any concerns until about March 2020. Some of the 
delay was caused by the theft of the DPF. I did not recommend that Moneybarn do any more 
to resolve the complaint. 
In response, Mr N said that he had approached the dealership initially, but it had said that it 
was unable to help as the repairs that were needed were not covered under the cars 
warranty. He tried therefore to get his own garage to help, but it had difficulty locating parts. 
In around January 2020 Mr N contacted the finance broker, Z, which said that it was in touch 
with Moneybarn. Mr N said that he had been let down by the dealer, the broker and 
Moneybarn.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept of course that there were problems with the car. However, because they were 
resolved, it is not possible to know for certain whether they were present at the point of 
supply or whether they meant the car was not of satisfactory quality. But, even I accept that 
the car was not satisfactory, I believe it was brought into a satisfactory condition by those 
repairs. In saying that, I make no comment on the later issues that Mr N says have now 
arisen. 
Mr Ns response to my provisional decision mostly discussed the delays in repairing the car. 
He pointed out that he had initially contacted the dealership and only became aware of his 
right to approach Moneybarn by about January 2020. He had been told that Z was in contact 
with Moneybarn and assumed that was the case. He noted that the investigator had 
commented on the timeline. 
I accept that Mr Ns account of what happened when he was trying to get the car repaired is 
accurate. In his assessment of the complaint, however, the investigator said that he did not 
think Moneybarn was responsible for the advice Mr N received in October 2019 or for the 
delays from January 2020. I agree with that. Moneybarn would have been responsible for 
any information or advice Z gave to Mr N about the finance agreement, but not for anything it 
or the dealership said about arranging repairs. Mr Ns complaint is of course not about the 
finance agreement; it is about the quality of the car and how the repairs were handled. I do 
not believe therefore that I can properly hold Moneybarn responsible for the fact that Mr N 
was without the car for so long. 
I would note as well that the finance agreement was a conditional sale agreement, not a hire 
agreement. The monthly payments that were due under the agreement were not simply 
payments so that Mr N could use the car over a certain period. They were, at least in part, 
payments for the purchase of the car. So, even if I thought Moneybarn was responsible for 
the car being off the road for as long as it was, it does not follow that any payments made in 
that time should be refunded.         
My final decisionFor these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman