DRN-3260213
The complaint
Mr S complains that TICORP Limited mis-sold him optional gadget cover when he took out a
travel insurance policy online. Staysure is a trading name of TICORP, so Ill refer to Staysure
throughout this decision.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr S took out a travel insurance policy online, to cover him for a cruise
he had planned between 6 January and 16 March 2020. During the sale, he chose to take
out optional gadget insurance cover. This add-on cover was underwritten by an insurer Ill
call Z.
During the holiday, Mr S mobile phone was lost or stolen. He replaced the phone with a new
model at a cost of around £1000. After he returned to the UK, he made a claim on his gadget
insurance policy for the costs of replacing his phone. Z accepted the claim. It offered Mr S
either a replacement by way of a refurbished phone or a cash settlement.
Mr S was unhappy with the way the policy had been sold to him by Staysure. He felt that
Staysure hadnt made it clear that claims could be settled by way of refurbished handsets
and that it had misrepresented the benefits of the gadget insurance policy. He asked us to
consider his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Staysure had
provided Mr S with misleading information about the way the policy worked. And she was
satisfied itd sent Mr S the full policy terms following the sale, which explained how Z would
settle gadget cover claims.
Mr S disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He felt it was our role to determine
whether marketing material was fair and accurate. In this case, the marketing material didnt
refer to the fact that replacements would be refurbished phones. He felt it was absurd to
place the responsibility on consumers to read the small print and he referred to the
provisions of the Unfair Contract Terms Act. He didnt think the investigators findings were
acceptable.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2021, which explained why I didnt think 
Staysure had done anything wrong which it needed to put right when it sold Mr S policy. I 
said:
Its common ground that Mr S took out his single trip travel insurance policy online. This
means that Staysure didnt recommend that he should take it out and so it didnt need to
make sure it was suitable for him. But it did need to give Mr S enough clear, fair and not
misleading information about the policy so that he could decide if it was right for him.
To understand what information Mr S wouldve seen when he applied for the policy, I asked
Staysure to provide me with screenshots to show the sales process he wouldve followed.
After entering details about his trip, himself and his medical history, he wouldve been asked
to select the level of cover he wanted. At the bottom of this screen, a policyholder wouldve
been given an option to Personalise their Policy and a range of optional add-on covers
were listed, together with the individual price of each add-on. Each add-on was
accompanied by a check box, which a policyholder could select if they wanted to take up
one of the optional covers. There was nothing on this screen to indicate how Z would settle
claims or to suggest that the gadget cover worked on a new-for-old basis.
Each optional cover also included a question mark for a policyholder to click on if they
wanted more information about the add-on. If Mr S had clicked on this icon next to the
gadget cover, a pop-up screen wouldve appeared. This said:
This cover is available for an unlimited number of gadgets to provide cover up to £1000 for:
Accidental loss or theft
Accidental or malicious damage
Liquid damage
Unauthorised call, text or data usage
Breakdown.
Terms and conditions apply, click here for full details. (A hyperlink to the gadget cover terms
was included here).
While I accept this screen doesnt set out the full cover, or how claims will be settled by Z, I
dont agree that its misleading or misrepresents how the policy works. Having checked Zs
policy wording, it does provide worldwide cover of up to £1000 for a policyholders gadgets.
It also covers accidental loss or theft. So the information Staysure has set out in this section
mirrors what the policy does in practice. Staysure hasnt suggested here that the policy
provides new-for-old cover or that if a policyholder loses a phone while on holiday, Z will
simply pay for any replacement a policyholder chooses. So I cant fairly conclude that its
misled Mr S in any way.
Following the sale, Staysure emailed Mr S a link to a copy of his policy certificate and the
policy terms and conditions, including the gadget cover contract. The policy was taken out
over three months before Mr S was due to travel. So Im satisfied Staysure met its
obligations to provide clear information in this regard and in a timely way. It was then open to
Mr S to look at the terms of his cover before he travelled and to check whether the gadget
policy was right for him. Page two of the eight page booklet set out how Z settles each head
of claim and page four set out how claims are settled, including that Z offers replacement
phones and refers to refurbished handsets. If Mr S was unhappy with the cover Z provided
or he felt at that point that Staysure had misled him as to the extent of the gadget cover, I
think it wouldve been reasonable for him to cancel the policy with Staysure within the
cooling-off period and obtain a refund of premium.
Id add too that many gadget insurance policies provide refurbished handsets as
replacements when mobile phone claims are made. So I dont think this is an onerous or
unusual term.
Overall, based on all Ive seen so far, I dont think Staysure acted unfairly when it sold Mr S
policy. Im satisfied it provided him with clear, fair and not misleading information about the
policy so that he could decide if it was right for him.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider, but neither Mr S nor Staysure responded within the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any more evidence or comments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman