DRN-3823473
The complaint
Mrs L complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Car Insurance (Churchill) 
have unfairly declined a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs L had a motor insurance policy with Churchill, which began on 12 December 2021 and 
ran until 11 December 2022. The policy she purchased provides her with comprehensive 
cover in the UK and the republic of Ireland. The policy provides third-party only cover for 
driving in the rest of Europe. 
Mrs L called Churchill in December 2021 (call 1) to let them know she would be travelling 
abroad between 28 December and 5 January and to ask for a green card. She was asked if 
she wanted full foreign usage, which she said she did and the agent gave her a quote of 
£75.04, this included and admin fee of £26.88. Mrs L was shocked that she would have to 
pay for the cover as she had not had to do this with previous insurers. As she wasnt sure if 
she wanted to proceed, she agreed to think about and call back if she wanted to go ahead.
Mrs L called back 30 minutes later (call 2) and asked to arrange a green card for driving 
abroad. The agent asked for her travel dates which she said were 28 December until 28 
February. The agent says you have 90 days to utilise on the policy she then confirmed the 
amendment had been done and that Mrs L would be able to access the documents through 
the portal. Mrs L was not asked to pay any additional premium for the change. Before 
hanging up Mrs L said, So I can take it to ___ and drive it under the same cover Churchills 
agent confirmed Yes comprehensively covered. Mrs L received new policy documents 
which were headed Weve made your temporary change.
In June 2022 Mrs L contacted Churchill to make a claim, she had been driving in another 
European country on 18 June when her car tyre suffered a blow out causing damage to the 
car. After some consideration Churchill declined the claim saying that Mrs L only had the 
minimum level of cover in place (third-party only) and so damage to her car wasnt covered.
Mrs L returned to the UK while her car was being repaired abroad and then flew back to 
collect it and bring it home. She incurred the costs for this. 
She complained to Churchill as she didnt agree with them declining the claim based on her 
being told in call 2 she was comprehensively covered. She felt the claim and her out of 
pocket costs relating to it should be covered. She also complained to them about the level of 
communication they provided to her while she was waiting to hear about her claim. 
Churchill upheld Mrs Ls complaint about their delays in communication and awarded £80 in 
compensation for this but maintained their stance on the claim not being covered under the 
policy. They accepted Mrs L had been given incorrect information in the call in December 
2021 but felt that the call was too long before the incident to be taken into consideration.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with their response so brought her complaint to this service, she told 
us that had she known she didnt have comprehensive cover in Europe included in her policy 
she never would have bought it.
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld, in summary they 
said although Churchill had provided incorrect information in call 2, this was in relation to the 
trip Mrs L was advising them of at that time, which ended on 28 February 2022. So wasnt 
relevant to this incident which happened later, in June 2022.
Mrs L disagreed, she argues that she had 90 days of comprehensive cover in Europe to use 
in any policy year and the incident fell with those 90 days, so should be covered.  The matter 
has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
When purchasing the policy Mrs L was provided with, among others, the following 
documents  An Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), and insurance schedule 
and the policy terms and conditions. 
The IPID includes a section titled Where am I covered? this explains where full cover is in 
place and goes on to explain that in some other countries the policy provides the minimum 
cover required by law. It refers to a section in the policy booklet called Where you can drive 
where the list of the countries can be found. 
It also says cover can be upgraded for some countries for up to 90 days per policy year with 
details available in the policy booklet of how to do this. It does state the consumer should 
call before travelling to be advised of the additional cost.
The policy schedules states under the heading Using your car abroad:
Youre covered for claims from other people for injury, damage to their car or 
property.
Youre not covered for accidental damage, fire or theft of your car.
If you would like to increase your cover abroad, please get in touch.
See your policy booklet for full details.
In the section of the policy booklet referred to in the IPID the different levels of cover are set 
out as: Third-party fire and theft, Comprehensive and Comprehensive plus. Its explained 
that all three levels incur an additional cost which needs to be paid for them to be added to 
the policy. It goes onto list the countries where minimum cover is provided without the addition of these 
extra levels.
Im satisfied based on the above, the documentation provided to Mrs L when she took the 
policy, was sufficiently clear that comprehensive cover for Europe was not included but could 
be added at an additional cost to her.
The agent made it very clear to Mrs L during call 1 that if she wanted full cover to drive in 
Europe, she would need to pay an additional premium as it was not included in her policy. 
Based on this and given that there was only 30 minutes between the two calls. When the 
agent didnt charge her any additional premium in call 2, I think she was on notice to know 
the information she had been given, that she was comprehensively covered, was incorrect. 
Mrs L was provided with new documentation which said a temporary change had been made 
to her policy. I think its reasonable to expect her to have looked at this document to make 
sure the change shed expected had been done correctly. Had she done so she would have 
seen there had been no change to her cover level for using her car abroad. The document 
mirrored her original schedule, saying:
Using your car abroad
Youre covered for claims from other people for injury, damage to their car or 
property.
Youre not covered for accidental damage, fire or theft of your car.
If you would like to increase your cover abroad, please get in touch.
See your policy booklet for full details.
I understand Mrs Ls point about her being able to rely on what Churchill told her during call 
2. But when considering whats fair here Ive thought about if it was reasonable for Mrs L to 
have assumed her cover had been upgraded based on all of the information available to her 
at the time, not only the call. 
There were three different documents and the agent on call 1 telling her she would need to 
pay for additional cover as well as the new documentation which confirmed the cover hadnt 
been extended to comprehensive cover. Versus the information given in call 2. Based on the 
fact she knew she had not made any additional payment and the updated documentation 
coming through after call 2; I cant fairly say it was reasonable for her to have assumed the 
cover had been upgraded. 
However, for completeness Ive gone on to consider the date of the claim incident, as this 
appears to have played a part in Churchills considerations. Even if I accept, which to be 
clear I dont, that it was ok to assume the cover had been upgraded as a result of call 2. I 
think it would be fair to say the upgraded cover would have only been valid between the 
dates of 28 December 2021 and 28 February 2022. I say this because those are the dates 
Mrs L called about when wanting European cover. So, for Mrs Ls trip in June 2022 I would 
have expected her to call and upgrade cover again for the duration of that trip. 
I understand that Mrs L says she was entitled to 90 days cover during the lifetime of her 
policy. And, she is entitled to 90 days cover, but as confirmed by all of the policy documents, 
at the minimum level required by law, which in this case was third party only. As such, it 
follows I dont think there was comprehensive cover in place for driving abroad and so I dont 
think Churchill has unfairly declined the claim in Mrs Ls case.I have gone on to consider Mrs Ls points about Churchills communication. There is no 
dispute from either party that Churchill could have done better here, but I think the £80 they 
awarded in compensation for this is fair, reasonable and in line with our approach.
I know Mrs L will be disappointed with this outcome, as I understand how strongly she feels 
about this. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Churchill  
can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman