DRN-2432036
Complaint
Mr C complains about a loan Avant Credit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. He 
says Avant Credit irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Avant Credit had told us. And he thought 
that Avant Credit hadnt lent irresponsibly or treated Mr C unfairly. So he didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Avant Credit needed to make sure that it didnt lend to Mr C, irresponsibly. In practice, what 
this means is that Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr C before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the 
longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and 
the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that 
it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr C was provided with a loan for £2,400.00 in September 2016. The loan was to be repaid 
in 36 monthly instalments of £114.19. Avant Credit says it agreed to Mr Cs application after 
hed provided details of his monthly income and expenditure and carried out a credit check. 
It says the information Mr C provided on his income and expenditure showed that hed be 
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to and there was nothing in the 
credit check which called into question any of the information provided. In these 
circumstances, it considers that it was reasonable to lend. 
On the other hand, Mr C says that Avant Credit saw a copy of his most recent bank 
statement and this showed that he was in a difficult financial position. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Avant Credit have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Mr Cs first loan with Avant Credit. The information provided does 
suggest that Mr C was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure. Bearing in 
mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Avant Credit asked Mr C, the 
credit check carried out showing nothing too concerning and this was Mr Cs first loan, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Avant Credit to rely on the information provided.
I accept that Avant Credit initially said it looked at Mr Cs bank statement before lending to 
him. Mr Cs circumstances are more accurately reflected in the bank statement hes now 
provided us with than in the results of the credit check. And if this bank statement had been 
seen Id question whether the decision to lend was fair. But Avant Credit has confirmed      
Mr Cs income was verified electronically rather than by a bank statement and the audit trail 
provided supports this being the case. 
Furthermore, it isnt in dispute that the purpose of gathering extra information was to verify 
Mr Cs employer and monthly income. As the bank statement Mr C has now provided 
doesnt show an income going in from his employer, I cant reasonably make the finding that 
Avant Credit saw it or that this loan was approved on this basis of the bank statement 
provided having been seen. Avant Credit could only make its decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. I dont think that it saw the bank statement provided. 
And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve 
extended into Avant Credit asking Mr C to provide it.  
Equally I can uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did something wrong. In 
this case, Avant Credit reasonably relied on the information provided and given the amount 
of the repayments involved and Mr Cs stated loan purpose of debt consolidation, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Avant Credit to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr C wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this 
loan. So bearing this in mind, I dont think that I can reasonably say that this loan was, in any 
event, unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr C.  
Overall I dont think that Avant Credit treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with this loan. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman