DRN-3223727
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the handling of an escape of water claim she made under her 
home insurance policy with the underwriter U K Insurance Limited. 
What happened
In March 2020 Miss A contacted her Home Emergency (HE) provider because of a leak in 
her kitchen. Miss A has raised a separate complaint against the HE business. So I havent 
commented on that in my decision. 
In July 2020 Miss A contacted UKI to make a claim for an escape of water causing damage 
to parts of her kitchen. UKI accepted the claim and asked Miss A to provide evidence to 
support her claim along with quotes for repairs. It paid Miss A £525 as a disturbance 
allowance for three weeks.
Miss A said her home was uninhabitable as a result of the water damage. 
In September 2020 UKI appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to deal with Miss As claim on its 
behalf. They visited Miss As home in the same month. They didnt agree that Miss As home 
was uninhabitable as a result of the escape of water. They provided a scope of works to UKI 
for the repairs, including drying out and alternative accommodation costs for six weeks  as 
they said this is how long it would take for the works to be done. 
In October 2020 UKI offered Miss A a cash payment based on the scope of works provided 
by the LA to settle Miss As claim. It said it could arrange for an approved supplier to carry 
out the works. Miss A didnt accept UKIs proposal. In November 2020 UKI paid a cash 
settlement to Miss A. 
Miss A raised a number of complaints with UKI about the way her claim had been handled 
and UKI has issued a number of final responses to Miss A. 
In relation to this case, Miss A complained that UKI caused delays in its handling of the 
claim, had failed to communicate with her and failed to meet her full claim for the costs she 
said she paid for alternative accommodation. She was unhappy that the LA wanted to 
inspect the upstairs of her property when they visited. 
In October 2020 UKI upheld Miss As complaint in part. It paid Miss A £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused as UKI accepted that it should have dealt with Miss As claim 
sooner.
UKI said that in July 2020 it agreed to meet the costs of Miss A staying at her late fathers 
accommodation while renovations were taking place. But in September 2020 - when the LA 
visited - they concluded that Miss As home wasnt uninhabitable. 
So UKI said it would consider any costs Miss A paid for rent at her late fathers home until 
the date of the LAs visit - subject to proof. It said the LAs request to view all of the property 
was reasonable and necessary in order to validate the claim.
Miss A remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator obtained an agreement from UKI to meet the costs of alternative 
accommodation from the date of Miss As claim to the date of the LAs visit and this was paid 
to Miss A. 
He thought that UKI should have appointed a LA sooner in light of Miss As circumstances 
as she lives with a number of health conditions. And he thought the LA acting on behalf of 
UKI should have done more to accommodate Miss A in a hotel as she said she was under 
threat of being evicted from her late fathers accommodation as she was staying there 
illegally. 
For these reasons, the investigator recommended UKI increase the compensation it paid 
Miss A from £200 to £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
UKI accepted the investigators recommendation. Miss A didnt agree. In summary she says 
that it wasnt suitable for her to stay at a hotel due to her disabilities and dietary 
requirements. Miss A explained to UKI that she owns several pets and so hotel 
accommodation wasnt suitable. 
Miss A says UKI agreed to pay for her to stay in alternative accommodation. She says she 
hasnt been able to have the works carried out to her home due to the settlement not being 
enough. Miss A says her home isnt habitable and her pets are being kept in her lounge. 
Miss A is unhappy that shes paid for additional heating as her home is damp from the water 
damage. She says UKI didnt meet the costs of drying her home out. 
So as Miss A didnt agree the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision addresses the salient points  but I can assure Miss A that I have reviewed all 
of the documentation provided by her and UKI before reaching my decision. 
Dealing with a claim, particularly an escape of water claim, can cause significant distress 
and upset  even if the claim is handled swiftly and without problems. 
I am aware that Miss As father passed away just before the leak occurred and so I 
understand that this was already a very difficult time for Miss A. And I appreciate that Miss A 
lives with a number of health conditions which affect her daily living. 
My role is to consider whether as the insurer, UKI caused distress and inconvenience over 
and above what would be reasonably expected when dealing with the disruption of a claim of 
this nature. 
When Miss A made her claim in July 2020, I can see that UKI asked Miss A to provide 
evidence of the damage caused with photos and estimates for the repairs to the kitchen and 
a hallway carpet. UKI agreed to pay a disturbance allowance for three weeks at £25 a day to 
Miss A totalling £525. I think this was reasonable. I think Miss A made UKI aware from early on of her personal circumstances - and that she 
had a number of pets. I understand her pets  or at least some of them  were previously 
housed in hutches either in her garden or her home. Miss A made a separate claim for flood 
damage to her garden and this service has issued a final decision about that complaint  so I 
wont comment any further on it here. 
I think UKI should have appointed a loss adjuster (LA) sooner than it did  having been 
made aware of Miss As circumstances. And so I think its fair and reasonable that UKI 
should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. Had the 
LA been appointed sooner, I think Miss As expectations would have been better managed 
and a decision as to whether her home was habitable  and her claim for alternative 
accommodation  would have been dealt with sooner. So while I think the £200 UKI paid is a 
starting point, I dont think its enough to reflect the inconvenience caused to Miss A in her 
circumstances. I think a more reasonable compensation sum is £400 which is the same 
outcome as the investigators.
I dont think UKI agreed to cover Miss As alternative accommodation costs indefinitely. In 
July 2020 it said it would cover these costs while renovations were being carried out. Miss A 
believes the works will take between six and twelve months  but the LA said it would take 
six weeks. 
I understand Miss A is unhappy that UKI settled her claim by way of a cash settlement. She 
says she wants UKI to arrange for a supplier to carry out the works. 
However, UKI did offer this as an alternative to the cash settlement in its letter to Miss A 
dated 20 October 2020, but Miss A wasnt satisfied with the way UKI handled her claim. And 
so I think UKI acted reasonably in making the payment in early November 2020 so as to 
avoid further delay  and to allow Miss A to mitigate her losses. 
Miss As policy with UKI says under the section; If you claim
How we settle claims
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in [Section 1], we will either:
 repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
 pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
 make a cash payment.
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or 
make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our 
suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged 
by your suppliers.
So in line with the policy, I think UKIs decision to settle Miss As claim by way of a cash 
payment following the LAs scope of works was a reasonable approach to take and a 
decision it was entitled to make. 
Miss A has complained about the breakdown of the cash settlement separately  so this 
doesnt form part of my decision. 
In August 2020 Miss A looked for alternative suitable accommodation  but the minimum 
rental period was for much longer than the estimated time for the works to be carried out  
either six or twelve months. So UKI didnt agree to cover the rental properties put forward by 
Miss A. Its very difficult to be able to say whether an alternative suitable for Miss As needs 
might have been found at the time for a shorter stay. Our investigator thought hotel 
accommodation or short stay accommodation should have been offered to Miss A. As Miss 
A stated in her reply  and from what Ive read in an email from Miss A to UKI dated 1 October 2020  hotel accommodation isnt something that would have been suitable for Miss 
A and therefore unlikely to have been accepted if offered.
The LA used local hotel rates to decide a daily amount for alternative accommodation  and 
I think this was the fairest way to reach a settlement for this part of Miss As claim. 
I understand Miss A was unhappy that the LA wanted to view the upstairs of her home as 
part of their inspection in September 2020. However, given the scope of the claim was to 
include whether the property was habitable as a result of the escape of water, I dont think 
the LAs request was unreasonable in order to consider Miss As claim.
Having carefully considered Miss As complaint, I think a fair outcome is for UKI to increase 
the compensation it pays her by £200 to £400. I appreciate that Miss A says this isnt 
enough. But I think its a fair sum to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused  and in 
line with what the policy provides cover for when dealing with a claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss A a further £200 compensation, bringing the total 
amount to £400. This is for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman