DRN-4268976
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy because TSB Bank plc didnt uphold his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr N purchased a car from a merchant and paid a deposit using his TSB 
credit card.
Mr N experienced issues with the car. He contacted the dealership but was unable to get 
things resolved so he obtained a quote and booked the car in for repairs at another garage.
Mr N contacted TSB and raised a section 75 claim. He sought a refund of the cost of repairs 
and disputed the deposit hed paid to the merchant. TSB asked Mr N to provide an 
independent report confirming what the faults were.
Mr N provided documents showing the quote for repairs and the cost of the repairs. TSB 
didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said it didnt have enough information to pursue a section 
75 claim.
Mr N remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Mr N hadnt provided evidence to 
show that the fault was present at the point of supply. The investigator said that without this 
evidence, TSB couldnt establish whether there had been a breach of contract.
Mr N didnt agree. He said hed notified TSB of his claim within 14 days of purchasing the car 
and said hed provided a quote for repairs at that time. Mr N said the quote for repairs 
showed that the faults were present at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ns complaint I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that TSBs response to the claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
If the car supplied to Mr N had a fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality then a breach of 
contract can be said to have occurred , which would give Mr N a potential claim under 
section 75.
Ive reviewed all of the information that Mr N provided to TSB to support his section 75 claim. 
The quotation and repair documents show that the car had an issue with the wipers, the 
headlights and the air conditioning. I can also see that all four tyres were replaced.
The documentation shows that the car had some repairs carried out on it. But it doesnt 
establish that the issues were faults which were present or developing at the point of supply, 
or that these were faults which made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
I can see that TSB asked Mr M to provided an independent engineers report to prove that 
the faults were present at the point of supply. Mr N hasnt provided an independent report of 
this type. In the circumstances, I think TSB acted reasonably when it rejected the section 75 
claim, because it didnt have enough evidence to show that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply, and that there had therefore been a breach of contract.
For these reasons, I dont uphold the complaint. I think TSBs response to the section 75 
claim was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman