DRN-3412992
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants a refund of his policy excess and compensation for the increase 
in his premium.
What happened
Mr N said a delivery driver reversed into his parked car and he made a claim on his policy. 
He caught the other car on CCTV and provided photographs of the driver, but not the cars 
registration number. Aviva investigated the claim but couldnt identify the driver. It said the 
claim would be recorded as a fault and Mr N must pay his policy excess. It also said the 
uninsured driver promise didnt apply as the driver hadnt been identified. Mr N was unhappy 
with the progress of the claim and Avivas lack of updates. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
had reasonably investigated the claim and relied on legal advice that there was no 
reasonable prospect of success in defending it. He thought the claim was correctly recorded 
as fault as Aviva hadnt recovered its outlay and the uninsured driver promise didnt apply. 
He thought the policys terms and conditions required the policy excess to be paid. And he 
couldnt say whether the fault claim had caused another insurer to increase Mr Ns premium. 
Mr N replied that he thought Aviva should have done more to identify the delivery driver. He 
also said that if he had been told the claim would be recorded as fault he wouldnt have 
proceeded with it. Mr N asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a stressful experience for Mr N. I can understand that Mr N feels 
frustrated that a fault claim was recorded against him when his car had been hit by a delivery 
car and the driver had driven off. But a fault claim doesnt mean that Mr N was to blame for 
the collision, just that Aviva was unable to recover its outlay for the claim.
Mr N said that he was sure that when he notified Aviva of the claim he was told it would be 
recorded as non-fault. But I can see that hes now been provided with a recording of this call. 
And I think the agent clearly explained that the claim would be fault because Aviva would be 
paying the claim, but it had no certainty of recovering the loss. 
The agent then went on to say that if the registration number of the delivery car could be 
discovered and if the other insurer agreed to pay the claim, the basis would be changed to 
non-fault. So I cant say that Aviva misled Mr N about how the claim would be recorded.
Mr N was unhappy that Aviva didnt do enough to identify the other driver. Mr N provided 
CCTV footage obtained from a neighbour and photographs of the driver. The footage was 
taken at night and the cars registration cant be seen. Aviva instructed solicitors to act on its 
behalf. I can see that Mr N contacted the drivers employer to try and identify him, but this 
was unsuccessful. Mr N said the employer told him the driver had only been with it for a 
short time. The employer said it didnt insure its drivers. Mr N reported the matter to the 
police and the solicitors said it would contact the police. But I cant see that the police made 
any further enquiries. 
Its not for Aviva to carry out criminal investigations. And it couldnt compel the employer to 
release information about the employee. So Aviva had no identification for the driver and so 
it couldnt identify his insurer. This meant it had no prospect of recovering its losses. 
In that case. I think the claim was correctly recorded as a fault on Mr Ns record. The policy 
excess is always the first part of a claim to be paid. So I think Aviva correctly required Mr N 
to pay his policy excess. And, as the other driver wasnt identified, Mr N cant recover this as 
an uninsured loss.
Mr N had protected NCD and so this one claim wouldnt affect his NCD with Aviva. But Mr N 
would still have to report the fault to the insurer for another of his vehicles. I cant comment 
on the premium this insurer then charged as the protected NCD was with Aviva and they are 
separate businesses. 
Mr N thought the uninsured driver promise should apply. But, as our Investigator and Aviva 
have explained, the policy terms and conditions state that this only applies where the 
uninsured driver is identified and can be contacted. So Im satisfied that Aviva correctly said 
this didnt apply to Mr Ns claim. 
Mr N was concerned that it took so long to resolve the claim. But I dont think this is unusual 
where there are complex claims and solicitors are involved. I wouldnt expect Aviva to keep 
Mr N updated unless it had anything to report. So I cant say that it should have 
communicated with him more frequently.
I can see that Mr N was unhappy with the solicitors involvement in the claim. But, as our 
Investigator has already explained, we are unable to consider this as solicitors dont fall 
within our jurisdiction. So Mr N should complain to the solicitors directly if he remains 
unhappy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman