DRN-3386429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about how Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G) treated 
them when they applied for further borrowing on their lifetime mortgage. They say the 
surveyor undervalued their property which resulted in their application being declined. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs P took out a lifetime mortgage with L&G. In 2021 they applied - through 
a broker - for additional borrowing. As part of this process, a valuation was carried out. 
L&G instructed an independent firm of Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
qualified surveyors to conduct the valuation. The result of which produced a value of 
£165,000  which is less than Mr and Mrs P thought their property was worth, especially as 
they had spent money on improvements following the purchase in 2018.
Mr and Mrs P appealed the valuation and supplied details of comparable properties. This 
was reviewed by L&G and the surveyor but ultimately didnt change the surveyors valuation.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint. L&G replied but didnt uphold the 
complaint and said it didnt act unfairly in relying on the surveyors valuation to make its 
lending decision. 
Mr and Mr P referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the matter 
but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling about what happened. And I can 
understand that it must have been disappointing that the valuation came back lower than 
they expected. But, as Ill explain, I dont think L&G did anything wrong. 
I can only look at the acts and omissions of L&G. The valuation was carried out by a third 
party. So L&G wasnt responsible for the content of the report, the valuation or the surveyors 
conduct. The valuation was carried out by a suitably qualified surveyor and I cant see that 
there were any clear errors in the report or any other reason why L&G should not accept 
what the surveyor said and base its decision on his valuation. I havent seen any evidence of 
wrongdoing in this regard. 
When Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the valuation L&G offered its valuation appeals process 
and referred the matter back to the valuers. Mr and Mrs P provided sale prices of 
comparable properties in the area. 
The surveyor took these into account and commented that two of the examples provided 
were for bungalows and another for a property that sold 18 months prior. And so these didnt 
change his opinion of the valuation of Mr and Mrs Ps property. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ps comments in regard to the difficulties in finding sale prices of 
comparable properties due to a delay in house sale details on HM Land Registry as a result 
of the coronavirus pandemic. Ive thought about this carefully and whilst I can appreciate 
their frustrations, I dont think I can fairly hold L&G responsible for this. 
The surveyor used the information available at the time to reach his conclusion as to the 
valuation and although I can understand Mr and Mrs Ps disappointment at the limitations in 
challenging this, I dont think this means the valuation was necessarily wrong. It was 
conducted by a qualified surveyor. 
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs P provided a market estimation from an estate agent. Whilst 
helpful, its important to note that an estate agent valuation and a surveyors valuation are 
not the same thing. An estate agents valuation is an estimation of what price the property 
could be marketed at for sale purposes. 
And whilst I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps understandable disappointment  especially as 
they had spent money on home improvements - I dont consider it unreasonable for L&G to 
rely on the surveyors valuation for its lending decision.
Here, the purpose of the valuation report was for L&G to decide if the property had increased 
sufficiently in value to allow further borrowing on Mr and Mrs Ps lifetime mortgage. It was 
reasonable for it to charge Mr and Mrs P the cost of obtaining the valuation  even if Mr and 
Mrs P dont agree with it. As L&G hasnt made a mistake in this regard, I dont think I can 
fairly tell it to refund the fee or pay Mr and Mrs P any compensation. 
Finally, Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ps comments that L&G should not have been able to provide 
this product initially if it is not prepared to offer further advances. Ive considered the 
mortgage offer and I think its sets out clearly that applications for further advances will be 
considered but are not guaranteed. 
Here, L&G considered the application but as the valuation didnt return the figure that Mr and 
Mrs P, along with their broker, were hoping for  ultimately declined it. As Ive said, I dont 
think it treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly when it did this. A lender does not have to provide 
further borrowing and its not for this service to force it to do so.  
It may be that a valuation conducted now would return a different figure in the current market 
and I would expect L&G to treat any further applications that Mr and Mrs P may wish to 
make fairly. 
In summary, whilst I can appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, 
having considered everything, I dont think that L&G has treated them unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman