DRN-4260429
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax irresponsibly gave him a credit 
card he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr S applied for a Halifax credit card. He was given a credit limit of 
£4,000. The limit was never increased. Mr S complained to Halifax in early 2023 to say that 
the credit card should never have been approved. He said that at the time of the application 
he was overdrawn on his current account (held with the Bank of Scotland group) and this 
should have shown Halifax he couldnt afford the credit. 
Halifax didnt think it had acted unfairly in lending to Mr S. It said that Mr S declared an 
annual income of £69,000 on his application (or around £4,000 per month) and monthly 
expenditure of £1,150. Halifax says it also estimated his essential living costs as £1,040 per 
month (using statistical data). It said this left him with a monthly disposable income of around 
£1,800. It said it therefore considered the credit limit to be affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that Halifax had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and there wasnt anything in 
those checks that suggested it made an unfair lending decision. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting credit, Halifax needed to ensure Mr S could afford the borrowing. There isnt 
a set list of checks it needed to carry out, but the checks it did had to be proportionate to the 
specific circumstances of the lending decision. What is proportionate will therefore vary in 
each case and deciding what checks were proportionate, Halifax needed to take into 
account things such as (but not limited to): the amount borrowed, the type of credit, the size 
of any regular repayments (for credit cards this includes the ability to repay the entire credit 
limit in a reasonable period of time), the cost of the credit and the consumers 
circumstances.
As Ive set out above, as part of the application Mr S declared a monthly income of around 
£4,000 and monthly expenditure of around £1,150. Halifax calculated a monthly disposable 
income of around £1,800. Mr S says that Halifax should have taken into consideration the 
activity on his current account  and in particular his overdraft borrowing  as that account 
was held within the same banking group. I agree with Mr S that Halifax were required to take 
into account what it knew about its customer already, which would have included other 
existing and historic lending. And I can see that Halifax could see that he held a current 
account within the same banking group. 
It isnt clear to what extent Halifax took this into consideration at the time of the application 
(although it says it used this account data to inform its internal credit scoring). However, as 
the information was available to it, Ive assumed it formed part of its assessment of 
creditworthiness and if it didnt, it should have. So, I consider the account activity relevant to 
my decision about whether Halifax acted fairly. 
Taking into account what Mr S declared on the application, the credit check Halifax 
completed, the statistical data it used to estimate living costs and Mr S account activity, 
I think Halifax gathered (or had available) a reasonable and proportionate amount of 
information to adequately assess whether the credit might be affordable. 
Ive therefore considered whether Halifax made a fair lending decision based on what it 
could see (or ought to have seen). 
I can see that what Mr S declared about his income was broadly accurate and his bank 
statements demonstrate this. However, he had underdeclared his expenditure. He had 
additional regular credit commitments which totalled around £450 per month that he hadnt 
declared on the application. However, it appears that even with these additional payments 
(and taking into account his committed essential spending) he still had sufficient disposable 
income to sustainably afford a credit limit of £4,000. 
Mr S says that his overdraft usage ought to have concerned Halifax and prompted it not to 
lend to him. While I agree that in some cases prolonged and heavy reliance of an overdraft  
particularly where there hasnt been any positive balance for a significant period of time  
ought to raise some concern regarding affordability of more credit. However, Mr S 
statements dont show this.  
When considering Mr S overdraft usage, Ive not seen enough to suggest his utilisation was 
such that Halifax ought not to have proceeded with the application. Mr S had a regular and 
significantly above average income. His credit record appeared to show no signs of financial 
difficulty or over-reliance on credit. Further, while Mr S overdraft usage increased in the two 
to three months prior to his credit card application, his monthly income (and what appeared 
to be his disposable income) was enough to make significant repayments towards that 
borrowing and ensure he was clear of his overdraft relatively quickly. He had previously 
maintained a positive balance regularly on the account and there didnt appear to be any 
significant changes in his essential committed expenditure. So, I dont think Halifax acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in concluding that the new credit appeared affordable.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman