DRN-3688669
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax hasnt refunded money he says he 
lost to two merchants as a result of a scam.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In December 2016 Mr S made two transactions for a total of £1,000 to a merchant, Ill refer 
to as A. In 2017 Mr S contacted Halifax to see if he could get his money back. He told 
Halifax that he thought A was running a scam. When Halifax said it couldnt return Mr Ss 
money he raised a complaint. 
Halifax considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It sent a final response letter  dated 17 
October 2017  telling Mr S it didnt think it did anything wrong and it couldnt raise a s.75 
claim for the transactions he had made. 
In April 2018 Mr S made a payment of £200 to another merchant, Ill refer to as B. In May 
2021 Mr S wrote a letter of complaint to Halifax about both A and B. He said he had made 
payments to both under false pretences and that Halifax was therefore liable for the 
payments because it failed to stop the payments from being made. 
On 18 August 2021 Halifax issued a final response letter to Mr S in relation to the points he 
had raised about the payments to both A and B. But Halifax confirmed that Mr S was out of 
time to raise a complaint to this service about A and this service wouldnt have its permission 
to consider this complaint. Halifax added this service had its permission to consider the 
complaint about his payments to B. 
In September 2021, Mr S remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
said A was scam company and that his money should be returned. He said that B was 
potentially a clone company of a regulated company of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and that the real company didnt have the correct regulatory rights with the FCA to 
trade in binary options  which is what he wanted to trade. 
The Investigator said Mr S had brought his complaint about the payments he made to A out 
of time because he hadnt brought his complaint to this service within six months of Halifaxs 
final response letter  dated 17 October 2017. And the Investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld in relation to B. She had contacted the regulated company B, who 
confirmed that it held accounts in Mr Ss name. So, she didnt think Mr S had sent money to 
a scam company. 
The investigator added that Mr S had raised a chargeback with Halifax for the payment he 
made to B, out of time, and it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to not raise a s.75 claim due to 
Mr S having insufficient evidence for a misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
Mr S disagreed. He said his transactions to A should be considered by this service and that 
B wasnt regulated to sell or trade binary options  only CFDs. So, he said he has been 
misled by B and it closed his account down without returning his money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Payments to A
The rules that govern this service say that, where a business doesnt consent, I cant 
consider a complaint which is referred to the Financial Ombudsman more than six months 
after the date a final response letter is sent to Mr S advising him that he may refer the 
complaint to this service. 
When Mr S made a complaint to Halifax in 2017 about the transactions he made to A he was 
issued with a final response letter  dated 17 October 2017. Ive reviewed this letter and it 
clearly gave Mr S a deadline of six months to bring his complaint to this service. But I cant 
see any evidence that Mr S brought his complaint to this service in time. Im satisfied Mr S 
brought his complaint to this service in September 2021  which is more than six months 
after Halifaxs final response in October 2017. 
I can see that Mr S raised the complaint again with Halifax in 2021, but Halifax didnt issue 
new referral rights in its letter, dated 18 August 2021. Instead, Im satisfied Halifax was clear 
that it wasnt providing new referral rights and this service wouldnt have Halifaxs permission 
to investigate that part of Mr Ss complaint. 
I can help with complaints referred outside of the usual time limits where Im satisfied that 
this was due to exceptional circumstances. But because Mr S hasnt said any apply here, I 
cant consider these. 
So my decision is that I dont have the power to consider Mr Ss complaint in relation to the 
payments he made to A because its been brought to us outside the time limits set out in our 
rules. And Im not persuaded that failure to complain within the time limits was due to 
exceptional circumstances.
The payment made to B
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr S has highlighted) to 
be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must be whether 
B were operating a scam as Mr S alleges. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Mr S has said that B wasnt regulated with the FCA for the trading of binary options on its 
platform and he was tricked into thinking it was. I dont think that is persuasive evidence that 
B scammed Mr S or it tricked him. And B has provided evidence that Mr Ss trading account 
received £200 in April 2018. If Mr S remains unhappy then he will have to continue to pursue 
a complaint against B in relation to what he says he was told about trading with its platform 
and he is unhappy with his account being closed down.
Chargeback and S.75 in relation to the payment to B
Halifax has said Mr S didnt bring his claim to it in time to make a chargeback. Mr S had 120 
days from the date he expected to receive the merchandise or services  and up to 540 days 
from the date of the original transaction. And because the claim wasnt raised with Halifax 
until May 2021 then Im satisfied Halifax has fairly said Mr S was out of time to raise a 
chargeback here. 
Halifax didnt think Mr S had the necessary evidence to raise a s.75 claim. And after 
considering the evidence Ive seen, I dont think thats an unfair decision. In order to 
successfully raise a s.75 claim there must be the following;
For section 75 to apply there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000. 
Mr Ss payment meet the criteria for points 1, 2 and 4 above. But Mr S says B doesnt have 
the correct regulations to trade in binary options and that it made him think it was a 
legitimate binary options trading platform so it has misrepresented itself to him. For a 
successful claim for misrepresentation Mr S would firstly have to show B misrepresented to 
him that it was a binary options trader and that it made a false statement of fact. 
B has been regulated by the FCA since 2001. Prior to January 2018 binary options was 
regulated in the UK by the Gambling Commission. The FCA then took on the regulation of 
binary options firms. On 2 July 2018 the European Security and Markets Authority issued a 
temporary ban on most binary options trading across the EU. The FCA went further on 2 
April 2019, permanently banning all binary options trading, marketing and sale in the UK. 
Mr S made the payment to B in April 2018 when B was regulated with the FCA and before a 
ban for firms that offered binary options came into force in the UK.
Overall, B was a regulated firm and opened an account for Mr S to make binary options 
trades  which is what Mr S has said he wanted to do. And so, Im not satisfied that Mr S has evidenced that B misrepresented itself to him or that it breached its contract with him. As a 
result, I dont think Halifax treated Mr S unfairly when it said the necessary evidence wasnt 
available to make a successful s.75 claim. 
My final decision
My final decision in relation to the payment Mr S made to B is that I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman