DRN-4265910
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the outcome of a claim he made to Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited  
trading as Omni Capital (Omni) in respect of a service he financed with it.
What happened
Mr L had a driveway installed which he paid for using a fixed sum loan from Omni. Omni 
made payment to an organisation (who I will refer to as K) which then passed payment on 
to the installer (who I will refer to as the supplier) which had the agreement with Mr L for the 
service.
Mr L was not happy with the installation and raised it with Omni. In summary, he says that 
the finish of the job is poor, particularly at parts of the edges  this has led to drainage issues 
and his fence getting wet and possibly causing long term damage. He says that the supplier 
should have installed block paving around these edges.
Omni considered the claim in respect of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75 and CCA). However, it declined the claim. It said there was not the correct 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for Mr L to have a valid Section 75 claim.
Mr L was not happy with this and the complaint about Omnis handling of the Section 75 
claim came to our service to look at.
Our investigator disagreed with Omni and upheld the complaint. In summary, she thought 
there was the correct debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for Mr L to have a valid Section 75 
claim against Omni. She said the supplier had likely agreed to put block paving around all 
the edges but had failed to do this. She told Mr L to get two quotes for the work to be done 
for Omni to choose one to pay.
Mr L contacted a company who assessed the driveway and indicated that more extensive 
work was required to put things right and the driveway needed to be re-laid. 
The matter has now come to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter not upholding the complaint which said:
This service resolves disputes informally  so while I have read and considered the evidence 
I will only comment on the things I consider central to the complaint.
Does Section 75 apply here?
Section 75 can allow Mr L to hold Omni liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by a supplier paid using its finance product. 
There are certain technical requirements for a valid Section 75 claim. These are set out in 
law and one is for there to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier or DCS agreement.
Omni highlights that the fixed sum loan paperwork shows it was arranged between Mr L and 
K, while the contract for the driveway work was between Mr L and the supplier. It says this 
means there isnt a valid DCS agreement for a Section 75 claim.
In my role as an informal dispute resolution service I dont consider it necessary to go into 
this in great detail here. The reason is that I dont think there is a clear breach of contract by 
the supplier in any event - so the matter of the DCS agreement falls away somewhat.
However, I have given this some consideration. And on the face of it, noting the 
requirements of Section 75 and the CCA I think there is likely to be a valid DCS agreement 
here. I say this because, in summary:
K despite being listed on the finance as a retailer does not appear to be the 
provider of services here  instead it appears to be a broker set up in such a way as 
to allow tradespersons (like the supplier) to accept payments from customers via 
finance agreements;
Omni is likely to be aware the nature of Ks role  being that it does not 
provide services itself but acts to effectively process payments on behalf of a range 
of traders which it has likely approved and vetted; and
as a result it would appear Omni would reasonably contemplate that in 
arranging finance with K it was doing so for the traders which K has an agreement 
with and whom Omni would be able to identify in any particular case - should it wish 
to. 
The above factors point to there being pre-existing arrangements between Omni and the 
supplier of services in line with the requirements of the CCA. Hence a persuasive argument 
to support the presence of a valid DCS agreement here. However, as I have already said  
based on my findings below this matter falls away in any event.
Has there been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier?
I dont think that misrepresentation is relevant here the allegations concern the quality of 
work and manner in which the contract was carried out (taking into account what was 
agreed). So I have focused on whether there is a breach of contract. However, for 
completeness I dont think there is compelling evidence of a misrepresentation in any event.
When looking at the provision of a service a breach of contract can arise either through an:
Expressly agreed term of the contract; or
an implied term which comes about by law.
In the case of the provision of a service the Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies a term that 
the service will be carried out with reasonable care and skill. While there is no specific 
definition of this it is generally taken to be the standard that would be expected in that 
particular industry. It is also important to note that assessing skill and care is not focused on 
the results  but the manner in which the service was carried out.
I am not an expert on driveways but looking at the photos of the work I accept that the finish 
around certain edges of the tarmac looks somewhat erratic and not neat - particularly around 
the edges where it meets the fence. I also accept there are questions over the proximity of 
the tarmac to the fence and the impact that might have over time on the fence.However, this is not a straightforward case because of evidence which our investigator has 
gathered and which I cant see that Mr L volunteered originally. This indicates that the 
agreed finish of the driveway was impacted by other events. 
The supplier has explained that it started the job and laid the groundwork then left site to 
continue the work the next day. On return to the site it said that Mr L had got an electrician in 
to do work for some feature lighting and there were wires everywhere. The supplier has said 
this was not discussed at the outset and it told him that the final finish would not now be 
good around the edges due to the need to avoid cabling. It offered to return Mr L's deposit 
and not finish the job. 
It says that Mr L wanted it to finish the job, but due to his interference it had him specifically 
agree to this on the basis that there were going to be imperfections and the risk of further 
damage.
Supporting the testimony of the supplier is what appears to be a disclaimer that Mr L signed 
to confirm this understanding. It is on the suppliers headed paper and says:
Disclaimer
I Mr L agree to sign this disclaimer stating that supplier will not be held responsible for any 
damages or imperfections to the lights, cables or tar-mac involved in the extra work carried 
out that was not in the contract agreed.
Mr L has indicated this only covers damage to the electrical work  but I dont think it does. It 
appears to relate to imperfections to the overall finish of the tarmac driveway too. 
What appears to have happened here is that Mr L has discussed and verbally agreed a 
variation to the contract with the supplier (later confirmed by the signed disclaimer). This 
dispute is focused on the edging of the driveway  and that appears to be what the suppliers 
testimony and disclaimer relates to. I also note that several pictures appear to show wires 
coming out of the ground close to the edges of the tarmac  reinforcing the suppliers 
account of the situation.
This is not a straightforward case of a possibly poorly laid driveway  but apparently a 
situation where Mr L was willing to accept imperfections and the risk of damage in the finish 
due to the work of the electrical contractor he involved without consent of the supplier. Mr L 
said the supplier knew about the electrical work from the outset  but that isnt supported by 
the disclaimer he has signed or reflected in the paperwork for the initial agreement. I also 
question why Mr L had apparently not mentioned the disclaimer or the conversations he had 
about the electrical work prior to our investigator finding out details about this. It seems of 
importance considering what has occurred here.
There has been some lack of clarity as to whether Mr L agreed blocking to all sides of the 
driveway at the outset  it isnt clear if he asked for this and I note K initially indicated that it 
thought this wasnt agreed . However, K acting as an intermediary in the dispute appears to 
have focused on there being no blocking accounted/priced for in the paperwork. I accept that 
the paperwork isnt entirely clear on this so I can see how this might have been the initial 
conclusion. But whether it was specified or not that doesnt mean that laying down block 
paving on the edges would not have been reasonably expected as good practice in certain 
situations. However, the supplier has now confirmed to our investigator that it wasnt 
possible to finish the edging with block in certain places due to the presence of the electrical 
work which Mr Ls contractor had done. Which takes us back to the conversation that appears to have occurred between Mr L and the supplier and led to new terms of work being 
agreed.
Mr L does not accept that it was not possible to do the edging with block paving. He has 
produced photos which he says show that the cables are not right near the edge of the drive. 
However, it isnt disputed that there is wiring in that vicinity.  And these photos are not useful 
in showing me the possible unseen obstacles and other considerations that the supplier had 
in finishing the job and/or providing a finish edged in block paving. 
In any event the circumstances the supplier has described and the disclaimer Mr L signed 
confirming the agreed variation to the contract show at the very least that the parties 
accepted the job wasnt going to be finished as they had initially planned. It appears the 
supplier had agreed with Mr L to effectively make the best of a less than ideal situation. I 
think it likely had Mr L wanted a job priced up with the considerations around the electrics  it 
would have involved further planning and expense that had not been factored in previously. 
So it is difficult for me to say it is a breach of contract for the supplier to finish the job the way 
it has for the originally agreed price.
I also note Mr L appears to have signed a satisfaction note with K to confirm the installation 
was performed as agreed. Mr L has indicated that he signed this before the work was 
finished so the supplier could get paid but that isnt clear to me. Overall, it adds further 
question marks over what happened here and why Mr L was apparently happy to sign a 
satisfaction note when he claims parts of the job had not been done as agreed  particularly 
something that would have been as clearly visible as the absence of block paving. 
I also dont see where Mr L raised the issue immediately with the supplier or finance 
company as I would have expected. From the evidence I have it appears that around a week 
after the work was complete he contacted K about it  K confirmed in an email to Omni that 
Mr L had said he hadnt yet been in touch with the supplier at that point.
Mr L has now provided a report to state the finish of the tarmac driveway is not up to 
standard including the edging and other areas. But I find this report to be unpersuasive in 
showing that the supplier has acted without reasonable care and skill in the particular 
circumstances here. It appears to lack detail about the issues or the credentials of the 
person preparing it. Nor does it appear to be an independent report  for example by a trade 
association or similarly appointed independent contractor. This combined with the 
circumstances which led to a disclaimer being signed make it particularly challenging using 
this report to determine a breach of contract by the supplier. 
In summary, while I think photographic evidence shows the finish of certain edges is 
imperfect there is compelling evidence to show Mr L arranged work on the site which 
interfered with the end finish of the driveway. This is not to say that Mr L doesnt possibly 
have a valid claim against the supplier regardless of this disclaimer - but it fundamentally 
muddies the situation here. This service is not able to summon and cross examine witnesses 
or experts. Nor am I an expert in the particular field. I am left to determine what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for the financial business to do. And based on what I know, 
and considering my role I cannot fairly conclude that there is a breach of contract here which 
Omni needs to remedy via Section 75.
My decision is likely to disappoint Mr L  it doesnt mean he cant pursue the supplier in court 
if he wishes. And considering the nature of the dispute that might be something which Mr L 
wishes to explore. It will ultimately be up to him to decide if he wants to do this  and seek 
any legal advice he considers necessary.I asked the parties for their responses.
Omni accepted my provisional findings.
Mr L did not accept these. In summary, he says he has given a lot of evidence and had 
others look at the job and everyone says the same about the work that has been done. He 
feels ripped off and the matter has caused him a lot of stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the stress Mr L described in his response. However, I dont think he 
has submitted any new information which changes my view on what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
I consider that I have already addressed everything in some detail in my provisional findings 
(as copied above) and I still consider these to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As a result, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons already 
given in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman