DRN-4418338
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) deactivated their savings account 
without notifying them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a joint Post Office instant savings account. Mr S said they hadnt 
received any correspondence regarding the account since they opened it. He said he later 
contacted BOI to enquire about the account and he was provided with a new pin number for 
it, but he subsequently found out that BOI had deactivated the account. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to BOI that they werent informed before it deactivated their 
account. They were also unhappy that they had to provide proof of identity and fill out an 
application to reactivate the account. They said the process required them to stand in long 
queues at the local branch to have their documents certified.
BOI explained that it had regularly sent them account statements, and it had also sent letters 
to inform Mr and Mrs S that the account would be deactivated. However, it paid them £50 
compensation because it recognised that they didnt receive the letter confirming the account 
had been reactivated, and for incorrect information it had given to Mr S during a telephone 
call. 
Mr S referred the complaint to our service because he didnt think the compensation BOI 
paid them was sufficient. He said it ought to have sent the deactivation letters by recorded 
delivery to ensure they received them.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said on balance, she was 
satisfied BOI did send letters to Mr and Mrs S and said it couldnt be held responsible if they 
werent received. She also thought BOI had acted in line with the terms and condition and 
given clear instructions regarding the deactivation process in its letters. Our investigator 
thought BOI couldve sent the reactivation letter sooner and explained things better when it 
provided Mr and Mrs S with a new PIN number, but she thought it had fairly compensated 
them for the errors it made.   
Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion. He says BOI should be penalised if it cant 
produce actual copies of the letters it sent before it deactivated the account. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
BOI already accepts it made some errors and compensated Mr and Mrs S for what it thought 
went wrong. What I must consider here is whether it treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and 
reasonably when it deactivated their account and if its fairly compensated them for the errors 
it made. 
Deactivation
BOI couldnt provide copies of the correspondence it says it sent to Mr and Mrs S prior to 
deactivating their account. Businesses arent required to hold information indefinitely. 
Considering its been over ten years since the account was opened and more than six years 
since it was deactivated, I dont think its unreasonable that it couldnt provide copies of the 
letters it sent. However, its provided screen shots from its internal systems which show it 
regularly sent statements to Mr and Mrs S before it deactivated their account. 
There is no dispute Mr and Mrs S hadnt accessed their account since it opened, and its not 
unusual for a business to deactivate an account when theres been no activity on it for 
several years. However, I would expect BOI to have notified Mr and Mrs S before doing so. 
The screen shots it provided show it sent Mr and Mrs S a letter to inform them the account 
would be deactivated and a subsequent letter once it was done. 
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt receive the letters, and I accept this. But on balance, Im 
satisfied BOI wrote to Mr and Mrs S regarding their account and I cant hold it responsible if 
they didnt receive the letters. Its also provided example of the letters it sends to  customers 
before it deactivates an account. Im persuaded the letter  makes the process clear. 
I think its important to explain that I understand that Mr S thinks BOI ought to have sent the 
letters by recorded delivery, to ensure they received them, but I dont think it had to. Whether 
it chooses to send letters by recorded delivery, is a business decision it is entitled to make. 
And Its not something we as a service would look to interfere with. Im satisfied its shown 
the correspondence was sent to the correct address which is the same address Mr and Mrs 
S provided to our service and in their application to reopen the account. Ultimately, Im 
satisfied BOI did enough to make Mr and Mrs S aware of the action it was taking before it 
deactivated their account.
Reactivation process
Considering Mr and Mrs Ss account had been inactive for several years, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for BOI to carry out checks before reopening it. I appreciate it will have been 
frustrating and somewhat inconvenient, but I dont find it unreasonable that BOI asked for 
identification documents as part of the process.  
However, BOI recognised the service Mr and Mrs S received when they were reinstating 
their account was not as it should have been. Once the account was made active, it ought to 
have written to Mr and Mrs S to let them know. Its not clear whether it did send the letter at 
the time, but I can see that following a phone call with Mr S, the letter was regenerated and 
sent to them, and I find the matter was resolved in good time. BOI also acknowledges Mr S 
was given incorrect information during a phone call. Its already paid Mr and Mrs S £50 
compensation and Im satisfied thats fair in all the circumstances. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think BOI needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman