DRN-4222665
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Helvetia Global Solutions Limited refused to replace her water-
damaged floor after its engineers tried to repair her boiler. 
Mr H acted on Miss Hs behalf in raising the complaint. As she is the named policyholder, 
and for ease of reading, Ill refer just to Miss H throughout.
What happened
Miss H had boiler and home cover underwritten by Helvetia.
She claimed under her policy when she spotted a small leak from her boiler and her heating 
wasnt working properly. Helvetia sent its first engineer to complete a repair, followed by 
further visits from other engineers over the next few days. During that time, Miss H says her 
home was damaged by a further escape of water.
The details are well known so I wont repeat them here. Instead, Ill set out the reasons for 
my decision below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will be disappointing for Miss H, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why.
My role is to decide whether Helvetia unfairly refused to pay towards replacing damaged 
flooring caused by the leak from Miss Hs boiler. To uphold Miss Hs complaint, Id need to 
see evidence which persuades me that Helvetia did something wrong. Ive relied on all the 
evidence submitted by both Miss H and Helvetia to reach my decision, but Ill only comment 
on specific evidence if I think it helps explain my decision. 
Boiler repair
The main issue of complaint is that Miss H thinks Helvetia didnt repair her boiler properly on 
the first visit, allowing water to escape and flood her home. Helvetia doesnt think theres any 
conclusive evidence to suggest it caused the leak.
Looking at the evidence, Miss H said the second engineer blamed the first for not attaching 
clips properly. The first engineer reported that the clips were replaced and the leak had 
stopped when he left. The job sheet completed by the second engineer said the clips were 
damaged by the high pressure, which contradicts the comment Miss H says he made on the 
day. On further checks, the first engineer reported that if there had been any issue with the 
clips, it would have been evident almost immediately rather than two days later. 
While Im not doubting what Miss H heard, the documented evidence completed at the time 
of repair tells a different story. On balance, I find the documented evidence prepared on the 
day by the engineers more persuasive than Miss Hs recollection of the conversation. 
Therefore, I see no reason to hold Helvetia responsible for the subsequent boiler leak.
Water-damaged flooring
Although I dont think Helvetia can reasonably be held responsible for the leak, Ive looked at 
the evidence in respect of the damaged flooring to see whether its responsible for any costs. 
The first engineer took photos of the floor on arrival for the repair visit, and there are further 
photos from subsequent engineer visits. Miss H provided photos of the flooring, mould on 
surrounding areas, and a video of the flooded kitchen floor.
Helvetia declined to offer assistance with the replacement flooring because it believed the 
damage had happened over a much longer period. Looking at the timelines provided by both 
Miss H and Helvetia, I can see that the leak started two days after the first repair  Miss H 
reported hearing it start so it hadnt been ongoing during the two days before. Helvetia went 
out the same day to stop the leak.
When Miss H called Helvetia about the permanent repair and to say her floor was damaged, 
Helvetia asked for photos of the damage. Miss H sent the photos within a couple of hours of 
the call, which was on the evening of the same day the leak started.
It seems theres no dispute about the overall timeline of events, or that water damaged the 
floor. However, on consideration of the photos and reported evidence, Im persuaded by 
Helvetias explanation that the floor was likely damaged over a much longer period than a 
few hours. Therefore, Im satisfied that Helvetia reasonably refused to offer any contribution 
towards the replacement flooring. 
Boiler replacement
Helvetia deemed the boiler beyond economical repair (BER), refusing to carry out any more 
repairs. To try to resolve matters, it then agreed to try another repair. However, the repair 
was unsuccessful, so Helvetia offered Miss H a replacement boiler.
Miss H thinks that Helvetia only replaced her boiler because it was accountable for the leaks 
and resulting damage.
Ive looked at the cover available to Miss H under her boiler and home policy. Page 11 of the 
policy booklet states that it covers:
A replacement for your boiler if we cannot repair it and:
-it is less than seven years old
Miss Hs boiler was deemed to be around six years old. Therefore, Im satisfied Helvetia 
replaced the boiler in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, rather than to address 
any accountability for the leak.
Overall, the evidence weighs in favour of Helvetias explanation of events, so I cant 
reasonably conclude that it did anything wrong by refusing to pay towards new flooring.
If she hasnt done so already, Miss H may wish to consider whether cover is available to her 
under her buildings and contents insurance.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman