DRN-2557504
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly 
turned down its business protection insurance claim. 
Mr M, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
T held a business protection insurance policy with AXA. Mr M made a claim on that policy to 
cover Ts losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national Government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AXA declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr M 
didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Diseases and Denial of Access, meant Ts claim should be covered.
Mr M complained to AXA but it explained that, although the policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain Infectious Diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr M wasnt happy with that response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Ts situation, he didnt think there was cover available under the 
policy. Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is looking to claim on Ts business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether AXA acted fairly in declining their claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy Mr M took out. 
Ts policy included cover for Diseases. The policy states that it would provide cover in 
respect of interruption of or interference with The Business conducted by You at The 
Premises as a result ofthe occurrence of any of the following specified human infectious 
or human contagious diseasesmanifested by any person whilst at The Premises or within 
a 25 mile radius of it.
The wording of the term sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered under the 
policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AXA would have known about when the policy 
was drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that did provide cover for 
the pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ts policy sets out a specific list of 
illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is 
nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of 
the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Ive also considered whether COVID-19 might fall under Plague which is one of the 
illnesses specified in the list of illnesses covered, but I dont think it does. The policy doesnt 
define Plague, but it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious disease 
in its own right. Plague appears as a specified disease in the Governments list of notifiable 
diseases and is caused by a specific bacterium. In contrast COVID-19 is a viral infection. So, 
having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used 
in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague. 
And, whilst I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary 
definition as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would 
render the list AXA has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the 
specified illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as AXA has. 
 
So overall I think the fact that Plague is listed separately in the policy and is different in 
nature to COVID-19 is enough for me to determine that COVID-19 does not fall within the 
term Plague in the policy and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to treat the policy as if it did. 
Ts policy also provides cover for business interruption resulting from Damage and Denial of 
Access. However, I dont think anything in the wording extends to damage caused to the 
business itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a 
Government-imposed act. Rather, they refer to physical damage or loss and I havent seen 
anything to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these 
sections cover Mr Ms claim.
I have also considered whether the policys Public Emergency extension would provide 
cover. The policy provides cover for loss resulting from interruption to or interference with 
the Business at the Premises in consequence of the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property, in the vicinity of the 
Premises excluding:infectious or contagious disease.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) states that Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an 
infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus. So I am satisfied that COVID-
19 is an infectious disease and caught by this exclusion and therefore, I dont think cover is 
available for these circumstances under this section of the policy.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on T. But for 
the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont 
think AXA acted unfairly in declining this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman