DRN-2909712
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent a requested transfer twice to the intended 
recipient, causing double the intended amount of money to be transferred.
What happened
Mr A instructed Barclays to transfer £300 to a third party. However, Mr A later discovered 
that Barclays had affected the transfer twice, meaning that a total of £600 had been 
transferred out of his account. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr As complaint. They acknowledged that an error had been made by 
themselves and they offered to reimburse Mr A the £300 that shouldnt have been 
transferred, and to pay an additional £50 to Mr A to compensate him for any inconvenience 
incurred. 
Mr A didnt feel that Barclays response went far enough, so he continued with his referral of 
his complaint to this service  which had been made before Mr A received Barclays 
complaint response. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the corrective action and 
offer of compensation already made by Barclays represented a fair outcome to what had 
taken place, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as this  where a business has acknowledged that it made an error  
what this service would expect would be that the business would take the corrective steps 
necessary to rectify its error, and if appropriate, make a further offer of payment to their 
customer to fairly compensate them for any distress and inconvenience the matter may have 
caused.
I think that Barclays have done that here. Theyve offered to reimburse Mr A the £300 that 
was incorrectly transferred, meaning that Mr A wont have incurred any financial loss 
because of what took place, and theyve also offered to make a payment of £50 to Mr A for 
any trouble and upset he may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as such by another party. But the £50 
compensation payment that Barclays have offered Mr A does feel fair to me, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances 
here. 
Im aware that Mr A feels that Barclays only upheld his complaint because he referred his 
complaint to this service. However, Im not convinced that this is the case, and I note that 
even if it was, Barclays would be entitled to take such a cause of action if they chose to do 
so. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that the complaint response that Barclays have already 
issued to Mr A here, including the offer to reimburse the £300 that was wrongly transferred, 
and the offer of £50 compensation, does represent a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time  beyond 
that to which theyve already agreed. 
I hope that Mr A will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman