DRN-2905639
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC failed to follow his instruction to take the 
minimum payment for his credit card by direct debit on the 28th day of each month. He says 
their errors caused him to incur late payment fees, adversely affected his credit file, and 
caused him anxiety and distress.
What happened
Mr A updated his title on his current account and wrote to his credit card provider, Tesco, 
asking them to update his direct debit details. In his letter, dated 9 November 2020, he 
explained that hed not changed his name, only his title had been added to the current 
account from which he paid his credit card bill. He enclosed a copy of his passport which 
showed his title. Mr A has said he wasnt asking Tesco to change the name on his credit 
card account, just update the direct debit instruction theyd send to his paying bank.
When Mr A didnt receive a reply from Tesco he wrote again on 23 November 2020 
expressing concern that a direct debit had not been set up for the 28th of each month as per 
his instructions.
On 3 December 2020 Mr A called Tesco to ask why no direct debit had been set up. Ive 
listened to a recording of that call. The Tesco agent offered to set up the direct debit but 
explained this wouldnt collect the payment due on 10 December. Mr A said he couldnt pay 
this amount another way and said Tesco should have set up his direct debit as requested by 
now. As the agent referred to changing the name on his credit card account, Mr A also made 
it clear he wasnt looking to do this, only update the direct debit mandate to match the title on 
his paying bank account. The call ended with the agent saying hed look into how to make 
the changes Mr A was requesting.
Tescos system notes show the agent tried to call Mr A back later on 3 December 2020 to let 
him know that they couldnt update his title as requested because it contained too many 
characters. As there was no answer, they left a voicemail message. Mr A has said he didnt 
receive this.
Mr A wrote to Tesco again on 11 December 2020. He said:
 the onus is on your company to take the payments on the 28th [of] each month by 
direct debit  there is no other method of payment that I will permit to cover your 
companys maladministration.
On 15 December 2020 Tesco sent Mr A a notification that, as he hadnt paid the amount due 
on 10 December, hed been charged a late payment fee.
Mr A then spoke with Tesco again (Tescos notes suggest this call took place on 
13 December, Mr As notes say it was 28 December). He says he was told his change of 
name had not been approved but that a direct debit had been set up to take the payment 
due on 9 January 2021. Unhappy with this date he says he instructed his paying bank not to 
pay it, to protect his bank account and avoid any overdrawn charges happening.
Tesco have said that during this call Mr A raised a complaint and again requested his direct 
debit be changed to the 28th of the month. They say he was told the payment due on 
10 December was still outstanding and that hed need to bring the account up to date but 
that theyd refund the late payment fee on this occasion. They say it was also explained to 
him that to change his payment due date the statement produced on 15 December 2020 
would have an early payment due date of 4 January 2021. A statement would then be 
produced on the first working day of 2021 (Monday, 4 January) with a payment due date of 
29 January 2021 (not the 28th because the system needed 25 days after the statement 
date).
Tesco responded to Mr As complaint in late December. They said:
Mr As direct debit had been cancelled by his paying bank in October 2020 so 
payments needed to be made manually;
Mr A had manually made the minimum payment due on 9 November;
Mr As letter of 9 November was not received by them until 17 November (too late to 
change the payment arrangements for the payment due on 10 December);
They left a voicemail for Mr A on 27 November to discuss his letter;
On 13 December the payment date was changed to the 29th of the month but hed 
been told this wouldnt take effect until 29 January 2021 and so the payments due on 
10 December and 4 January would still need to be paid manually;
They were unable to change the title on his credit card account as it had too many 
characters;
When they tried to set up the direct debit for 29 January 2021 this was cancelled by 
Mr As paying bank; and
They suspected the reason the paying bank was rejecting the direct debit instructions 
was due to Mr A using his full first name on his credit card account and only initials 
on his paying bank account, and not related to his changed title.
Tesco offered Mr A £50 to recognise that they could have been clearer about why they were 
struggling to change his title sooner, and to compensate him for the cost of the calls hed 
had to make. Tesco explained that until a direct debit had been successfully set up all 
payments would be required manually.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with this response and didnt accept the £50. Tesco replied to him 
again on 21 January 2021 explaining:
With regards to your Direct Debit, we've been instructed the reason it's being 
cancelled is because the name on your Tesco Bank credit card doesn't match the 
name on your nominated bank account. I understand you believe this not to be the 
case; however, I'm not able to offer anything else as that's the information we've 
been given.
Tesco also said theyd refunded the late payment fees and not reported any late payment 
information to Mr As credit file.
What Mr A told usMr A provided us with a copy of his credit file from February 2021 which showed a missed 
payment on his credit card. He said a minimum of £450 compensation would be appropriate, 
along with the removal of any adverse information from his credit file.
What Tesco told us
Tesco explained that they wrote to Mr A on 12 October 2020 advising him that his paying 
bank had cancelled his direct debit and hed have to make his payments another way.
They explained that when they received Mr As letter on 17 November 2020 it was referred 
to their fraud team so that checks could be carried out to ensure the paying account 
belonged to Mr A. These checks were passed, but as their system couldnt support changing 
Mr As title to match that on his paying account (because of its length) they tried to contact 
him by phone and letter. They then spoke with Mr A on 3 December 2020.
Tesco said it was explained to Mr A during a call on 13 December 2020 that the payment 
due on 10 December was still outstanding. As they received no payment they reported it to 
credit reference agencies. They told us they would not be removing that information as it 
was accurate.
Tesco explained that their system is designed to collect payment 25 days after the statement 
is produced, hence it wasnt possible to make the payment due date the 28th of the month 
until the statement production date was changed to 4 January 2021 (which then made the 
payment due date the 29 January 2021).
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She said the evidence showed Tesco had 
made efforts to get in touch with Mr A on 27 November 2020. She agreed it took ten days for 
Tesco to try contacting Mr A after receiving his first letter and said they didnt explain clearly 
that what he wanted to happen meant updating the name on his credit card account too. But 
she didnt think further compensation was warranted.
She also noted that even if Tesco had acted sooner after it received Mr As first letter, it still 
wouldnt have been possible to make the necessary changes in time for the payment due on 
10 December 2020. That payment would always have needed to be made manually 
because Mr As letter wasnt received until after his statement had been produced.
Finally, she thought it was fair that Tesco had reported a late payment to credit reference 
agencies because Mr A hadnt made the payment due on 10 December, even though hed 
been told it wouldnt be taken by direct debit.
Mr A didnt accept this. He said Tesco had delayed actioning his request and he didnt 
believe theyd tried to contact him as theyd said. He also pointed out that Tesco had told 
him, in their letter of 21 January 2021, that no adverse information had been reported to his 
credit file when in fact it had.
Tesco confirmed theyd reported the missed payment to credit reference agencies because 
Mr A didnt make his credit card payment in December 2020. They said theyd look into why 
he was told otherwise as a separate complaint.
As Mr A didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr As complaint, which I appreciate will come as 
disappointing news. Ill explain why.
Our role is to consider whether financial businesses, in this case Tesco, have acted 
appropriately in the circumstances of a complaint. Where they havent, we have to consider 
the consequences of that error and try to put the complainant back in the position they would 
otherwise have been in.
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly that he did all he could to ensure his credit card payments 
were taken by direct debit when they became due after 9 November 2020, and that the 
reason that didnt happen is solely due to administrative failings on the part of Tesco. But 
whilst Im satisfied Mr A did what he could to give Tesco his authority to debit his paying 
account, I dont think Tesco did anything wrong which resulted in the direct debit not being 
set up to take payments before 29 January 2021. And ultimately it seems that it was Mr As 
paying bank that wouldnt allow Tesco to take payments by direct debit.
The usual process for setting up a direct debit is for a payer to get in touch with the 
organisation they want to pay (the payee  in this case, Tesco) and for the payer to complete 
a direct debit instruction which includes their name, address, the name and address of their 
paying bank, their paying bank sort code and account number, and details of the name(s) on 
the paying account. The payee then forwards the instruction (mandate) to the paying bank 
and, if its accepted by the paying bank, the direct debit is used by the payee to collect future 
payments. The payee must then give the payer advance notice of collection dates and 
amounts, but apart from making sure they have enough money in the paying account when 
the payment is due, the payer usually has nothing more to do.
Its clear that Mr A did write to Tesco providing enough details for the direct debit instruction 
and specifying his preferred payment date. And I have no reason to doubt that he posted 
that letter on, or very shortly after, the day it was written. But Ive seen a date stamped copy 
of the letter which Im satisfied demonstrates Tesco didnt receive it until 17 November 2020. 
Although I agree with Mr A that this does seem like a long time for a letter to reach its 
destination, I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest Tesco were responsible for that 
delay.
As Tesco didnt receive Mr As letter until 17 November 2020 it was already too late to make 
any changes in time for the payment due on 10 December. So, although I agree that Tesco 
could have tried to contact Mr A sooner than 10 days after receiving his letter, I dont think 
this delay was the reason the direct debit wasnt set up in time.
I also dont think that by writing a letter giving his authority for Tesco to claim his credit card 
payments from his paying account, and posting it, Mr A was absolved of his responsibility to 
ensure he made his credit card payments when they became due. Until hed had 
confirmation from either his paying bank or Tesco that his direct debit instruction had been 
successful, I think it would have been reasonable for him to have arranged to make his 
payments another way. His statements made it clear that he could pay in a variety of ways 
including by cheque, debit card or bank transfer. I note that Mr A manually paid the payment 
due on 9 November 2020 and made a further manual payment on 11 January 2021. So, I 
find that he knew how to pay his bill in the absence of a direct debit.
Mr A was aware as early as 3 December 2020 that his request for the direct debit to be set 
up and timed for the 28th of each month was not a straightforward one for Tesco to action 
and that it wouldnt be resolved in time for 10 December. He was later made aware that the first payment to be collected by direct debit would be the one due on 29 January 2021. So, I 
think Tesco did enough to let him know hed have to make his payments manually until at 
least that point. I note that Tesco were prepared to collect the amount due on the 
15 December 2020 statement by direct debit on 9 January 2021, but Mr A himself cancelled 
that instruction with his bank, as it wasnt the 28th of the month.
I understand this isnt the way Mr A wanted to manage his credit card payments; he simply 
wanted to pay by direct debit on the 28th of the month from November onwards. But I dont 
think Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Tesco were being asked to submit a direct 
debit instruction to a paying bank where there was a mismatch between their customers title 
and the title on the paying account, and the resolution to this was proving problematic 
because Mr As updated title was too long for Tescos system to accommodate. They were 
also being asked to move the payment due date to the 28th of the month which meant 
changing the statement production date to on, or close to, the 3rd of the month (25 days 
before the 28th). I think these changes were always going to need some time to put into 
effect, and it was likely Mr A would have to meet his contractual obligation to make his 
payments by a different method in the meantime.
Overall, I dont think Tesco unreasonably delayed either changing the payment due date or 
setting up a direct debit for Mr A. I also dont think they acted unfairly by reporting factually 
accurate information about Mr As payments to credit reference agencies. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.
Tesco have already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint. Mr A should contact 
Tesco directly if he now wishes to accept this.
For the sake of clarity, I have not considered whether Tesco gave Mr A incorrect information 
on 21 January 2021 in relation to the reporting on his credit file. Tesco have said theyre 
considering this as a separate complaint so Mr A will have an opportunity to refer that 
complaint to this service, separate to this current complaint, if hes unhappy with Tescos 
response.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC and I dont think they need to do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman