DRN-3125078
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected their claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought solar panels for their home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr 
and Mrs W into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs W, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Shawbrook responded only to ask for more information, 
which had already been provided and was provided again, but since then weve had no 
response. So, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs W was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr and Mrs W fairly and they lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by 
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr 
and Mrs W from the solar panels over a ten-year period so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs W is paying (or has paid) more than they 
should have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the calculation 
show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should 
be shared with Mr and Mrs W by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr and Mrs Ws loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs W in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs W have the following options as 
to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs W and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs W and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs W accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs W has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest.
If Mr and Mrs W has settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance, to Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs W paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs W receives their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs W paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs W receives their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs W first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman