DRN-1540890
The complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the 
vehicle.
What happened
Mr S tells us that he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call B, in June 2018 after there 
had been a delay since he ordered it in March. He says hes had numerous issues with the 
vehicle including the car shuddering; failed battery; faulty fuel gauge; info system fault; and 
ECU failure. He says hes taken the vehicle for repairs to B and another approved garage 
which Ill refer to as N. In addition to the loss of use of the vehicle, Mr S is also claiming 
some consequential losses. These include time off work and costs associated with an injury 
allegedly caused by the vehicle unexpectedly losing power and coming to an unexpected 
emergency stop.
FCA said it had contacted B requesting details about the various dates of repairs. It said it 
had been informed that other than scheduled services, a battery had been replaced under 
warranty in May 2019. And in early August the vehicle had been seen for an air bag software 
recall. Towards the end of August it said the vehicle had been recovered following a 
breakdown and subsequently the ECU had been replaced. It reported the odometer reading 
as 19,069 miles at the time of breakdown. It said it had initially offered to refund half a 
monthly instalment (£227) but later increased this to one monthly payment.
Our investigator recommended that FCA should refund Mr S for those periods hed been 
unable to use the vehicle. And pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
When FCA responded saying that it would offer Mr S a refund of one monthly payment our 
investigator thought that this was a fair offer.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with this. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S doesnt think this vehicle, which was new when he acquired it, has 
performed as well as he expected. Hes recently advised us that he intends to terminate the 
agreement early. Thats clearly his choice. And the terms of the hire purchase agreement 
allow him to return the vehicle once 50 % of the finance agreement has been repaid.
Mr S hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. FCA supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Mr S complaint relates to numerous alleged faults with the vehicle which he doesnt feel is 
safe. Hes also seeking compensation for his additional costs which he states arose from the 
faults.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ill deal briefly with some aspects mentioned by Mr S which Im not able to look at. Im unable 
to assess if any compensation is due for personal injury or consequential losses arising from 
this. If Mr S wishes to pursue such a claim then he would need to do so through some other 
process.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use (if any) and 
durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. After that it would be 
necessary for the consumer to show that any faults - which meant that the vehicle didnt 
conform to contract - were present at the point of supply.
The vehicle was supplied new in June 2018. And Ive not seen the relevant job cards relating 
to the issues which have been reported. I dont think that makes any material difference to 
my decision for reasons Ill explain. 
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
It seems that Mr S took the vehicle back to B and N on various occasions about issues hed 
experienced. Hes helpfully provided me with a timeline which indicates that he first 
complained about issues with the vehicle on 14 January 2019. He indicates there was a 
problem with the Infotainment system and the vehicle shuddering. No faults were seemingly 
identified by B. 
In March he reported a fault with the fuel gauge (no fault found) and the alarm going off 
(sensor replaced). His timeline then refers to the battery and ECU being replaced. And he 
suggests the reason for the recall referred to by FCA was to do with the fuel gauge and not 
air bag.
Mr S complaint was received by FCA on 28 August 2019 after the most recent breakdown. 
And at that time he sought to reject the vehicle.
From the above timeline it can be inferred that Mr S - whilst not necessarily satisfied with the vehicles performance - had continued to use it. And given the mileage covered, the issues 
experienced by the vehicle only compromised its performance to a limited extent. Ive been 
informed that Mr S was provided with a courtesy vehicle for some of the time he was unable 
to use his own vehicle. And whilst thats not ideal it does limit the degree of inconvenience 
he experienced.
Where a consumer wishes to reject goods it has to be shown that the vehicle didnt conform 
to contract due to issues present at the point of supply. And if repairs have been accepted  
as is the case here  it needs to be demonstrated that they have failed to return the vehicle 
to the required standard.
I dont find theres sufficient information to show that the vehicle didnt conform to contract at 
the point of supply or that repairs have failed. Ill explain why.
Up to the time of the August breakdown a battery had been replaced on warranty  a repair 
Mr S had accepted. I think Mr S is correct in his belief that the August 2019 recall was due to 
a software upgrade being required for the fuel gauge  not the airbag. Ive seen details of the 
relevant recall notice. Software upgrades arent usually considered to mean the vehicle 
wouldnt conform to contract. And the relevant upgrade was seemingly carried out before the 
latest breakdown.
It seems implausible to suggest that the vehicle could have covered over 19,000 miles if the 
ECU had been faulty at the point of supply. As its been replaced on warranty and theres 
insufficient information to show it was due to issues present at the point of supply, I dont find 
this would be sufficient ground to reject the vehicle at this stage.
I think that FCAs improved offer to refund one monthly payment is fair. Along with £100 for 
the inconvenience of Mr S not always being able to use his preferred vehicle I believe that it 
amounts to a fair and reasonable resolution for this complaint. 
Putting things right
  FCA should now:
1. Refund one monthly payment (£453.10) to Mr S;
2. Pay £100 compensation for inconvenience caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint in part. I 
require FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding 
paragraph. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman