DRN-3803087
The complaint
Ms B complains about the repairs Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) arranged following an 
accident she had when she was driving, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B says she collided with a parked car when reversing off her driveway. She accepts that
she was at fault. She made a claim to Aviva and it arranged for the repairs to be carried out.
When the car was returned Ms B noticed that a scratch from the accident hadnt been
repaired. She was told it would be arranged for the scratch to be, buffed out.
When driving the car Ms B also noticed the left indictor wasnt working properly. She
contacted Aviva and an engineer visited her the next day. He repaired the indicator, which
was due to a blown bulb. Ms B says the engineer indicated this wasnt related to the
accident, which she disputes.
After chasing, Ms B says the car was returned to the garage about two weeks later to repair
the remaining scratches. Ms B says she was provided with a larger hire car than she
expected and wasnt happy that she was advised there would be a £500 excess on the
vehicle, which required her to provide her credit card details.
The car was returned a few days later with the scratch still there. Ms B was told it couldnt be
polished out, but it wasnt part of the repair the garage had been instructed to perform. Ms B
complained to Aviva.
Aviva says the scratches to the rear quarter panel werent incident related. Its garage had
offered to buff out the scratches but, as this wasnt possible it wasnt able to cover the cost of
the repair. It apologised that it told Ms B a field engineer would inspect the damage when
this didnt happen. But it says it didnt think a further inspection was necessary.
Aviva says its hire car company provided an upgraded vehicle as it had no smaller cars left.
It says the company offers optional extras to customers such as the excess cover Ms B was
told about. It says it cant stop the company offering these extras, but they are optional for
customers to choose. It offered £75 compensation for setting expectations incorrectly and for
the inconvenience with the hire car being larger than Ms B expected or wanted.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says Avivas engineer advised the scratches
werent near the incident related damage on the rear bumper. She thought it was fair to offer
to buff out the scratches, but that Aviva wasnt responsible for these repairs. She says £75
compensation was reasonable to acknowledge the issue with managing Ms Bs
expectations.
Ms B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
Its been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Ms 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider whether Aviva behaved reasonably when arranging for the
repairs to Ms Bs car. We expect an insurer to arrange for effective repairs to be carried out
in a timely manner once a claim is accepted.
I can see that Ms B refers to an initial delay in having her car booked in with the garage
because of the Covid-19 pandemic. But once it was booked in her car was collected and she
was left with a hire car. The garage returned the car the following day having completed the
repairs, which I think is reasonable.
Avivas engineer offered to have the scratches buffed out. It took a further two weeks for the
car to be collected again. It wasnt until the garage inspected the scratches it decided this
wasnt part of the original repair and found that some of the scratches couldnt be buffed out
and would require painting.
Ive read the notes provided by Aviva. This includes reference to the indicator repair and the
scratches. With respect to the indicator  it says the bulb had blown, but that it had been
checked and was working when the car was returned to Ms B. However, it says the
scratches were, no-where near the incident damage on the rear bumper. The notes also
say that the garage has images of the vehicle when it came on site and the scratches were
present then.
Ms B says that the scratches were present on her car when it arrived at the garage, because
this was part of the damage caused in the accident. Ive thought about this point. I dont think
the images taken by the garage show the damage wasnt caused by the accident. But it
does show that the damage wasnt caused whilst the car was in the garage.
Ive seen the photos provided by Ms B. These show the scratches she has complained of.
However, as they were taken very close into the car I couldnt clearly identify where on the
car the scratches were located. I asked Ms B if she could provide more photos taken from
further away. I also asked Aviva for the images it had and an engineers report showing
where on the car the damage was located.
Ms B provided more photos of the scratches. From these I can see that the scratches are
located just above and to the rear of the passenger side rear wheel. Aviva didnt provide any
new photos. It did provide an engineers report. Under the heading vehicle condition, it
says:
Damage areas: F Left Hand Rear
Impact: From F Left Hand Rear to G Left Hand Side.
Theres no diagram showing where on the car the damage occurred. But I note the Repair
Information section of the report refers to wheel arch mouldings as having been included
as part of the repairs.
Ms B maintains that this part of her car was involved in the collision. I have no reason to
dispute her recollection and so its possible some damage was caused to this area at the
time of the accident.When Aviva contacted its garage, it was told the scratches were nowhere near the accident
damage on the rear bumper. But I cant be sure this is accurate based on the information
Ive seen. I have no reason to doubt Ms Bs recollection that there was damage caused to
this section of the car. And the report provided by the garage indicates repairs were carried
out to the area where the scratches complained about are located.
In circumstances where the evidence isnt clear I must make a decision based on the
balance of probabilities. That is what I think most likely happened based on the information
and testimony provided. I dont think Aviva has clearly shown that the scratches werent
caused during the accident. The wheel arch mouldings are positioned close to where the
scratches are located. So, I think its fair that the business arranges for the repairs to be
carried out.
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Ms B. Its clearly been frustrating for her that
her car still has scratched paintwork, and she has been inconvenienced by the ongoing
contact with Aviva when attempting to have the repairs completed. In the circumstances I
think £150 in total, represents fair compensation for these issues. This includes the £75 she
has already received.
I said I was intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited should:
arrange a suitable time for the scratches on Ms Bs car to be repaired; and
pay Ms B a total of £150 compensation for the inconvenience and frustration she was 
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva responded to say that it accepted the provisional decision but felt it would be better for 
Ms B to obtain estimates from her own choice of garage for it to agree to pay.
Ms B responded to say she accepted the provisional decision but asked if the repairs could 
be carried out at a garage of her choice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to amend the remedy slightly to reflect that both parties agree to the repairs 
being undertaken at a garage of Ms Bs choice. Ms B should provide an estimate for Aviva to 
agree the reasonable cost of the repairs. Otherwise, as both parties accept my findings my 
final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Aviva Insurance Limited should:
pay the cost of the scratches to be repaired on provision of a reasonable estimate; 
and
pay Ms B a total of £150 compensation for the inconvenience and frustration she was 
caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman