DRN-3224190
The complaint
Mr R and Ms P complain that Accord Mortgages Limited declined their application to port 
their mortgage. They believe it provided mis-leading information about the process for 
porting. And they are also unhappy with how long it took for Accord to reach a decision  as 
they felt it ought to have been able to explain the application did not meet its criteria much 
sooner.   
What happened
Mr R and Ms P had a mortgage with Accord that they took out in 2017, borrowing just under 
£477,000. The mortgage was sold by a third-party broker. The mortgage had a fixed rate of 
interest until July 2022. And if the mortgage was repaid before that time an early repayment 
charge (ERC) would apply.
Mr R and Ms P spoke to Accord in February and July 2020 and explained they were 
interested in porting their mortgage. They explained they intended to also reduce their 
borrowing. Accord explained that theyd be required to pay a partial ERC if they did so. Mr R 
and Ms P have said they were led to believe that porting would be a straightforward process. 
And based on this information, they began looking for a new property and marketed their 
existing one.
In August 2020, Mr R and Ms P spoke to Accord again, and said theyd accepted an offer on 
their property and had an offer accepted on a new property. So, wanted to proceed. Accord 
explained that a full mortgage application was needed as part of the porting process. It also 
explained that a mortgage adviser would not be available for several weeks. Mr R and Ms P 
then approached a broker to progress their application.
The broker submitted an application on their behalf in September 2020. This said that Mr R 
and Ms P were looking to reduce their borrowing to £285,000.
Accord declined the application for the amount requested. It said it did so as it considered 
this amount to be unaffordable, based on its lending criteria. It told the broker the maximum 
amount it was willing to lend was significantly below what had been requested. The broker 
then confirmed Mr R and Ms P would not be proceeding with the application.
Mr R and Ms P sold their existing property and repaid their Accord mortgage in full, incurring 
an ERC on the full balance. They had to withdraw from the purchase of their new property, 
which theyve said resulted in them incurring costs such as aborted legal fees, and moved 
into alternative accommodation. Theyve since purchased a different property, after obtaining 
a new mortgage from a different lender.
Mr R and Ms P complained to Accord about how it had handled matters. They said in the 
calls theyd had in February and July 2020 Accord had not been clear that a full mortgage 
application would be required in order to port. And they felt Accord gave misleading 
information in August 2020 about how long the application would take. They also felt Accord 
had taken an unnecessary amount of time to consider their application. And they were 
unhappy this application had been unsuccessful.
Accord said it didnt think it had done anything wrong, so the complaint was referred to our 
service.  
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. In respect of the calls between Accord 
and Mr R and Ms P, he felt the information provided about the porting application process 
couldve been clearer, particularly in the first call, in February 2020. He felt the information 
provided in August 2020 was clear and that Mr R and Ms P knew what the process entailed, 
and that the outcome of the application wasnt guaranteed, before proceeding. He also didnt 
think Accord had delayed the application when it was received or that it ought reasonably to 
have provided its decision sooner.
He did though think Accord had acted unfairly by declining the application to port on 
affordability grounds. This was because he felt, under the rules set by the regulator, a full 
affordability assessment was not required as the application to port and reduce the 
borrowing involved no material change to the affordability of the mortgage contract. He felt 
that, had Accord correctly considered this, the porting application shouldve gone ahead.
So, to put things right he recommended that Accord;
Refund the difference between the ERC that Mr R and Ms P did pay, on the full 
outstanding balance, and what they wouldve paid, the partial ERC based on the 
reduction in borrowing, plus 8% interest. 
Pay the difference in fees and costs between what Mr R and Ms P paid for their new 
mortgage and what the equivalent cost wouldve been if their application with Accord 
had gone ahead.  
Cover the costs incurred for the aborted property purchase as a result of the 
application being incorrectly declined  legal fees and survey costs.
Pay Mr R and Ms P £500 for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. 
Accord rejected the Investigators opinion. It said Mr R and Ms Ps circumstances, 
particularly their employment status, had changed between taking the original mortgage and 
the point they applied to port their mortgage. So it felt it had correctly declined the application 
on affordability grounds, in line with its lending criteria as there had been material changes.
As Accord did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R and Ms P have said it wasnt made clear to them by Accord until August 2020, when 
they said they wanted to go ahead and port their mortgage, that theyd need to make a full 
mortgage application. And they say they were led to believe it was a straightforward process.
An application to port a mortgage is not as straightforward as simply switching a mortgage 
from being secured against one property to another. It involves taking out a new mortgage. 
The new mortgage will usually retain features of the previous mortgage  most notably the 
interest rate deal. But it is a new mortgage. So, a full mortgage application is required.
Mr R and Ms Ps mortgage offer from 2017 did explain that being able to port the mortgage was subject to meeting the relevant criteria at the time this was requested. Which I think 
would clearly always need to have been considered. And I dont think Accord has done 
anything wrong by requiring a full application to be completed here.
Based on the information available, I dont think Mr R and Ms P were given any guarantee 
by Accord, when speaking to it, that the application to port would be successful. I also do 
understand the argument why, until they were wanting to proceed with the application, the 
earlier general discussions hadnt gone into as much detail. But I do think Accord couldve 
been clearer about the general process for a porting application, and what it involved, 
sooner. It was the expert in the situation. And Mr R and Ms P contacted it for an explanation. 
So, I think it couldve provided additional detail in the general discussions that took place, to 
make them aware that an application, and in particular a discussion with a mortgage adviser, 
was going to be required.
Mr R and Ms P have said that they think Accord needs to provide additional training to its 
staff about porting. But our service is not a regulator. And I cant require Accord to make 
procedural changes, such as this. 
Mr R and Ms P have also said they are unhappy with how long it took for Accord to give its 
decision on the porting application. They said they feel it couldve done this much sooner. 
But I dont think Accord has acted unfairly.
Accords notes show that it received the formal application, from Mr R and Ms Ps broker, in 
mid-September 2020. Additional information was requested from the broker and Mr Rs 
accountant within a matter of days. Accord records show that this wasnt received back until 
mid-October 2020, and a decision was reached less than a week later and communicated to 
the broker. I havent seen anything that leads me to question the timeline of events outlined 
in these notes. And so, I dont think Accord caused any unnecessary delays. 
I think it was reasonable that Accord needed to gather additional information before making 
a decision. And as it doesnt appear to have had complete information earlier, I dont think it 
was wrong not to have given its decision sooner. So, in terms of the time taken to assess the 
application, I think Accord has acted reasonably.
But, like our Investigator, although I dont think Accord delayed the assessment of the 
application to port the mortgage, I do think its decision to decline the application was unfair.
Accord has been clear that it turned down the application as it felt the requested mortgage 
was unaffordable based on Mr R and Ms Ps circumstances at the time they applied.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments  including around affordability aimed to protect consumers and 
encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules, in the Mortgage and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB), to address this.
One such rule, MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability 
assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage, there is no 
additional borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the 
mortgage that affect its affordability. The rules do not say that a lender must waive its affordability assessment. But Im of the 
view that, if the scenario allows an affordability assessment to be waived, it wouldnt be fair 
for Accord to decline an application solely on the basis of affordability. Which is what it has 
made clear has happened here.
Mr R and Ms P were not looking to borrow more money. In fact they were looking to reduce 
their borrowing significantly, by borrowing in the region of £140,000 less. And there were no 
other changes to the terms of the mortgage being requested. So, there were no changes 
being requested to the terms of the mortgage, material to affordability. As a result, Im 
satisfied that Accord was able to set aside an assessment of affordability.
Accord has argued that Mr R and Ms Ps employment circumstances were materially 
different in 2020 to when they took out the mortgage in 2017. But this is an affordability 
consideration. And again, the rules set by the FCA say that an assessment of this can be set 
aside, if there are no changes to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, 
which there werent here.
Now while the rules set by the FCA allowed Accord to set aside an affordability assessment, 
it still had a responsibility under the FCAs principles, to take account of Mr R and Ms Ps 
best interests. But I dont think it can reasonably be argued that what they were requesting 
was not in their best interests, even taking into account how their circumstances had 
changed. 
They already had a mortgage with Accord which they were required to repay. And I 
understand the balance was in excess of £425,000. Bearing in mind what Accords concerns 
were about, I dont think reducing the total amount Mr R and Ms P owed by approximately 
£140,000 could be said to not be in their best interests. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Accord has acted fairly when declining Mr R and 
Ms Ps application. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was any other reason the 
application would not have been agreed, if not for this unfair decision.
With that in mind, Ive thought about what a fair way would be to put things right.  
Putting things right
If the porting application had not been wrongly declined, Mr R and Ms P wouldve kept a 
mortgage with Accord. Our Investigator suggested that the remaining balance wouldve been 
in the region of £220,000, based on the discussions during the phone calls between Mr R 
and Ms P and Accord. But Im satisfied it would be appropriate to use the figure in the 
porting application itself, which was £285,000 as per the application made in September 
2020. 
So, rather than paying an ERC on the entire mortgage balance, theyd have just paid an 
ERC on the difference between £285,000 and the balance of their existing mortgage prior to 
porting  which I understand was in the region of £427,000. With that in mind, I think itd be 
fair for Accord to refund them the difference between what they did pay and what they ought 
to have paid, if not for Accords error. I also think itd be fair for Accord to pay 8% interest on 
this amount, from the date Mr R and Ms P paid the ERC, to the point Mr R and Ms P accept 
my decision  if they choose to do so.
Mr R and Ms P have said, because Accord declined their application, they had to withdraw 
from a property purchase. And theyve provided evidence that theyve since bought a 
separate property. I think it is reasonable to say that Accord declining the porting application 
was the cause of the purchase not proceeding. Theyve shown that they paid £450 for a survey in respect of the property that they had to abandon buying. And they incurred £240 in 
legal fees from withdrawing from that sale.
If Accord hadnt declined their application, and the purchase of the first property had 
proceeded, these costs would always have been incurred. And indeed, legal costs wouldve 
likely been a lot higher. But Mr R and Ms P wouldnt have then incurred equivalent legal 
costs or valuation fees in respect of the property that they have since bought. With this in 
mind, I think itd be fair for Accord to make a payment of £690, to cover the costs theyve 
evidenced.
As Ive mentioned, Mr R and Ms P have provided evidence that they have since taken out a 
mortgage with another lender, to purchase a property. And theyve shown they incurred fees 
of £1,690 from that lender, when taking the mortgage. If Accord had not declined their 
mortgage application these fees would not have been incurred. But I accept there mayve 
been some fees payable to Accord in respect of porting their existing mortgage deal. With 
this in mind, I think Accord should pay Mr R and Ms P the difference between the fees they 
paid to their new lender (£1,690) and the fees they wouldve been required to pay Accord if 
they had ported their mortgage. Accord should provide evidence to Mr R and Ms P to show 
what those costs wouldve been.
Lastly, I think Mr R and Ms P have been caused distress and inconvenience by how Accord 
has handled things. As Ive explained, I think Accord couldve explained the process for 
porting a mortgage in more detail, sooner than it did. Which I think caused unnecessary 
upset when it came to light that this was likely to be more protracted than Mr R and Ms P 
thought. I also think Mr R and Ms P have been caused inconvenience they otherwise 
wouldnt have incurred, through having to search for another property after their initial 
purchase fell through and having to apply for a mortgage with another lender. 
Our Investigator recommended that Accord make a payment of £500 to address the distress 
and inconvenience caused here. And based on all of the information Ive seen, I agree that 
would be fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right I order Accord Mortgages Limited to;
1. Refund Mr R and Ms P the difference between the ERC that they paid on the full 
balance of their mortgage and what they wouldve paid, if the application to port a 
balance of £285,000 had been successful. 
2. Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date the ERC was paid to the point that 
Mr R and Ms P accept my decision  if they choose to do so.
3. Pay Mr R and Ms P the difference between the fees that they paid to their new lender 
(£1,690) and the fees they wouldve been required to pay to Accord, if the porting 
application had gone ahead.
4. Pay Mr R and Ms P £690  representing a refund of the costs they incurred as a 
result of having to withdraw from a property purchase because of their application 
being declined.
5. Pay Mr R and Ms P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Accord should provide Mr R and Ms P calculations in respect of points 1,2 and 3 to show 
how the relevant amounts have been worked out.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman