DRN-2254022
The complaint
Mr P complains that CIS General Insurance Limited paid too much money to settle a third-
party car damage claim, after the car he was driving was involved in a minor collision.
What happened
Mr P insures his car with CIS. In August 2019, whilst very slowly reversing into a space in a 
supermarket car park, his car scraped the side of another car. Mr P and the other driver 
swapped insurance details, although Mr P suggested that hed pay for the damage, as it 
appeared it was cosmetic only. Mr P notified CIS of what happened but paid to fix the 
minimal damage done to his own car rather than submit a claim. 
Five months later, Mr P was contacted by CIS, to be told the other party had submitted a 
claim to their insurer, who had paid to fix the damage. And because the damage was caused 
by Mr P, CIS would be reimbursing the amount claimed, amounting to just over £1,800. CIS 
also told Mr P the incident would be recorded as a fault claim. 
Mr P was very unhappy with the amount being claimed by the third-party insurer, believing 
what they had claimed for was excessive given the damage caused. Mr P was angry that 
CIS had accepted the third party claim without seeking to challenge the cost and scope of 
the repairs undertaken, and so he complained to CIS. 
In their response, CIS advised the third-party claim was assessed by one of their own 
engineers, who had no concerns regarding the amounts being claimed. They also said they 
didnt think it necessary to inspect the third-partys vehicle. CIS acknowledged the amount 
may seem high, but it was in line with what theyd expect to pay in such circumstances. So, 
taken together, CIS was satisfied that they were right to settle the third party claim in the way 
they did. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to us, repeating his concern that CIS didnt 
challenge the claim amount, or inspect the third-party vehicle, and there was a long delay 
before the claim was reported. However, one of our investigators didnt think CIS had done 
anything wrong here  a CIS engineer reviewed and validated a report from the third-party 
insurer, which is what wed expect them to do. And the investigator didnt think the time 
taken for the claim to be finalised was a sign of any wrongdoing. Unhappy with this, Mr P 
asked an ombudsman to review his complaint, so its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why. 
All motor policies contain a term which allows an insurer to settle a claim as it sees fit. And 
because its a standard term, and not unusual, we dont expect CIS to have highlighted this 
to Mr P when the policy was taken out. And in choosing how to settle a third-party claim, it 
means that CIS doesnt need the agreement or consent of Mr P. 
That said, I still need to be satisfied that CIS acted fairly when settling the third party claim 
here and based its decision on the facts and evidence of the case. And here, I think it did. 
Its not in dispute that the collision was a minor one. Ive seen the photos taken by Mr P after 
the collision, and also the photos taken by the third partys repairer  they appear identical (a 
fact acknowledged by Mr P), and so there appears to be no issue regarding what damage 
was being repaired. 
Upon receiving the photos from the third-party insurer, one of CIS own engineers reviewed 
them, and the quotes for the repair work that was to be undertaken. That engineer was 
content with the scope and cost of the work  it was in line with what the engineer thought 
was reasonable in these circumstances - so approval was given. 
I do understand why the situation has been upsetting for Mr P  the photos of the third-party 
car do show minimal obvious damage. And I can see that, after exchanging details with the 
third party, Mr P offered to pay for the repairs at a local garage, to avoid the need for an 
insurance claim to be made. However, the third party was entitled to deal with the repairs via 
his insurer if he chose. 
I know Mr P takes issue with the cost of the works, but as Ive said, these were approved by 
CISs own engineer, having seen the photographs of the damage. Its worth mentioning here 
that insurers use approved repair companies to carry out works  repairers whose quality of 
work an insurer trusts, and whose work can be guaranteed. This means that the cost of a 
repair may well be higher than if an individual tried to source the repair at a local repairer. 
Mr P also raised a concern about the length of time it took for the third-party vehicle to be 
repaired. Whilst I acknowledge it took five months to arrange repairs, the photographs do 
appear to show it was only damage caused by Mr Ps collision that was being repaired, so I 
cant see there was anything untoward regarding the delay that CIS should have identified.   
Taken together, I can see no reason why CIS engineer would have had cause to question 
the legitimacy of the repair quote. The engineer was content with the works being 
undertaken, and the costs incurred. And that being the case, I dont think CIS did anything 
wrong here by settling the third party claim in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020. 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman