DRN-3052596
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Brightside Insurance Services Limited administered his taxi 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N was looking to buy a new vehicle, he called Brightside to arrange insurance. Brightside 
told Mr N that his current insurer wouldnt provide cover for the new vehicle and therefore he 
would need to have a new policy with a different insurer.
Unfortunately, on the morning Mr N was due to collect the new vehicle he was involved in an 
incident which he had to make the current insurer aware of. The third party had yet to make 
a claim against his policy and, should they have done so and this was accepted, it would 
have meant Mr Ns full annual premium became due to the insurer.
Mr N complains he wasnt told this by Brightside. He arranged a new policy for the new 
vehicle and was then, sometime later, also chased for the outstanding premium on his old 
policy as the third party had made a successful claim. Mr N says that had he been given the 
correct information he would have pulled out of the purchase of the new vehicle and 
Brightsides error has meant he has lost out financially.
Brightside agreed that its adviser should have made Mr N aware that his full premium may 
become due on his old policy. However, it doesnt accept Mr N has lost out. It pointed to the 
fact Mr N had already committed to buy the new vehicle and would therefore have needed a 
new policy in any event. It offered Mr N £75 compensation. Mr N didnt accept this and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Having spoken to 
Mr N he understood that in the meantime, Mr N had insured his old taxi privately as the 
vehicle he had previously been using on a private basis was no longer roadworthy. The 
investigator therefore thought had Mr N been given the correct information, he wouldnt have 
done this so recommended Brightside reimburse Mr N the cost of the private insurance 
policy he took out in addition to paying compensation. His reasoning was that Mr N would 
have pulled out of the purchase of the new vehicle and kept the old taxi insured, utilising the 
full benefit of the policy. He also believed given Mr Ns private vehicle wasnt roadworthy he 
would have cancelled the private policy at that time and therefore not incurred any additional 
cost.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 27 August 2021. In it is said I intended 
to uphold the complaint, but for the following reasons was minded to change the way in 
which Brightside should put the matter right. 
Brightside has admitted it didnt give the correct information to Mr N, so my role here is to 
decide how the matter should be put right.
I appreciate it would have come as quite a shock to Mr N to be told he needed to pay quite a 
significant amount of money for his old insurance policy. And that he quite rightly would have 
been disappointed to find out this was the case. So, I do think Mr N is due some 
compensation for this.
However, having considered everything Im only intending to ask Brightside to make a 
compensation payment to Mr N of £100 and nothing further. Ill explain why.
It was very unfortunate timing that Mr N was involved in the incident when he was. However, 
on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded he would have pulled out of the purchase 
of the new vehicle. Mr N has explained his private vehicle didnt have a MOT and would 
likely be scrapped and he went on to insure the old taxi vehicle privately. So, I think this 
lends to the fact he would always had two vehicles and therefore would have continued with 
the purchase.
In this instance I think it is more likely than not Mr N would have kept his old vehicle on 
cover, utilising the full benefit of the policy and either insured the new vehicle on a new 
commercial taxi policy or insured it privately. So, he would always have ended up paying out 
more money. Because of this, I dont think Brightside need to reimburse Mr N for any 
additional insurance premiums he has incurred.
As I have explained above, I do think this matter would have caused Mr N trouble and upset 
and therefore Im intended to direct Brightside to pay him £100 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision within the time limit given. Ive therefore 
moved to reconsider the file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and given no further evidence or arguments have been put forward for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
So, based on the reasoning set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct 
Brightside to pay Mr N £100 compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint against Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited. I direct it to pay Mr N £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman