DRN-3031648
summary and background of complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2008. The 
policy helped protect the credit card account holder against losing their job or being unable 
to work. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
Barclays didnt agree that we could look into the complaint about how the PPI was sold. It 
said Mr S had referred the complaint to us too late under the rules we operate by.   
However, Barclays subsequently offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums. It did this because it didnt tell Mr S about 
the high level of commission and profit-share he would pay, and that was unfair.
One of our adjudicators looked into this a while ago and they told Mr Ss representatives that 
they didnt think we could consider the complaint about how this policy was sold because it 
had been made out of time. They also said Barclayss offer of payment, regarding the 
commission element, was a fair way to resolve the complaint
Mr Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Its regrettable that the 
representative did not engage with what our adjudicator said about the time limit. Instead 
they reiterated that PPI was mis-sold. They didnt raise any new or additional points but 
effectively repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. For example, the rules applying to this 
service say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than 
six years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after 
the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of a cause for 
complaint. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. In this case Barclays hasnt agreed to us 
considering the complaint.  
Mr Ss complaint was made in March 2019. This is substantially more than six years after the 
policy was sold to him, in September 2008  which is the event complained of. I need to then 
also think about whether his complaint was made within three years of when he was aware, 
or ought reasonably to have been aware, of having cause to complain. Im afraid I think Mr S 
is also out of time on this part of the rules.
Barclays says it sent Mr S a letter on 26 April 2013 which alerted him to the possibility 
something might have gone wrong with the PPI sale. Ive seen a copy of the letter he would 
have been sent, which set out that the policy, when sold, should have been presented to him 
as optional. In my view, it sufficiently alerted him to the possibility that he may have cause to 
complain. So, given what Mr S is complaining about now, I think he should reasonably have 
been aware he had reason to complain, having got this letter. 
I think its clear enough in this case that Mr S would have been able to understand he could 
have made a complaint. I can see the letter was sent to the right address and I havent been 
told about any reason why Mr S might not have received it. So Im satisfied its most likely to 
have been delivered correctly. 
Three years from the letter is 26 April 2016, which under the rules, is when Mr S needed to 
make a complaint about the policy sale. As he didnt complain until after that date, in March 
2019, Im afraid his complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. But neither Mr S nor his 
representatives have given any such reasons for the delay. So Im sorry that were unable to 
help Mr S with the complaint about how this policy was sold.
non-disclosure of commission
Nevertheless, Ive gone on to consider the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness. Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Barclayss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mr S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mr S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ss representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mr S should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Barclays failed to tell Mr S about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr S wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing 
the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclayss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr S paid for the PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. So I consider that Barclayss offer of payment of an amount 
equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus 
associated interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
my decisionIm unable to consider Mr Ss complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). I 
understand the payment was forwarded to him in 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman