DRN-3716486
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy with the way BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) dealt with a claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I have a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA. 
Mrs I needed a procedure which BUPA authorised. Mrs Is consultant recommended 
specialist wound treatment before surgery which Mr I was asked to pay for. Mr I asked 
BUPA whether it would pay and was told dressings were excluded. 
Mr I complained and said the dressings and treatment were all part of the procedure and so 
should have been covered. BUPA contacted the consultant who confirmed the dressings 
were separate and not part of the procedure. So in its final response letter, BUPA 
maintained its stance. 
Mr I escalated his complaint to the directors office and sent copies of his invoices and a 
detailed letter explaining why he thought the exclusion didnt apply. He said Mrs I had a 
special procedure called debridement. BUPA reviewed the invoices and Mr Is letter and 
confirmed it would pay for the costs as they were nursing appointments rather than someone 
simply giving Mrs I a dressing. And said: As a gesture of goodwill, well pay them outside of 
your policy benefitsany other appointments of this type moving forwardwould usually be 
paid from your therapies allowance, which is £500 each policy year. 
Unhappy with this, Mr I referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong. 
Mr I disagreed and in summary said the exclusion relating to dressings is ambiguous and so 
should be construed in his favour. He said Mrs I had specialist wound care and not simply a 
dressing for out-patient use. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 September 2022 and I thank both parties for 
responding. Neither side has disagreed with my provisional decision and so I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings, which I adopt as my final decision. Ive set out my 
provisional decision in full below:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should deal with claims promptly 
and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms set out what is and isnt covered, which makes up the contract of insurance 
between Mr and Mrs I and BUPA. 
Exclusion 14 says:
We do not pay for any drugs or surgical dressings provided or prescribed for out-
patient treatment or for you to take home with you on leaving hospital or a treatment 
facility.
Mr I explained to BUPA that the dressings were part of the treatment recommended by the 
consultant and so should be covered. BUPA contacted the consultant who confirmed the 
dressings by the nurse were separate to the treatment by the consultant and that is why Mr I 
was charged directly. Up to this point, I agree that BUPA correctly explained that dressings 
werent covered and issued a final response letter dated 10 March 2021. 
Mr I accepts dressings arent covered. And replied to BUPA on 25 March 2021 with an 
explanation of the procedure Mrs I had, including the specialist wound care by the nurse. He 
also attached copies of his invoices. But he didnt receive a response. 
Mr I emailed the directors office in July, attaching a copy of his letter dated 25 March and 
asked for a reply. At this stage, BUPA accepted that the invoices could be paid as nursing 
appointments and agreed to pay them as a gesture of goodwill. 
I asked BUPA to explain what the effect of paying these invoices as a gesture of goodwill 
was. And why they werent paid from the therapies allowance. 
BUPA has replied to confirm that the invoices were paid as eligible claims from the therapies 
allowance and not as a gesture of goodwill (although Mr I was told this in an email dated 16 
July 2021). And BUPA said they were paid on receipt of information from Mr I in July 2021 
which explained in detail the treatment Mrs I had so it was able to establish that the dressing 
wasnt a standard out-patient dressing. 
But as set out above, Mr I provided the detailed explanation about the treatment on 25 
March 2021 at the latest and didnt receive a response. In my view, BUPA should have 
recognised the treatment Mrs I had wasnt simply a dressing when Mr I wrote on 25 March 
2021. But it wasnt until July 2021 that this happened when he emailed again. So there was 
a delay of around four months before the claim was accepted. Mr I also asked what BUPA 
meant by paying the claim as a gesture of goodwill but didnt receive an adequate 
explanation.
Im satisfied BUPA has paid the invoices correctly, in line with the policy terms so I dont 
think any further payment is due. But I do think Mr and Mrs I suffered unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience in having to chase this matter. And they were given incorrect information 
that the claim was paid as a gesture of goodwill. For the impact of this and the delay, I think 
BUPA should pay Mr and Mrs I £200.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct BUPA Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs I a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman