DRN-1221867
The complaint
Mr M complains he couldn't access his credit file through Transunion International UK 
Limited's website.
What happened
Mr M tried to access his credit report through Transunion's platform online on 2 July 2019. 
He received an error message saying there was a technical problem. Mr M has explained 
that he suffers from anxiety and needs instant access to his credit report when he wants to 
view it. And that because of the error, his anxiety became worse.
When Mr M complained to Transunion, it sent him a copy of his credit report, and apologised 
for the technical error. It also explained that Mr M was able to access his report successfully 
the following day on 3 July 2019.
Mr M complained to this service asking for compensation for the distress the error had 
caused him. Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She felt Transunion had done 
enough when Mr M alerted it to the problem. She also explained that the technical error 
hadn't been something that Transunion was aware of that day, and it may have been due to 
the browser Mr M was using - as the website wasn't optimised for his specific browser so 
errors may occur. But she felt that Transunion had acted quickly in providing Mr M's credit 
report and that Mr M hadn't suffered any financial loss due to the error.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's clear that Mr M feels strongly about this issue, and I can understand that he must have 
been worried when he wasn't able to access his credit file. But I don't think 
Transunion should do anything more to put things right so I'm not upholding this complaint. 
I'll explain why.
Mr M attempted to access his credit file online. And Transunion have explained that the 
browser he was using may have been the cause of the technical error. Websites are 
designed to work on different browsers. But Transunion's website isn't optimised for the 
browser Mr M was using. This means that whilst it can work, there might be errors. When Mr 
M alerted Transunion to the error, it couldn't replicate it. But it did to everything it could to put 
things right. It sent Mr M a copy of his credit file. And I'm pleased to see that Mr M could 
access his credit file the following day. So I think Transunion acted fairly when it knew there 
was an issue.
I understand that Mr M requires immediate access to his credit file, and that this error meant 
he didn't have this. But errors do occur when accessing information online, and Mr M has 
said he wasn't trying to apply for credit, and he was able to access his credit file the next 
day. So whilst I understand the issue caused Mr M some upset, I think Transunion acted fairly when it became aware there was a problem. And because it couldn't replicate the 
issue, I don't think this was an error that could've been foreseen or prevented. So I won't be 
asking Transunion to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman