DRN-4333944
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Finio Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable given his circumstances at the time and 
so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Finio Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £1,000.00 in December 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £107.84. One of our adjudicators reviewed what   
Mr C and Finio Loans had told us. And he didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be 
upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Finio Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Finio Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Finio Loans says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr C could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Finio Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Finio Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches. 
The output provided shows the unsecured credit commitments Mr C has referred to. But Im 
satisfied that these werent excessive in comparison to his income and what Mr C did have 
was relatively well maintained. 
For example, there were no defaulted accounts or other significant adverse credit 
information. Although I do accept that he had credit cards with balances approaching what 
were low credit limits. But this in isolation, or in combination with existing debts of around 
£5,000.00, wasnt a reason to automatically decline Mr Cs application. 
I accept that Mr C appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Finio Loans 
obtained. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And what Mr C now says simply wasnt reflected in the 
information Finio Loans obtained. 
The low amount being lent, the relatively low amount of the monthly payments together with 
the lack of obvious indicators of difficulty in the information Finio Loans did obtain, lead me 
to think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended further. At best, 
even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, which Im not necessarily 
persuaded is the case here, any such checks would only have gone as far as finding out 
more about Mr Cs regular living costs. And I dont think that obtaining bank statements was 
the only way that Finio Loans could have done this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Finio Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Finio Loans treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman