DRN-3544318
The complaint
Mr B complains Lloyds Bank Plc blocked a payment and as a result he lost over £13,000. Mr 
B complains that when he contacted the bank the call disconnected, and when he called 
back there was no detail saved of the original call. 
What happened
Mr B attempted two payments of £2000 to his trading account in June 2021. Mr B says the 
payments were declined by Lloyds and he didnt receive an SMS message to make him 
aware. 
Mr B says when the payments were declined he lost his position on the trading account. Mr 
B says he needed to have the funds paid in order to keep his trading position open. And so 
he lost over £13,000. 
When Mr B contacted Lloyds he was explaining what had happened and the call 
disconnected. Mr B says he didnt receive a call back. And that when he spoke to Lloyds 
again there was nothing saved on its system regarding the original call. Mr B says this added 
to his distress. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds. The bank said it uses anti-fraud systems to spot unusual or high-
risk activity on accounts. Lloyds said where the payment is a high-risk transaction its 
stopped for review pending customer contact and this is what happened here. So Lloyds 
didnt uphold this part of the complaint. It did, however, accept that when Mr Bs call was 
disconnected it should have saved any information that had already been discussed. But this 
didnt happen. And so Lloyds paid Mr B £30 to cover the cost of the additional calls in 
dealing with this. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the response from Lloyds and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said the evidence showed the bank 
stopped the transaction in line with its policy to protect its customers. The investigator also 
said she thought £30 was fair for the issues Mr B had with calling the bank. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. And so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, 
I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. And if 
I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I 
think is the right outcome. 
The relevant regulations require Lloyds to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. It also has a duty to protect the money in Mr Bs account from potential 
fraud. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account say Lloyds can refuse to make a payment if, 
internal security controls require you to produce additional identification or prevent us 
carrying out the transaction. The terms also say the bank will try and contact the customer 
to tell them it is declining the transaction unless the law prevents it from doing so. 
Lloyds said the transaction was blocked because a security alert was triggered. From what 
Ive seen Mr B attempted to make the payment but it was declined. An SMS was sent by 
Lloyds to Mr B to make him aware of the issue with the payment. Mr B attempted to make 
the payment again but it was declined. This time Lloyds didnt send Mr B a message, as per 
the terms of the account. Im satisfied Mr B would have been aware at this stage that the 
payment didnt go through. So I would have expected him to contact the bank to query the 
issue with the payment. But I cant see that he did this until August  some two months later. 
The block was removed by Lloyds the following day. 
Mr B has said the account the funds were being transferred to was one he had previously 
moved money to. But I dont think this means Lloyds shouldnt have taken the precautions it 
did. Fraud and scams are becoming increasingly common and more sophisticated. Lloyds 
has an obligation to protect Mr Bs money and try to prevent fraud. So I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to block the transaction while it took steps to review it.   
I know Mr B wants Lloyds to pay him the money he lost as a result of being unable to invest. 
But since I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here I cant ask it to refund Mr B. 
Mr B contacted Lloyds to find out why the payment had been declined. Unfortunately the call 
was disconnected. Lloyds explained the call centre was one that could only take inbound 
calls and so it wasnt possible to call Mr B back. So when Mr B did call back the agent wasnt 
aware of the issue since the details of the original call werent saved. Lloyds apologised for 
the service Mr B received here and paid him £30. I think the payment is fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
I appreciate the situation was frustrating for Mr B who was concerned about losing a 
potential opportunity because he wasnt able to pay his broker on time. But if Mr B had been 
the victim of fraud and Lloyds hadnt taken steps to prevent money being removed from his 
account, the consequences could have been far worse for Mr B. 
I am satisfied Lloyds has shown the block it put on the transaction was based on a genuine 
and legitimate concern for it to take the action it did. So although Mr B will have been 
frustrated by what happened here, Im satisfied Lloyds treated him fairly. Im not persuaded it 
made any errors by refusing the transaction and have paid him reasonable compensation for 
the poor service in respect of the call centre. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank Plc has already done to 
put things right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. And 
Im not requiring it to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman