DRN-2141844
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the customer service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation 
to his bank accounts after he was the victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr C has a number of accounts with HSBC. In late January 2020, he was apparently the 
victim of fraud, and a number of transactions were made from his accounts that he has said 
he didnt authorise. HSBC has refunded all of the sums taken, and this service has not been 
required to investigate the disputed transactions themselves. 
Mr C is unhappy with the actions taken by HSBC and with the customer service he received. 
Having reported the disputed transactions, his accounts were blocked and he was unable to 
access them in any way other than by going into branch. 
Some of the transactions were blocked and reversed the same day. But around £5,000 was 
taken. HSBC refunded about £3,350 of this within a few days. But the remaining balance 
was not refunded for around six weeks. It was also not until this point, in early March 2020, 
that Mr Cs accounts were unblocked.
Mr C had some difficulty speaking with the relevant departments in HSBC, and on at least 
one occasions he was transferred between at least four different departments in one call. 
With each member of staff Mr C had repeat the issues and events in question. Mr C also 
visited his local branch on a number of occasions to try and resolve the problems he was 
experiencing. And even the staff in branch had difficulties trying to speak to the relevant 
departments. He spent many hours on the phone and in branch, and has said this had an 
impact on his social activities and his work in a new role. 
He complained about this and HSBC acknowledged that it had not provided the service that 
could be expected, apologised for this and offered Mr C £100 in compensation. Mr C was 
not satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr C felt that he should be 
compensated £4,800 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him, the impact on his 
work and home life, and the loss of opportunity to invest. 
Our investigator didnt think £100 was enough to compensate Mr C in the circumstances. 
And HSBC agreed to increase its offer to £500, which our investigator felt was fair. She 
thought that Mr C had been greatly inconvenienced by not having access to his accounts for 
so long and in relation to the efforts he had to go to in order to resolve the issues. She did 
though think he could have accessed his money in branch, and this might have mitigated the 
situation. Mr C remained unsatisfied with this and felt that, based on examples on this 
services website, he should receive at least £2,000 compensation. So, his complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That Mr C received poor service from HSBC is not in dispute. HSBC has accepted that the 
service Mr C received fell way below the standard that could be expected to the extent 
where the case handler found it embarrassing. 
It is not unreasonable for a bank to block a customers accounts where there has been 
fraudulent activity. Indeed, this is a sensible precaution to protect the customer. But this 
situation should be resolved as swiftly as possible. In addition to the problems Mr C, and 
branch staff, experienced just trying to communicate with the appropriate department, it 
appears that the majority of the issues could have been resolved in early February 2020. 
However, it seems the relevant departments in HSBC did not communicate properly with 
Mr C or branch staff at this time. Had they done so, its likely the transactions would have 
been fully refunded and Mr C would have regained full access to his accounts at that point. 
So, the lack of access for the following month was entirely avoidable. Given this, and that the 
service Mr C had received up to this point was also poor, a considerable level of 
compensation is appropriate. 
However, I cannot agree with Mr C that this should be £4,800 or even £2,000. 
It is not clear what Mr C has based the first of these levels on. But he has referred to 
examples on this services website in relation to the second. The examples on our website 
are merely indications of what might be expected in certain, specific situations though and 
they do not act as defined categories. Our role is to determine the fair and reasonable level 
of compensation in the particular circumstances of each individual complaint. This includes 
not only the events in question, but also the circumstances of the people involved. 
I have noted the different effects Mr C has said these events had on him. It is self-evident 
that having the level of inconvenience he experienced at a time when he was in new 
employment was not desirable. And the amount of time he needed to take to deal with 
HSBC was significant, having an impact on his social activities as well. 
But I also agree with the investigator that Mr C could have withdrawn money or made 
transactions when he was in branch. So, whilst he borrowed from friends and family, this 
was, to an extent, his own choice. 
And I am also not persuaded that Mr C lost out on opportunities to invest as a result of the 
events. Not only would he have been able to transfer any money required in branch, it does 
not seem he chose to invest immediately after his account access was restored  at a time 
when markets were still favourable. 
So, taking everything into account, I consider that a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation is £500 in this particular case.My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc  has made an offer to pay £500. I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr C 
£500 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman