DRN-2414831
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declined a claim for damage caused 
by a leak from her boiler and provided poor service under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs H had her boiler serviced, but it broke down a few weeks later. Amtrust attended and 
made a repair and the boiler worked as normal afterwards. But a few weeks later hot water 
began pouring out of the boiler in the early hours of the morning. The water supply was 
turned off at the mains, but hot water continued to drain from the boiler, soaking walls, the 
kitchen worktop and a convection oven and microwave. 
Mrs H called Amtrusts emergency helpline and gave the details. She says she told it she 
was without running water and had children in the house. Amtrust said someone would call 
back to advise when an engineer would attend. Mrs H says she stayed up the rest of the 
night but Amtrust didnt call back, so she called again around 9.00 a.m. and was told no 
engineer had been booked. Amtrust said an engineer would attend between 12.00 and 6.00 
p.m. that day. 
Mrs Hs husband took the day off work and Mrs H went in late. When the engineer arrived, 
he discovered a pipe was disconnected and said another pipe was blocked. Mrs H says the 
engineer asked her husband where the securing clip for the disconnected pipe was. This 
couldnt be found so the engineer had to return the next day to finish the repair.
Mrs H says the clip must have been left off when the engineer fixed the boiler a few weeks 
earlier. She says the convection/microwave oven was ruined and the kitchen damaged and 
she and her family had been inconvenienced by not having heating and hot water for 36 
hours.
Mrs H complained to Amtrust, saying the problem must be due to the earlier repair being 
done incorrectly and that the emergency response provided wasnt adequate. Amtrust 
rejected the complaint saying it had acted appropriately in respect of the boiler. But it 
apologised for poor service when Mrs H made the emergency call in not immediately 
booking an engineer. It said it would waive two months premiums, £47.46 in total as 
compensation for this.
It said the earlier repair was unrelated to the failed connection clip and its engineer would 
have had no need to touch this part. And without the clip in place the failure would have 
occurred as soon as the heating was used not weeks later. It said push on clips can fail with 
age and it had advised at the last service, two months before the leak occurred, that the 
boiler should be replaced due to its age. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it. 
She said Amtrust had complied with the terms of the policy by attending within 24 hours of 
Mrs Hs emergency call. Our investigator said it didnt appear the leak was due to the earlier 
work of the engineer, given this was 17 days before. She said Amtrust didnt need to do 
anything further. Mrs H said the heating wasnt on all the time and the clip wouldnt have 
come loose by itself and the clip was missing from inside the cover so the engineer must be 
responsible.   
As Mrs H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs H as what happened was very distressing for her and 
her family. Whilst I dont think Amtrust is responsible for the flood and resulting damage it 
may be worth Mrs H exploring whether any other insurance she holds would cover the 
incident like a buildings and contents policy if she hasnt already considered this.
The Emergency Response
Amtrust accepts there was problem with a call out not being booked properly after Mrs Hs 
initial call. However, the terms and conditions of the policy says it will provide an emergency 
response within 24 hours of being called. And whilst Mrs H was disappointed by this initial 
response, Amtrust did send an engineer inside this timeframe. So, it hasnt treated Mrs H 
unreasonably here and it has apologised and offered compensation for this.
The Leak
Mrs Hs boiler is relatively old having been installed in 2002. It is of a design using many 
push fit clips to secure hoses and pipework. I understand that these do become prone to 
sudden failure with age and can detach with some force and be lost. For this reason, this 
type of design is generally not a feature of modern boilers. 
I can see from Amtrusts service records that it serviced the boiler around two months before 
the leak occurred and recommended that it be upgraded. Around a month later the boiler 
required repair, which perhaps indicates parts were coming towards the end of their 
serviceable life. 
Amtrust says the leak occurred from the expansion hose connecting to the boilers pump, 
which is under pressure and without the clip the hose would have detached immediately, not 
weeks later. I think it is unlikely that the clip was left off after the earlier repair as the problem 
would have occurred straightaway and on the balance of probability, I dont think Amtrust 
has made an error.
I can see how stressful the whole situation was for Mrs H and her family, but I cant say that 
Amtrust was responsible for the problem. It did attend within the timeframe set out in the 
policy. And I think the offer to waive two months premiums as a gesture of goodwill and the 
apology for the initial failure to book an appointment was reasonable, so I wont be asking it 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman