DRN-1904954
The complaint
Mr R complains about a withheld payment in his banking account with Revolut Ltd.
What happened
On 25 January 2020 Mr R received a payment of £67,680.00 into his Revolut account. This 
payment was held by Revolut for a due diligence check, as it says it needed to check the 
source of the funds. Revolut says it contacted Mr R on 27 and 29 January 2020 to ask for 
more information regarding the funds, but it says it got no response. 
Mr R says he then contacted Revolut on 31 January and 10 February but only managed to 
speak to an automated chat facility. 
On 11 February Mr R contacted Revolut and was directed to the compliance team. 
Revolut have said that someone from their compliance department then attempted to contact 
Mr R on 14,15, 20, 21 and 22 February via their online chat facility  but didnt get the 
response it needed to release the funds. 
Mr R remained unhappy that his payment was being withheld and said that he had lost out 
financially because of it, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator found 
Revolut hadnt had its opportunity to investigate the complaint, so this was sent back and in 
turn Revoluts investigation was completed and a final response letter (FRL) issued. Revolut 
didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it had a regulatory requirement to check certain 
transactions and the source of where they came from  and Mr Rs credit he received was 
one of those. It went on to say that it tried to contact Mr R several times to gain information 
to release the payment but got no response. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She largely 
agreed with Revolut for much the same reasons. She said Revolut had an obligation to 
check certain payments received into customers accounts. She went on to say that Revolut 
had tried to make contact with Mr R, so she didnt find it had acted unfairly when it had held 
onto the payment. 
On 9 April 2020 Revolut contacted Mr R and told him it could send the funds back to the 
originating Bank on his request. Mr R said he thought the email may be fraudulent, so he 
didnt respond. On 1 May 2020 that request was passed on from our service to Revolut for 
the money to be returned. On 5 May 2020 Revolut processed the return of the payment. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account and Im satisfied that Revolut were 
able to review and block the incoming payment as they did. Mr R agreed to these terms at 
the time he opened the account. This is also consistent with what we see from other 
organisations across this industry. 
The difficulty with the payment that Mr R had received, was that it was for a significantly 
larger amount than some of his previous transfers - so it unsurprisingly triggered Revolut's 
compliance requirements. These checks are intended to ensure that the source of funds is 
verifiably identified and are a regulatory requirement that Revolut must comply with. So, 
having considered this check, Im satisfied it was in line with Revoluts terms and conditions 
and it didnt act unfairly when it decided to initiate the check. 
Having then looked at the process Revolut followed to contact Mr R, Im satisfied it done 
enough. Ill explain why. 
Revolut have supplied a copy of the correspondence sent to Mr R on 27 January 2020 
through its app, shortly after the payment was received. With Revolut being an app-based 
company, its most likely a large proportion, if not all of their communication will be done 
through its chat service. Its also mentioned in the terms and conditions of the account that 
Revolut will usually communicate with account holders through the app. So, Im satisfied 
Revolut first contacted Mr R in a reasonable amount of time and through an accessible 
means. 
Having looked at the request made by Revoluts compliance department on the 27 January 
2020, it asked Mr R for information about the source of the funds. I can see Mr R replied 
several times after that but didnt provide this information. I find it most likely that had Mr R 
responded to this request, the payment would have been released shortly after it was made.
I understand the third-party bank that sent the payment had been made aware of the source 
of funds, but this information doesnt always get sent through with the payment. So, Im 
satisfied Revolut didnt have access to this information when it asked Mr R for it. 
Having seen Revoluts terms and conditions of the account, its clear that it wont pay for 
losses resulting in stopping payments in and out of the account when it needs to meet its 
legal and regulatory requirements. Although I havent found Revolut have made an error 
here, Mr R has signed up to these terms and conditions when he decided to open his 
account. 
Having considered all of the information supplied by both parties, Im satisfied Revolut 
havent done anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint, and I wont be asking it 
to compensate Mr R. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman