DRN-2490708
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about the customer service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
What happened
Mr L tried to complete a balance transfer between credit cards but didnt have his 16-digit 
Barclaycard number with him.
Mr L contacted Barclaycard to get this information and the call overall took 32 minutes but 
they were unable to provide him with the information he wanted. Mr L complained to 
Barclaycard as he felt he should have been told earlier in the call that they couldnt fulfil his 
request and the handler made a snide remark which he wanted compensation for.
Mr L received a call from Barclaycard who apologised for the long waiting times, explaining 
this was due to demand during the pandemic. They said they were unable to retrieve the 
initial phone call as they do not record all calls but confirmed that the agent followed the 
correct process by not giving out the 16-digit number. The agent added that they would be 
unable to compensate him for his time as he had chosen to ring them on the freephone 
number.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service as he felt Barclaycard didnt resolve his complaint 
and wanted compensation. Barclaycard did not register this as a complaint and dealt with it 
as a concern, so early consent was agreed for us to investigate this.
One of our investigators didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. The investigator was unable to listen 
to the original call so couldnt say if a snide comment was made. The investigator didnt think 
that 32 minutes was excessive in the circumstances and said Barclaycard were right not to 
give the 16-digit number as this could compromise security.
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman as he felt the complaint wasnt looked at in whole and asked why Barclaycard 
werent able to retrieve his original call.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclaycard have been unable to retrieve the first phone call its difficult for me to know 
exactly what was said and how things were put during it. So theres no evidence the call 
handler made a snide remark to Mr L. Barclaycard are under no obligation to record all the 
calls they make and receive, but it would be helpful if I could have listened to this here. 
I asked Barclaycard why the call wasnt recorded and they told me they had searched both 
Barclays and Barclaycard systems, as Barclays staff were helping out with calls. They said 
that the call might not have been recorded, or there may have had been system problems in 
recording the call. Barclaycard also said they had recently installed a new system for agents 
to take calls at home which is constantly being updated, due to the installation being brought 
forward during the pandemic. So, Im satisfied the original call isnt available for me to listen 
to - although this doesnt mean that Barclaycard has acted wrongly here, where they werent 
obliged to record the call. 
But, in the absence of that recording, Ive thought about what Mr L said about the call. I know 
that he feels he was on hold for a long time and that the call took too long in general. Im 
satisfied that 32 minutes isnt an excessive time to be on the phone to a freephone 
telephone number, when the call was made during the pandemic. I say this as Barclaycard 
said there were increased call volumes during this period. To help reduce call times they 
brought staff in from other areas of the business, but this means that calls may have taken 
longer than usual, as the call did here. This may be a reason why Mr L says they should 
have told him earlier in the call he couldnt get the information he wanted over the phone as 
the original call handler may not have been knowledgeable of Barclaycard processes.
The agent who spoke to Mr L regarding his concerns had told him that instead of the call 
being routed through to the contact centre in India, the calls were being handled in the UK. 
He said these agents wont necessarily have the training and expertise as they should have. 
While theres no suggestion that this had an impact on Mr L here, I think this was an honest 
answer from the agent, who was trying to be transparent. I note that the agent also 
apologised to Mr L for the time he spent on the phone which I think is fair.
So I think Barclaycard have acted fairly in response to Mr Ls request for his Barclaycard 
number. I know Mr L will be disappointed, but it follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to 
do any more.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman