DRN-3884083
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with how Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) handled her 
claim for a damaged sofa.
What happened
Mrs H purchased a new sofa in October 2020. At the time of purchase, she also took out a 
five-year insurance policy to cover the sofa for accidental staining and accidental damage.
Around nine months after delivery Mrs H reported damage to her three-seater, a small hole 
on the right-hand facing arm. Fortegra arranged for a technician to inspect it. The technician 
reported that the damage was accidental damage and carried out a repair to fix the issue.
In May 2022 Mrs H reported that the same hole had re-appeared. The same technician 
inspected the sofa. Fortegras claim notes detail the technician felt the damage was due to 
general use over time however, Mrs H says the technician offered to repair the damage 
again. But as a repair hadnt resolved the issue last time, she wanted to know what her other 
options were.
Fortegra accepted the claim and contacted Mrs H following the technicians visit and offered 
her a replacement part or £160 as a cash settlement. Mrs H wanted her sofa repaired so 
opted for a replacement part. Fortegra ordered the new part in June 2022 but in July 2022 
the manufacturer advised them the part was discontinued. Following this, Fortegra noted the 
technicians second inspection had said the cause was general wear so they informed Mrs H 
the claim wasnt covered.
Mrs H made a complaint, but Fortegra maintained that the technician had found it was 
damage caused over time and even though they had previously repaired the sofa, they didnt 
feel it was consistent with a failed repair and the damage wasnt consistent with accidental 
damage. They acknowledged the level of service provided wasnt what it should have been 
and offered £50 compensation.
Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. As the complaint wasnt resolved it was passed 
to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 which said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fortegra have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt decline 
a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions set out the agreement between Mrs H and Fortegra and 
details what is and isnt covered. Its clear the policy covers Mrs H for accidental damage, 
which it defines as:
sudden, unforeseen and unintentional damage resulting in rips, punctures, scuffs, burns, 
chips or scratches which have penetrated into the surface finish by over 1.5mm to the 
external surface of them.
When the technician first inspected the sofa in August 2021 his report detailed his opinion of 
the cause to be accidental damage. It also said:
There was a small hole on the 3STR RHF arm pad from an unknown cause. Ive 
repaired, recoloured and resealed the tear. If this fails one 3STR full fitted RHF arm 
would be needed from the manu
Its clear that at that time he had considered the hole to be in relation to accidental damage 
and that it was possible the repair wouldnt hold. 
I have requested the technicians report from the second visit, after the hole re-appeared, but 
this hasnt been provided. So I only have the notes on the claim history of the technicians 
comments. I note it is dated 01 June 2022 which appears to be before the technician carried 
out his second inspection. It says:
Tech Report  Small hole on the inside of the RHF arm pad on the seam. I believe this 
has been caused b general use eventually the stress put on this small area from resting 
on the arm pad has caused the hole. I advised the consumer I could repair this now but 
the consumer said this happened before and believes it will again. I tried my best to talk 
the customer into the repair but he wanted it to be reporting on so he could access his 
options
It also detailed next actions as POO OFFER, 3 seater 1 x right hand facing arm detailing the 
costs for the part and the labour and the total cost of £160. It also said:
Called consumer to offer poo  spoke to husband got permission from PH wants parts
So if at this point the technician felt this was caused by general wear over time, its not clear 
why Fortegra didnt decline the claim. Instead, another repair was offered, replacement part, 
or cash for the part.
Fortegra has said this was an error on their part and that the claim shouldnt have been 
accepted given the technicians comments on his second report. Theyve also said the 
original claim probably shouldve been declined in the first instance. However, Im aware the 
same technician inspected the sofa on both occasions, and in the first report noted the 
cause to be accidental damage of an unknown cause, so it is surprising his opinion differs on 
the underlying cause following the second inspection.
I appreciate it is possible the technician felt the hole was likely in relation to accidental 
damage of an unknown cause on the first inspection. And that when the hole re-appeared he 
didnt feel this was in relation to a failed repair, but new damage related to wear over time. 
But his second report reads like a fresh inspection, I cant see he has considered the 
previous report/repair before reaching his opinion. Given that the hole looks exactly the 
same and in the same location Id have expected some notes from the technician to show 
this had been fully considered to be sure this wasnt a failed repair. Especially since the first 
report indicates its possible the repair wouldnt resolve the issue long-term.
Mrs Hs sofa wasnt even a year old when the hole first appeared. Having viewed the 
photographs and the technicians report following his inspection/repair Im satisfied it is fair to 
be considered as accidental damage as there isnt any evidence to suggest otherwise.
I dont have a full second technicians report to review so it isnt clear what he considered at 
the time. Based on the evidence available, I find it likely he hasnt considered the original report/ repair, as explained, if he had Id have expected some comments in relation to it and 
why he didnt feel the hole re-appearing was as a result of a failed repair.
And based on the limited comments added to the claims history rather than a full inspection 
report, Im not persuaded Mrs H has been treated fairly as I cant see a thorough review of 
the incidences has been considered for it to be clear it isnt a failed repair. Especially given 
the technicians comments in the initial report in relation to the possibility of the repair failing.
I understand Fortegra feel that the length of time that passed between the repair and the 
hole re-appearing means it isnt a failed repair, but I dont think thats enough to evidence it. 
From the evidence available, the hole looks exactly the same as it did when initially reported. 
If it was wear over time Id have expected there to be evidence of further wear on the arm 
and with the hole itself.
Given the technicians observations/ comments when he first inspected the sofa and the fact 
the photographs Mrs H submitted when reporting the second claim look to be the same as 
the hole originally reported. I think its more likely than not that the hole re-appearing is in 
relation to original damage claimed for and the repair not holding. Based on this, Fortegra 
should cover the claim.
Under what is covered, the policy says:
if a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. If this is not 
possible, G may provide a replacement product(s), or settle the claim by a cash payment 
at G and your Insurers discretion instead of a repair or a replacement (up to the limit of 
cover). Any cash settlement will be limited to the equivalent cost of repair or replacement 
by G
Based on what Ive seen and for the reasons explained, Im satisfied the claim should be met 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. So Fortegra should either repair, replace or cash 
settle the claim with due consideration to whats happened so far.
Mrs H has been put to some distress and inconvenience due to Fortegras handling of the 
claim. Fortegra have accepted this and offered £50 but taking account of the mixed 
messages Mrs H has received and the delay in settling the claim, I think £150 is a fairer 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons explained but subject to any further evidence I receive from Mrs H or 
Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd, my provisional decision is that Fortegra Europe 
Insurance Company Ltd should settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions. And 
pay Mrs H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs H didnt have any further comments or evidence for me to consider and Fortegra didnt 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is no further evidence or information for me to consider, I see no reason to deviate from my initial findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd should settle the claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And pay Mrs H £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman