DRN-4225201
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Argentis Financial Management Ltd, trading as Gallagher Wealth, 
didnt provide the full advice service for which he was paying annual fees, and that as a 
result of this, he missed out on investment opportunities for sums held in cash.
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
On 11 July 2018, Mr H signed an Engagement Document with Argentis Financial 
Management Limited (a firm which ceased to be regulated from 15 September 2021). 
Argentis agreed to carry out annual reviews of Mr Hs financial circumstances for a fee of 
£1,500 per annum plus VAT (£1,800 in total). 
An updated Engagement Document with Gallagher was signed by Mr H on 1 August 2019. 
This also established an agreement to carry out annual reviews for a fee of £1,500 per 
annum plus VAT. The adviser charge was to be deducted from existing investment products.
The annual review meeting notes from 2018 and 2019 recorded that Mr H was looking to sell
his residential property to move closer to family. Mr H intended to downsize and release
equity. In 2019, review meeting notes recorded that Mr H intended to use the cash in his 
SIPP as income and to access up to £20,000 tax free cash immediately.
On 16 December 2020, Gallagher sold its wealth business (Argentis Financial Management
Ltd) to Harwood Wealth Management Group, and that business traded under the name
Argentis Financial Planning Limited.
On 21 September 2021, Argentis was removed as the servicing agent on Mr Hs pension. In 
May 2022, Mr H complained to Gallagher as hed been paying the adviser fee, but he hadnt 
been receiving the service or ongoing advice. Mr H requested a refund of £1,800 for 2018, 
2019 and 2020, along with simple interest of 8% on each of the payments. 
Mr H had calculated the compensation to be £6,696 at the time. Mr H also said that hed 
retained a large cash sum in his pension and questioned whether this was appropriate as 
hed missed out on investment opportunity on that sum. Mr H asked Gallagher whether it felt 
this warranted compensation.
Gallagher replied on 28 June 2022 with its final response letter, partially upholding Mr Hs
complaint. Regarding the fees, Gallagher offered Mr H £3,247.83 to settle his complaint.
Mr H initially disputed this amount, but after Gallagher explained it had provided a partial
service in 2018 and 2020 and a full service in 2019, Mr H agreed to accept this.
After further correspondence, Gallagher agreed to compensate Mr H for the missed
investment opportunity on the basis that, had he received an annual review in 2020, he 
could have potentially invested the large cash amount he had in his SIPP. Gallagher said it 
was unclear as to how Mr H would have invested as the pension only held cash and a
commercial property. 
It therefore offered to pay interest on the cash fund value of £117,752 at a rate of 1.75% for 
the duration of 2020. This amounted to £2,060.67, bringing the revised offer to £5,712.05 in 
total.
On 7 October 2022, Mr H emailed Gallagher saying that he disagreed with its use of the
interest rate of 1.75% on the balance of £117,752.31. Mr H said that he expected 
compensation at simple interest of 8%, which he calculated to be £9,420.18, plus the fee 
refund offered of £3,247.83. Mr H said that hed accept a total of £12,668.01 to conclude the 
matter.
Gallagher declined to pay Mr H £12,668.01 and said it felt its offer of £5,712.05 was fair.
Dissatisfied with the offer, Mr H referred the matter to this service through his 
representative/adviser.
The representative confirmed on 12 May 2023 that Mr Hs complaint regarding the fee 
element was resolved as Mr H had indicated he would accept the £3,247.83 offered by
Gallagher. Mr Hs representative also confirmed that his SIPP cash funds were
subsequently invested on the 21 December 2022.
The investigator said that, in his view, the outstanding issue was the rate of interest to be 
applied to Mr Hs cash balance of £117,752.31. Gallagher had offered to apply the interest 
rate of 1.75%, but Mr H sought 8% simple pa.
The investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld, saying the following in 
summary:
This service would only usually apply 8% simple interest in situations where a 
consumer had been deprived of the use of money, rather than a lack of investment 
opportunity.
Instead, we would look at how the consumer would more likely than not have 
invested the funds, and if this couldnt be determined exactly, then we would use one 
of our benchmarks as a proxy for the missed investment return. 
The annual review meeting notes indicated that the intention was to maintain Mr Hs 
cash in the SIPP as he required liquidity. He needed access to the cash to bolster his 
income in a period of uncertainty until he sold his property and downsized, thereby 
releasing capital.
The investigator therefore said that it would have been prudent to not put the capital 
at risk. He also noted that the property had been sold in February 2021. And so, had 
Gallagher undertaken its review meeting in 2020, at that point Mr Hs property was 
still unsold. Gallagher would therefore have likely advised Mr H to retain the cash 
element in liquid form until Mr Hs circumstances changed.
The use of the no risk benchmark, which relied upon he average return from one 
year fixed rate bonds, was therefore appropriate in the circumstances. But as the Bank of England base rate at the time was 0.1%, the investigator considered 
Gallaghers offer of interest of 1.75% pa to be generous.
He also considered the offer to apply the interest for one year was fair. Gallagher 
sold the Argentis business in December 2020 and Argentis was removed as the 
servicing agent in September 2021. Gallaghers liability shouldnt therefore extend 
beyond that date.
The investigator also noted that Mr H didnt invest the cash until December 2022 
under the advice of his representative. This service took the view that consumers 
should seek to mitigate any losses, and Mr H could have appointed a new financial 
adviser in 2021 in order to review his situation.
Mr Hs representative disagreed, however, saying that Mr H would like the matter referred to 
an ombudsman for review. It added that Mr H didnt feel that either the option of a no risk or 
risk option other than cash had ever been provided.
It said that Mr H maintained that 8% simple pa was a fair resolution and, in terms of using 
one of our benchmarks as a risk solution, this would have equated to a 3.6% to 3.8% with 
the appropriate risk over a three to five year period as shown in the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index.
The representative therefore requested that Gallaghers final offer be reconsidered and 
uplifted to compensation of around £8,500.
There was then a telephone call between the investigator and Mr Hs representative, in 
which the former reiterated his view that the no risk comparator seemed the fair benchmark 
to use as Mr H was keen to retain liquid funds from which to draw income as he was going 
through a period of uncertainty relating to his property sale. 
Although he noted the request to use a higher risk benchmark, the available evidence didnt 
support the position that this is what would have been recommended had a review taken 
place, given Mr Hs situation at the time. 
But as agreement couldnt be reached, the investigator confirmed that the case would be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons.
I acknowledge what Mr Hs representative has said about no option other than cash having 
been presented to him, but I think this rather misses the point of what the investigator has 
tried to achieve here. On the basis that a review should and would have happened in 2020, 
hes concluded that such a review would have determined that, given Mr Hs situation at the 
time (with uncertainty prevailing due to the property not yet having been sold), the best 
course of action would have been to remain in a no risk environment.
And I agree with the investigator that, although the representative has suggested that a 
higher risk benchmark should be used, the available evidence doesnt support the position 
that this would more likely than not have been the recommendation at the time  given Mr Hs situation.
So I think it follows that, to put Mr H as closely as possible in the position he would more 
likely than not have been in, had the review occurred when it should, the no risk benchmark 
would be the appropriate comparator. And as with the investigator, I think Gallaghers offer 
to apply 1.75% interest, for the entirety of 2020, at a time when the base rate was (for nine 
months of that year) 0.1%, seems quite generous.
Overall, therefore, on the basis that Gallagher remains prepared to pay the offered amount, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint and apply a higher rate of 
interest than that already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman