DRN-2247135
The complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his claim under his travel insurance 
policy. Reference to Aviva includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr K had travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. In 2015, whilst on a trip to the 
USA, he suffered a heart attack. Aviva dealt with a claim by Mr K in relation to his 
emergency medical and associated expenses and repatriation costs. 
In 2020, Mr K contacted Aviva in relation to another claim against the policy, this time under 
the personal accident section. He said that, as he was still suffering health issues following 
his heart attack, he was entitled to payment under the policy.       
Aviva declined Mr Ks claim. It said that Mr Ks claim doesnt fall within the terms of the 
policy. Aviva said that Mr K didnt suffer from an illness as a result of an accidental injury, so 
the policy doesnt cover what happened here. 
Mr K says that the damage to his heart is irreparable and hes still taking medication, so hes 
entitled to claim for permanent disability under the personal accident section of the policy. 
He wants Aviva to deal with his claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think Aviva acted unfairly 
in declining the claim. The investigator said that Mr Ks heart attack wasnt an accidental 
injury: it was an unexpected illness and that isnt covered under the personal accident 
section of the policy. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the heart attack left long-term damage  
a small rupture and ongoing arrythmia. Mr K believes this constitutes permanent 
disablement. He said that hes happy to share his medical notes. 
Mr K asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman to decide, so it was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:  
Section D  Personal Accident
We will cover you if you suffer an accidental injury during your trip that leads solely, directly 
and independently of any other cause to your:
[]
3. permanent total disablement after 104 weeks from the date you incurred the injury []
Special conditions
1. The [] disability must happen within one year of the accident.
[]
The most we will pay
[]
1.What is not covered Any claim for sickness, disease, nervous shock or naturally 
occurring condition or degenerative process.
[]
Permanent Total Disablement
A permanent and total disability that means you cannot do any kind of job.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated him unfairly. I say 
that because:
Based on what Ive seen, Mr K didnt suffer an accidental injury whilst he was on the 
trip in 2015: he suffered a heart attack. The policy doesnt define accidental injury 
but the ordinary, natural meaning of that phrase doesnt include a heart attack. So, 
Mr K doesnt have a valid claim against the policy. 
In any event, Ive seen nothing to show that Mr K suffered permanent total 
disablement, which is defined in the policy as not being able to do any kind of job. 
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, it seems to me that Mr Ks 
condition comes within one of more of the categories that the policy specifically 
excludes. I think that Mr Ks heart attack was a disease, naturally occurring condition 
or degenerative process. 
Im sorry that Mr K continues to suffer ill-health, but for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think that Aviva acted unfairly when it declined  his claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman