DRN-1936998
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
the Melton Mowbray Building Society (MMBS).
What happened
In January 2008 Mr and Mrs W took out a new mortgage with a third party. Prior to this 
Mrs W, on her own, had had a mortgage and PPI policy with MMBS. When taking out their 
new joint mortgage Mr and Mrs W wanted a PPI policy to cover them both and took a policy 
out through MMBS. The policy was active from the same time as the new mortgage in 
January 2008.  
Mr and Mrs W complained to MMBS that the PPI was mis-sold but MMBS didnt uphold their 
complaint. MMBS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been 
charged in the premiums but said there was nothing that needed to be repaid.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with what MMBS said so brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the policy had been mis-sold as Mr and Mrs W both 
had pre-existing medical conditions when the policy was taken out, so would have been 
affected by restrictions on the policy. 
MMBS didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Mr and Mrs W have complained that the policy they took out in January 2008 with MMBS 
was mis-sold. They say they wanted PPI cover to ensure the mortgage would be paid in the 
event of a loss of earnings. But they were unhappy that the cost of the policy kept 
increasing. Also that they later realised the PPI only covered a proportion of the mortgage 
payment for each of them and that it may not pay out if a claim was made relating to either of 
them being off work for a pre-existing medical condition.  
Mr and Mrs W both had existing medical conditions at the time the PPI was sold to them. 
Both were taking regular medication and had regular checks made by their doctor and 
consultants relating to their conditions. 
It is agreed by both parties that this PPI policy was taken out with a separate business to the 
joint mortgage and the PPI was taken out through MMBS. MMBS say in early January 2008 
the PPI was discussed on the telephone with Mr and Mrs W. Based on that telephone 
discussion a quotation and the application form for the PPI was sent out to Mr and Mrs W to 
be signed and returned. MMBS has told us it provided the quotation based on the 
information given during the phone call. It follows the application form was also completed 
on the basis of the phone call discussion.
There is no recording of that phone call so I cannot be certain what was said. MMBS say full 
terms and conditions were sent to Mr and Mrs W when they took out the policy. But I havent 
seen anything to indicate what was said to Mr and Mrs W during the phone call about the 
terms and conditions, when the suitability of the PPI was being assessed. It is unclear that 
information about the restrictions in the policy relating to medical conditions was indicated, 
so Mr and Mrs W could take this into account when considering the suitability of the policy 
being quoted for.  
Looking at the policy terms and conditions, I think Mr and Mrs W would both have been 
restricted on some claims on the policy due to the medical conditions they both had at the 
time they took out the policy, and these were ongoing conditions.
The policy terms indicate that the policy will not pay for a disability due to a pre-existing 
condition unless the consumer has received no treatment or consulted a doctor or consultant 
for at least 24 months. As Mr and Mrs W both had at least annual checks with the medical 
profession for their conditions, if they had been ill and off work as a result of their conditions 
it is most likely they would have been unable to claim on the policy.
Mr and Mrs W may well have thought their conditions would have been quite likely to have 
been the main reason they may have needed to make a claim if off sick from work for a 
longer period. So I dont think they would have considered the policy would have provided 
the cover and benefits they wanted, if they had been aware the restrictions of the policy 
would be unlikely to pay such a claim.
I have noted MMBSs arguments that the policy didnt cover claims for accident and 
sickness, but the cover was for disability. The definition of disability in the policy is that 
disability means you are disabled and you are under the care and attendance of a doctor 
or consultant. And disabled is defined as you have a medical condition that stops you 
doing your normal work. This must be confirmed by a doctor.
I cannot see there is any difference between accident and sickness and disability in the 
terms of this policy. Being disabled for the purposes of this policy is defined as being under 
the care of a doctor because of a medical condition, which is exactly what would happen if 
someone had an accident or was sick and obtained a note of being unfit for work from a 
doctor. So disability and accident and sickness are interchangeable terms in this context. 
I also note that in the renewal notice sent to Mr and Mrs W in 2013, the section headed 
Type of Cover refers to the cover being for Accident, Sickness and Unemployment. So I 
do not agree that the cover was for disability which did not cover being off work for sickness 
connected with the conditions Mr and Mrs W had, which is suggested by MMBS. 
Mr and Mrs W had anticipated they would be covered for all long-term sickness or other 
medical reason for which they may have been off work.
So in summary I think the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs W, as at the point of sale the 
restrictions relating to pre-existing medical conditions that could have affected their claims 
and benefits under the policy were not made totally clear. And I think if these restrictions had 
been made clear Mr and Mrs W would not have taken out this particular PPI policy as they 
wouldnt have thought it provided good value in their particular circumstances for the cost.Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So 
MMBS needs to put Mr and Mrs W, as far as possible, in the position they would be in if they 
had not been sold this PPI policy.
This means MMBS needs to calculate the total cost of the monthly premiums Mr and Mrs W 
paid. I note from the information provided that the first three months of the policy appeared 
to be free and the first premium of £28.03 was paid on 7 April 2008. The premium amounts 
increased over the years until the policy was cancelled in 2013 when the renewal notice 
indicates the premium was £40.25, which it had been since the 2010 renewal notice. All the 
increases in premiums need to be taken into account in the calculation.
MMBS must repay all the monthly premiums paid and also calculate compensatory interest 
at the rate of 8% simple for every year, on each premium, from the date when the premium 
was paid until the date the final compensation payment is paid to Mr and Mrs W.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MMBS to take off tax from the 8% compensatory interest 
and MMBS must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they 
ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-
sold to Mr and Mrs W by Melton Mowbray Building Society. Compensation should be 
calculated and paid to Mr and Mrs W, as I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman