DRN-2913773
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with Cabot Credit Management Group Limited for the way it has handled 
an outstanding credit card debt. The credit card was taken out with Company M. 
In particular, Ms S has said she did not recall the debt, and confirmation of her owing the 
debt was not provided when she asked for it. Ms S is also unhappy that not enough attempts 
were made to approach her before a County Court Judgement (CCJ) was registered against 
her.
 
Ms S is represented in this complaint by Mr B. 
What happened
A copy of a credit agreement showed Ms S had taken out a credit card in her maiden name 
in October 2003 when she lived at Address A. Cabot has confirmed the account was 
terminated in December 2004 due to non-payment, and after the debt was defaulted it was 
legally assigned to Cabot in February 2005. 
Cabot traced Ms S to Address B under a new surname, but received no reply from Ms S 
when they tried to contact her. They then traced her to Address C and found a telephone 
number on which they were able to speak with Ms S. In October 2009 Ms S spoke with 
Cabot and agreed to pay £10 a month towards the debt  however, only two payments were 
made. Cabot spoke with Ms S again in January 2010 and Ms S confirmed a new surname 
and promised a further payment of £20. However, no further payments were made towards 
the debt. 
Cabot employed various agents to obtain further payment from Ms S without success. And in 
May 2015 direct management of the debt returned to Cabot. During July and September 
2015 Cabot wrote to Ms S at Address C and as there was no reply, they instructed MC 
Solicitors to begin court proceedings. 
MC Solicitors wrote to Ms S at Address C on 15 September 2015 explaining they would 
begin court proceedings if they did not hear from Ms S. And after no reply was received from 
Ms S, MC Solicitors proceeded with court action and a CCJ was granted on 29 October 
2015, for £2,444.12 plus legal costs. 
Communications between MC Solicitors and Ms Ss representative followed in 2016. 
Our investigator explained our service had no authority to look at any part of the complaint 
relating to the CCJ itself or anything that had happened in association with the CCJ from the 
date it was issued. The investigator was able to consider only what had happened prior to 
the CCJ and, having done this, they felt Cabot had made reasonable attempts to try and 
contact Ms S about the debt and let her know about the intended court action. The 
investigator also noted that it seemed Ms S had some awareness of the debt and so it 
wouldve been reasonable for her to let Cabot know about any further changes to her contact 
details. 
While accepting that large parts of the complaint werent able to be considered by this 
service, Mr B said Ms S was still unhappy with the outcome as she didnt feel enough had 
been done to contact her before court action was started. Mr B also said Cabot and MC 
Solicitors hadnt properly considered Ms Ss health in these circumstances. 
The investigator provided a copy of the credit agreement for Ms S and reminded her and Mr 
B that anything which happened after the CCJ was issued was not something our service 
could look into  including the communications Mr B was referring to. As a resolution wasnt 
reached, the case was passed to me to decide and I issued my provisional findings to both 
parties, which I have summarised below.
 
Summary of provisional findings 
After the CCJ was issued the debt was no longer owned under the original credit 
agreement and it became a court debt. This meant it wasnt possible for this service 
to look at the CCJ or what happened after the CCJ. So, the only issue which fell 
within the scope of this service was to broadly consider whether Cabot had made 
reasonable attempts to contact Ms S before the CCJ was issued. 
All the available evidence and arguments were considered to decide what was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Cabot made reasonable attempts to try and contact Ms S before litigation began. 
Cabot spent much time themselves, and through their agents, trying to find Ms S and 
they were successful in locating and contacting her for a brief time in late 2009 and 
early 2010.
It wasnt possible to ignore that Ms S also had some responsibility to continue 
engaging with Cabot after she was in contact with them and that given this 
awareness it wouldve been reasonable to expect Ms S to keep Cabot updated with 
any changes to her address and contact details. 
It was noted from Ms Ss submissions that she never had any intention to ignore a 
financial responsibility, but also it didnt appear Cabot had done anything wrong in 
the circumstances as they had made reasonable attempts to try and find Ms S and 
communicate with her about the debt. 
Our service couldnt consider MC Solicitors letters sent to Ms S in 2015 to start legal 
proceedings as MC Solicitors were acting in a legal capacity as solicitors, not as debt 
collectors. So these particular communications did not fall within the scope of this 
service. 
Responses to my provisional decision
 
Cabot replied to say they had nothing further to add. 
Mr B replied on Ms Ss behalf. While accepting there was nothing more they could add that 
would change the provisional conclusions, Mr B highlighted his and Ms Ss concern that 
neither Cabot or MC Solicitors were helpful to Ms S. Mr B said it seemed there was no 
regard for Ms Ss personal health and wellbeing and they felt sure there would be no 
apology from Cabot and MC Solicitors about the way theyd approached matters and 
affected Ms Ss health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reflected on Mr Bs comments and Im sorry to hear of Ms Ss ongoing health difficulties. 
However as the investigator explained, the communications Mr B is referring to relate to 
exchanges after the CCJ was issued, and so these are matters which fall outside the 
jurisdiction of this service. 
Having reviewed everything again, I see no reason to alter the conclusions reached in my 
provisional decision. That is, much of the complaint does not fall within the jurisdiction of this 
service. And for the part that can be considered by this service, overall its difficult for me to 
say that Cabot have done anything wrong as I think enough reasonable attempts were made 
over the years to locate Ms S and communicate with her about the debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman