DRN-2800357
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has settled his 
claim for a replacement iPad.
For ease, any reference to D&G also includes its agents.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr B contacted D&G as his iPad wasnt working correctly. The item was 
subsequently sent to a repair agent to be fixed.
Approximately two weeks later, Mr B called D&G to obtain an update on the repair of the 
item. He was informed that the item couldnt be repaired as some of the parts were no longer 
available and that he had been sent a voucher for the equivalent cost of a replacement via 
email.
Mr B said he hadnt received the emailed voucher and was also unhappy that he hadnt been 
informed that he would be receiving a voucher rather than a replacement. He made a 
complaint to D&G. It said that the policy terms and conditions state that he could be sent a 
voucher for him to purchase a replacement item if it cannot be repaired. D&G confirmed that 
the voucher had been sent to the correct email address that he had provided. And, after 
checking with the relevant provider, D&G said the voucher had in fact been redeemed and 
items purchased. As the voucher had been sent to the correct email address and the 
voucher had been redeemed, D&G didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought the complaint to our service. He said that if he 
had been told that he was going to be sent a voucher by email he would have provided a 
more secure address. An investigator looked into the matter but didnt think that D&G had to 
do anything more. Our investigator found that the policy purchased by Mr B does say that he 
could be sent vouchers rather than a replacement item. And as the email address was one 
that Mr B had previously provided to D&G, she didnt think it was unreasonable that it had 
used this to send the e-voucher. So, she didnt think it was fair to ask D&G to provide any 
further refund to Mr B. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he was told by D&G that it had not 
received the voucher and that it would provide a cash amount into his bank account. As no 
agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts for 
consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to Mr B. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my 
role in it.
It is important to point out that my role isnt to say whether or not I think the voucher has 
been stolen from Mr Bs email account. Instead, I need to decide whether it was fair for D&G 
to replace Mr Bs item by way of a voucher and if they acted reasonably by sending this to 
Mr Bs email account.
The policy Mr B took out with D&G states the following;
Replacements
1. In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair your 
product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same 
or similar make and technical specification.
2. If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement, we will give you vouchers instead. The 
vouchers will be for the full retail price (from a retailer chosen by us) of a replacement 
product of the same or similar make and technical specification. The vouchers will also pay 
for the delivery.
D&G have told us that, although Mr Bs iPad was initially sent off for repair, the item couldnt 
be fixed due to the necessary parts no longer being available. It said it therefore looked to 
replace the item and provided Mr B with the e-voucher to cover the replacement cost. On 
this basis, Im satisfied that D&G has acted within the terms and conditions of the policy 
when deciding to replace the item by way of a voucher to Mr B.
Mr B has said that he should have been told in advance that D&G was going to settle his 
claim by providing him with a voucher. He says he would have provided it with a more 
secure address if it had done so - to avoid the voucher from being stolen. It doesnt appear 
D&G did give Mr B any prior notice that he was going to be sent the e-voucher - Mr B was 
only told about this when he called to check on the progress of the repair. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter. I 
accept it would have been helpful for him to have received advance notice of the settlement 
method, especially as Mr B has commented about the security of this email address  which 
led him to believe the voucher has been stolen. However, Im not persuaded that this means 
D&G is at fault. Mr B provided this email address to D&G, so he was therefore happy for this 
to be used for correspondence regarding his claim. And if Mr B had any prior suspicions that 
his email account might not be secure, I think he would have avoided using it. Taking all of 
this into account, I think it was reasonable for D&G to send the voucher to the email account 
Mr B had provided and was using for his claim. As D&G has provided the voucher and this 
has been utilised, D&G have effectively paid the claim and Im not of the opinion that it has 
to make any further payment to Mr B.
Im aware that Mr B has recently commented that he was told by D&G it would make the 
payment into his bank account. But from the information Ive been given, this was prior to it 
knowing that the voucher had been redeemed. So, I dont think D&G did anything wrong by 
informing Mr B it would no longer be providing this cash alternative.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman