DRN-3305851
The complaint
Ms K complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd (Aviva) didnt give her clear enough 
information about switching her personal pension, causing her to lose out.  
What happened
Ms K had a personal pension with Aviva and in mid-March 2020 she spoke with it to discuss 
accessing her benefits via flexi-access drawdown. She was told she didnt have this option 
with her current plan, but she could switch to one with it that did. The transfer request was 
created on 20 March 2020, Ms Ks funds were sold and £28,116.65 was received into her 
new self-invested personal pension (SIPP) on 31 March 2020 and held in cash.
In June 2020, Ms K complained to Aviva that, in summary, the transfer value achieved was 
just under £8,000 less than in the options pack she received dated 21 February 2020. She 
said Aviva didnt tell her the current value or the impact the market could have on this when 
she spoke with it in March 2020. She also said it didnt make the transfer in good time, she 
wasnt told she could transfer in species and shes unhappy her funds havent experienced 
market growth as theyve been sat in cash since.  
In response, Aviva said it didnt give Ms K advice and she wasnt given a valuation as she 
didnt ask for one. It said values arent guaranteed and funds are subject to market volatility. 
Unhappy with this, Ms K brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
initially said Ms K would have placed more emphasis on what she was told on the phone. 
And that had Aviva clearly said she needed to invest the funds herself its unlikely shed 
have left these in cash. He also said Aviva should pay Ms K £250 compensation. 
Aviva didnt agree. It said it follows a structure in calls like Ms Ks about switching a plan. 
And that it sent her a letter before she decided to switch to ensure she understood what was 
required and to give her the chance to seek advice or contact it with queries. It also said it 
would have expected Ms K to read the SIPP particulars. And that shes left her pension in 
cash since, despite knowing shed need to invest it herself. 
Our investigator said they werent asking Aviva to do anything on reflection, as Ms K was 
told the value wasnt guaranteed and she didnt ask for an up to date valuation. He also said     
Ms K was told in writing that her funds were transferred and held in cash, which its 
reasonable to expect her to have read. And, in any case, its unlikely she would have moved 
her funds into anything else. 
Ms K didnt agree. She said Aviva should have established she was vulnerable due to her 
low level of knowledge. She said it didnt gauge her knowledge or understanding or tell her 
to seek advice. And that it should have told her the transfer would involve selling her funds, 
that the market could move against her and that shed need to reinvest this. She also said 
she took no action to reinvest the cash within her SIPP due to fear and lack of knowledge. 
Our investigators view remained unchanged. He also explained he hadnt seen anything to 
suggest Aviva was made aware of any vulnerability requiring it to treat Ms K in a different 
way to any other retail client. And he noted that Aviva recommended she seek advice. 
As the parties couldnt agree, the complaints been passed to me for a decision. Ms K added 
that as a SIPP is a sophisticated product Aviva should have ensured she understood what 
would happen, which wasnt made clear no matter the documentation it sent her. Ms K also 
referred to a previous decision to show Aviva ought to have made it clear shed need to 
manage the investments in her SIPP and that its unlikely shed have left it in cash. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has made a number of points and while Ive considered them all, Ive only commented 
on what I think is key to reaching my decision. And, having done so, Im not asking Aviva to 
do anything for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why.
While Ms K no longer seems to be complaining about the time Aviva took to make the 
switch, I think it did this in a reasonable amount of time. This is because Ms K was told 
during her first call with it on 10 March 2020 that this could take three to six weeks and I can 
see the switch was completed within three weeks of her first speaking to Aviva. 
As Aviva wasnt providing Ms K with advice it couldnt tell her what actions to take. And I 
wouldnt have expected it to establish her level of knowledge and understanding. Nor do 
I think that it should have assumed Ms K was vulnerable and treated her as such when it 
had no indication of this. That being said, as a regulated business Aviva had a responsibility 
to follow the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business, which Ive had 
regard to when reaching my decision. Principle 7 says a firm must pay due regard to the 
information needs of its clients, and communicate with them in a way thats clear, fair and 
not misleading.
Looking at the transfer value, Aviva gave Ms K a value in its options pack dated 
21 February 2020, which I think she received given shes referred to it in her complaint 
correspondence. Ms K was responsible for asking Aviva for an up to date valuation if she 
wanted one, but she didnt ask for one during either call in March 2020. And I think Aviva 
gave Ms K clear information in the pack that this value could change, as it said in a few 
places that this wasnt guaranteed. It also said this will change, it could go up or down and 
she could get back less than she invests. Aviva also recommended that Ms K seek advice 
on what to do with her pension due to her approaching retirement date.
During Ms Ks call with Aviva on 10 March 2020 she did express uncertainty as to whether 
shed received this options pack containing the information she wanted on how to make the 
switch. So it offered to send her a new one to be received by 19 March 2020. While its 
unclear if Aviva did this, I think Ms K choose to go ahead anyway rather than waiting for it or 
chasing it up as she realised shed already received the pack dated 21 February 2020 with 
this information in. And, for the reasons Ive given above, I think she did so with enough 
information to know the value in it wasnt guaranteed.  
Ive also considered whether I think Aviva did enough to make Ms K aware shed need to 
reinvest the funds herself once transferred, as I think this was key information given the   
self-invested nature of a SIPP and that shed previously been in a managed fund with it. Aviva hasnt been able to provide the part of the call Ms K had with it on 12 March 2020 from 
the point she was put through to its drawdown team to discuss transferring her plan. While 
its said this would have followed a structure, it doesnt seem to have given us the full 
document and the parts Ive seen dont refer to her needing to reinvest her fund. So, taking 
this along with Ms Ks testimony that she wasnt given this information, I think its unlikely 
she was told in this call that shed need to reinvest her funds after switching her pension.
But, having also considered what Ms K was told in writing, I can see the options pack she 
received shortly before contacting Aviva in March 2020 enclosed a brochure with information 
on income drawdown. This clearly says in the drawdown section that shed need to be more 
actively involved with her pension with this option; shed choose the funds to invest in; and if 
she doesnt want to do this, then drawdown (or therefore a SIPP) might not be the right 
option for her. 
While this section was on page 11 of the brochure, it only spanned two pages and the above 
information was in a summary at the top of it. And, given Ms K said in her call with Aviva on 
10 March 2020 that she wanted flexi-access drawdown, I think its reasonable to assume 
shed read this brochure and had an understanding of what this involved, particularly as Ive 
seen no evidence that she enquired about the mechanics of flexi-drawdown or sought 
advice. So I think that when Ms K was switching her pension she was doing so with the 
intention of going into drawdown, which she did within around four months. And that she had 
sufficient information about how this product worked and what would be required of her.
Ms K was also sent an illustration for her new pension on 12 March 2020, before the switch 
took place. The top of the letter says it contains important information to help Ms K decide 
whether this pension is right for her and that she should read it carefully. The first page is 
also clear that the illustration shows her investment selection for her pension. And, 
underneath the heading Where will your payments be invested? that was in bold on the 
second page, it said this would be in 100% cash with a small note directly below which said 
you can change these selections. On the third page under the heading Investment related 
charges it also said the charge depends upon the investment you choose and that based 
on her current choice of cash she wouldnt incur any such charges. So I think this was clear 
that her fund would be held in cash. 
Ms Ks SIPP terms and conditions were also clear that her pension would be transferred in 
cash and that shed need to decide where to invest this when it said You may transfer Your 
pension from a UK registered pension scheme, or another scheme agreed by the Scheme 
administrator to Us only in cashWhen you are transferring from an existing pension, well 
either allocate your funds as instructed or hold your money in the cash account until you 
decide where you want to invest. While I appreciate this was on page six, this was one of 
the first few pages containing substantive information about the SIPP. And I think its 
reasonable to expect Ms K to have read all that was provided, asked questions and sought 
advice if needed when making a decision about something as important as her pension. 
So, taking the written information together, I think Aviva did enough to make Ms K sufficiently 
aware her pension would be held in cash and that shed need to choose the investments. 
Even if I thought otherwise Id need to be satisfied Ms K would be in different position now if 
she had been given clear information. But, on balance, I think its likely Ms K would still have 
switched given she wanted flexi-access to her pension and this wasnt available under her 
plan. And Im not persuaded Ms K would have acted differently if Aviva had said her funds 
would be held in cash and that shed have to choose her investments. 
I say this because Ms K hasnt chosen to make any changes to where her fund is invested 
since, even though shes known it was in cash from at least June 2020 when she made her complaint. This is despite being sent a letter dated 2 August 2020 about her requesting 
drawdown, which strongly recommended she seek advice and enclosed a short leaflet that 
again clearly says shell need to choose which funds to invest in. While Ive taken into 
account Ms Ks reasons for this, she knew she could seek advice on how to invest if she 
wasnt happy her fund was held in cash, but she chose not to until more recently. So I cant 
safely say she would have chosen to invest differently following the switch. I also note that 
the adviser shes recently instructed has said her pension is fine being left in cash for now. 
I appreciate Ms Ks referred to a previous decision given by our Service. But every complaint 
is considered on its own merits based on its individual circumstances. And in this particular 
complaint, based on everything Ive been provided, I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for 
any loss Ms K may have suffered when she switched her pension arrangement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is Im not asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd 
to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman