DRN-3851628
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly recalled a 
Bounce Back Loan and closed its bank account.
Ls director, Mr A, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
L opened a bank account with Metro in November 2020. It applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan of £50,000 the following month, which Metro initially approved and the funds 
were drawn down on 11 December 2020.
Metro subsequently reviewed Ls account and Bounce Back Loan application, restricting the 
companys access to the account while it did so. Following the review, Metro decided to 
withdraw the facilities. It wrote to L on 15 January 2021 to advise that it would be closing the 
companys account on 16 March. On the same day, it utilised the account balance  of 
around £25,000  to reduce the amount owing under the Bounce Back Loan agreement.
When Mr A queried the reasons for the banks actions, Metro said it had concluded that Ls 
Bounce Back Loan application hadnt been genuine. It said the turnover amount L had 
declared was false, meaning that the loan shouldnt have been provided in the first place 
 as businesses could only borrow up to 25% of their turnover, and the bank had decided that 
L didnt have the requisite £200,000 to support its request. The matter was escalated by way 
of complaint, but Metro stood by its decisions and said it had acted in accordance with the 
applicable terms and conditions. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look into things. He didnt think Metros actions in 
blocking and closing Ls account or in terminating the Bounce Back Loan were fair. He said 
that the £300,000 turnover amount provided in Ls Bounce Back Loan application had been 
a projection, which was permitted under the Loan Scheme rules.
One of our investigators reviewed Ls complaint but didnt think Metro had done anything in 
wrong in recalling the loan in the manner it had. Although he wasnt persuaded that the 
application wasnt genuine, Metro had also provided information that showed the loan 
shouldnt have been granted as the application had failed its fraud, anti-money laundering 
and Know Your Customer checks. So on that basis, he thought it had been fair for the bank 
to withdraw the loan.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. In short, he said that if it was accepted that Ls 
application was genuine then Metro had no grounds to terminate the loan agreement  
especially given that Metro had confirmed separately that it held no adverse data about the 
company. That in turn also called into question the banks decision to close its account.
My provisional decision
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to review. And while my initial view of 
Ls complaint was the same as that reached by our investigator  in that I didnt think it 
should be upheld  my reasons were slightly different. So I sent both parties a provisional 
decision, giving them the chance to consider what Id said and respond with any further 
information or evidence they wanted me to take into account when making a final decision. I 
said:
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a business 
could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular relevance here, 
these included that:
The applicant was engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the date 
of the application, was carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and had been 
adversely affected by coronavirus.
The loan amount could be no more than 25% of the applicants annual turnover, 
which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 calendar year. Businesses 
established after 1 January 2019  as L was  could use an estimate.
Metro approved Ls application on the strength of the companys self-declaration that it 
met these criteria. In keeping with the nature of the Loan Scheme, applicants self-
attested to eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in order to process applications and 
provide funds quickly. 
When Metro subsequently reviewed things  as it was entitled to, in line with its anti-
fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements  it concluded that L wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained 
and that it had grounds to terminate the agreement. Ive carefully considered the basis of 
the banks decision in light of all that Mr A has said and provided both to Metro and our 
service. Having done so, I think Metros decision was reasonable. I say this because:
There is very little evidence to show that L was carrying on business on 1 March 
2020. While the company was incorporated on 17 February 2020  and therefore 
existed at the requisite point in time  this doesnt, in and of itself, demonstrate 
that it was trading. The company hadnt generated any turnover by that date and 
so cant point to transactions running through its account, or other financial 
information, to confirm the position.
The same applies to its trading status at the time of its application in November 
2020. Despite having existed for eight months by this time, the company had still 
not generated any income  or at the very least hasnt evidenced that it had. 
Ls own website says that it was established in January 2021.
Weve asked L for evidence of its trading activity, but havent received anything 
other than its directors comments as to the activity it was undertaking at the time. 
This hasnt been substantiated by documentary evidence, which might 
reasonably include contracts for the work it was purportedly engaged in or  if I 
were to accept that such may have been in progress at the time of its application 
 evidence of remuneration subsequently received, given that we are some two 
years on from the work that was said to be in progress.
L says that a payment of £15,000 made using the Bounce Back Loan funds to a 
special purpose vehicle was connected to one of the cases it was engaged in 
prior to its Bounce Back Loan application. Im not wholly persuaded this activity 
amounts to trading  it seems more akin to an investment, and is often described as such by Ls directors who also notably mention that the beneficiary of this 
payment is not actually aware of [L] and there no existing contracts between [the 
beneficiary] and [L]. But even if I were to accept this constituted trading activity, I 
would expect L to be able to evidence its involvement prior to 1 March 2020  
through records of such investment or similar  but it hasnt done so. The 
companys published accounts also record only one investment, of £15,000, 
which I assume to be that made with the Bounce Back Loan funds.
While it was possible for applicants to use a projected turnover figure when 
submitting their application, given all Ive said above about the lack of 
demonstrable trading activity Im not persuaded that Ls estimate of £300,000 
was accurate or reasonable. 
Under the terms and conditions of Ls Bounce Back Loan agreement, Metro was entitled 
to terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. 
This included where any of the representations made by L to Metro became materially 
misleading or incorrect. Taking all of the above into account, I think it was reasonable for 
Metro to conclude that the representations L made within its application were misleading 
or inaccurate and, as a result, for it to terminate the agreement.
Under the terms and conditions of Ls account and the loan agreement, Metro also had 
the right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held by L in any 
other account with Metro towards the repayment of any amounts the company owed to 
the bank. So I dont think Metro did anything wrong in removing the funds from Ls 
account and applying these to reduce the amount it was owed under the Bounce Back 
Loan agreement. 
The actions Metro took when restricting and later closing Ls bank account were in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions and  given all Ive said about the validity of its 
concerns over Ls entitlement to the loan  were reasonable steps for the bank to take. 
So based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Metro did anything wrong in how it 
terminated and recalled the Bounce Back Loan from L, or in its restriction and closure of 
the companys bank account. It follows that there is no basis on which I could fairly hold 
the bank responsible for any impact this may have had on the company.
Metro accepted my provisional decision, but Mr A didnt. He replied to say, in summary, that:
L had complied with all of the conditions of the Bounce Back Loan and neither Metro 
nor I had identified where the company had breached them, other than possibly 
failing fraud, anti-money laundering or Know Your Customer checks  for which the 
bank had provided the company no explanation. And this was incompatible with 
Metros confirmation that it held no adverse data about the company or its directors.
Metro had breached its own terms and conditions in taking the actions it had, and L 
was entitled to an explanation of that as part of my review.
Without being given information as to why its application had failed on retrospective 
review, L had been unfairly disadvantaged in being able to challenge the decision. 
He maintained that L had been trading at the requisite times and considered that this 
had already been substantiated to us by information provided during the course of 
our investigation. He also forwarded emails from third parties, who said they were 
clients of L and that the company had been engaged in its work prior to 1 March 2020. And he said that the company start date of January 2021 posted on its website 
had been an error, which had since been amended.
He also maintained that L had been entitled to use an estimated turnover figure when 
applying and refuted any allegation that it was false. And there were no conditions 
attached to the estimate requiring that it must subsequently be earned.
Metro ought to have investigated any concerns as to Ls eligibility more thoroughly 
before reaching its decision, having only asked for bank statements or accounts prior 
to February 2020  which it was always going to be unable to provide given its 
incorporation date. Had Metro made appropriate enquiries, L wouldve been able to 
satisfy the banks concerns by providing it the substantiation of its trading activity that 
it had given us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why Mr As further submissions havent changed my view.
Mr A has referred to the only possible basis of Metros actions as L having failed Metros 
fraud, ant-money laundering or Know Your Customer checks. He doesnt think Metro (or I) 
have set out in any appropriate level of detail how this decision was reached. And he thinks 
Metro is the party in breach of its contractual obligations. But that isnt my view of things. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought Metro had been entitled to take the action it 
had. As I explained, the terms and conditions of the loan agreement allowed Metro to 
terminate the agreement where any of the representations L made to Metro became 
materially misleading or incorrect. L had declared it was carrying on business on 1 March 
2020 (and at the time of its application), and that its estimated turnover of £300,000 was 
accurate  and I thought Metro had reasonable grounds to consider both of these 
declarations to have been incorrect. They were also of material relevance, given that they 
related to the companys eligibility for the government-backed loan under the Scheme rules.
Mr A maintains that these declarations were accurate, but has sent us very little by way of 
additional evidence to support this. I had already reviewed all hed said and provided during 
the course of our investigation. Accepting that the date of establishment posted on Ls 
website was an error, the only further information of note is the email declarations 
purportedly made by clients of L, who confirmed that the company had been engaged in 
work for them prior to 1 March 2020. But this hasnt led me to a different view, given the 
absence of anything to substantiate this  such as invoices or evidence of remuneration for 
such work, which I think ought reasonably to be available. 
There is the further issue with Ls turnover figure, as set out in my provisional decision. 
Theres no dispute that companies established after 1 January 2019  as L was  could use 
a projected turnover figure, and I confirmed as much in my provisional decision. But when 
submitting its application, L confirmed that its estimate of £300,000 was accurate. I dont 
think it was. Thats not because it wasnt subsequently earned, but because Ive seen no 
basis on which L could reasonably have expected to generate an income of this amount. 
Either way, that L wasnt trading at the requisite time was sufficient grounds in and of itself 
for Metro to terminate the agreement.Mr A also says L hasnt been given fair opportunity to challenge the basis of Metros 
decision. While I agree that the initial enquiries Metro raised as to whether the company was 
trading prior to 1 March 2020 ought reasonably to have been somewhat broader, I dont 
think that this has prejudiced Ls position. Mr A has, through our process, been provided with 
ample opportunity to evidence Ls trading activity and in turn its eligibility for the Bounce 
Back Loan. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think he has. So even if Metro had looked 
into things more thoroughly before terminating the agreement, it would only have received 
the information that we have and legitimately reached the same decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman