DRN-4108410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that a transfer was rejected by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have told us they sent a transfer for $120,000 from a bank in the US Ill call W 
on 27 September 2022. Barclays says that when it received the transfer instruction the 
details included were incomplete so it couldnt be paid to Mr and Mrs Rs account. 
Mr R has told us he contacted Barclays on 28 September 2022 and was told the transfer 
hadnt been received and asked to call back in a few days. Mr R says that when he spoke 
with Barclays again on 30 September 2022 he was told the funds hadnt been received. But 
Mr R says it was later confirmed that the transfer had already been returned to W. 
The funds were subsequently received back by W. But Mr and Mrs R have told us that the 
timing of the returned transfer caused a loss as theyd intended to convert the dollars to 
sterling. Mr and Mrs R complained to Barclays. 
Barclays issued a final response and said the transfer instruction it received from W didnt 
contain the sort code in the beneficiary account field of the payment instruction. As a result, 
Barclays says it returned the transfer to W. Barclays offered Mr and Mrs R £200 to apologise 
for any inconvenience caused but didnt agree it had made a mistake by returning the 
transfer. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr and Mrs Rs case. They thought Barclays had 
dealt the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr and Mrs R asked to appeal 
and said W had advised the payment information included in the transfer instruction was 
correct and in line with its process. As Mr and Mrs R asked to appeal their complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
From the information available, I think the key issue here is whether Barclays acted 
reasonably by returning the transfer it received on the basis the instruction wasnt correctly 
completed. I understand Mr R has checked with W and its confirmed the correct process 
was followed. But Im only looking at Barclays actions and whether it made a mistake by 
returning Mr and Mrs Rs transfer instead of applying it to their account. Ive looked at 
industry guidance concerning what the relevant fields of the international transfer instructions 
should contain when reaching my decision. 
Barclays has supplied a copy of the payment instruction and says the sort code was missed 
from the beneficiary details. Looking at the transfer instruction, I can see that field 59 which 
is used for the final beneficiary details only contains the account number, not the sort code. 
Further down the instruction, field 72 is used for Sender to Receiver information and 
contains the notation ACC/SC which refers to Account number and Sort Code. But only Mr 
and Mrs Rs sort code was given in this field, no account number. So whilst I can see the 
sort code and account number were given separately, they werent included in the same field 
within the instruction. Im satisfied that Barclays has correctly advised that the payment 
instruction wasnt received in line with the format it expects. 
Ive considered whether Barclays should reasonably have proceeded based on the format of 
the transfer instruction and information it included. But I think its fair to note that payment 
services of this nature are largely automated. And Barclays has confirmed the transfer was 
checked and correctly returned on the basis that the information included within the 
instruction wasnt in line with the information it normally receives. I think Barclays point that 
the sort code and account number werent included in the same field is reasonable. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr and Mrs R but I havent been persuaded Barclays acted unfairly or made a 
mistake when returning the transfer. 
Mr R has explained he wasnt given clear information by Barclays when he called to query 
the status of the transfer. In particular, Mr R has told us he wasnt informed the funds had 
been returned to W when he called and that the service provided was poor. I agree Barclays 
could have told Mr R the transfer had been returned at an earlier point and that the service 
provided should have been better at times. 
Barclays final response apologised and offered Mr and Mrs R £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. In my view, £200 is a reasonable reflection of the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused and is a fair way to resolve Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. As I havent 
been persuaded Barclays made a mistake by returning the transfer and Im satisfied it has 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman