DRN-1917401
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 with 
an Egg credit card. Miss O says Canada Square Operations Limited trading as Egg, 
(Canada Square) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss O says if shed been given the choice, she wouldnt have taken out the PPI. She says 
her application was made online and PPI was already ticked without an option to edit it. 
Canada Square says it was added to her account after she requested cover. Where there is 
a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the available 
evidence - this includes Miss Os and Canada Squares testimony and any documents they 
have submitted. 
Canada Square has given us screenshots of the sorts of questions it says Miss O wouldve 
been asked in her online application. There is a section in the application called Payment 
Protection, which Miss O would have had to complete before she moved on to the next step. 
This gives some limited information about what cover the PPI provides and gave Miss O the 
option to say Yes, I would like to protect my repayments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Or No, I do not wish to protect my repayment and I understand it will be my 
responsibility to keep up my repayments if I fall ill or lose my job.
So its more likely than not the PPI was presented as optional. Theres nothing to suggest 
Miss O had to say yes or that the box to say Yes was pre-ticked. 
Having thought carefully about what Ive seen and heard, including MissOs testimony, I 
think its more likely that Miss O clicked the Yes box and selected PPI. So, overall, I think 
Canada Square made it clear that Miss O didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out. 
It may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI on either an advised (or 
recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale would usually mean that the 
seller seeks out specific information about a customers personal and wider financial 
circumstances to assess whether a PPI policy was suitable for that particular customer. 
I havent seen any evidence that Canada Square gave Miss O a tailored recommendation, 
so I dont think it advised Miss O to take the PPI  so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss O got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. The information Canada Square gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as Ive said, the section in the application about PPI does give some limited 
information about the cover provided by the policy and theres also some information about 
the cost. So it seems Miss O was interested in the type of cover provided by the PPI and she 
would have known it wasnt free. 
I accept its possible she might not have wanted the cover if shed had better information 
about the other features of the PPI  such as the exclusions to and limitations on the cover. 
But, based on what Miss O has told us about her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of these. She was also eligible for the policy and it looks like it 
was affordable. So its unlikely better information would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Miss O says her employer provided her with some sick pay and she also had £2,000 of 
savings she couldve used to help her make repayments if she had found herself 
unexpectedly out of work. But Miss O chose to take out the PPI, knowing shed get sick pay 
and she had some savings. And theres nothing about the information that wasnt as clear as 
it should have been thats likely to have led to her making a different decision. 
Overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman