DRN-3189849
The complaint
C Ltd, represented by Mr L, complained about the exchange rate which TSB Bank PLC 
applied to two incoming credits to its account.
C Ltd wants a refund of the fees charged, plus compensation for Mr Ls time spent and 
frustration.
What happened
On 1 December 2020, C Ltds TSB account received two international payments in Euros. 
They were for €36,375 and €14,550.
TSB converted these into sterling on the day the payments came in. The exchange rate 
used was 1.149510. There were no separate fees charged. So the credits to C Ltds account 
were for £31,643.92 and £12,657.57.
On 3 December, C Ltd complained about the exchange rate. Mr L said that it wasnt the best 
available rate. 
TSB didnt uphold C Ltds complaint. It explained that the sender abroad had the choice of 
sending the payment in their own currency, or in the currency of the beneficiary account. If a 
recipient wants to guarantee how much they receive in sterling, the sender should send the 
money in sterling. TSB said that in this case, the sender had sent the payments in Euros, so 
TSB had converted them based on its own daily rates. TSB said that these rates were linked 
to live industry exchange rates, plus a margin (TSBs commission). And it said the sender 
would have agreed to accept TSBs conversion rate.
C Ltd, represented by Mr L, wasnt satisfied. He spoke to four TSB employees and was 
unhappy because none of them could tell him the margin he was charged, above the current 
market currency rate, when he received a credit in a foreign currency.
TSB replied that it didnt publish exchange rates it used, because they could change by the 
minute. Nor did it publish its margin, because that depended on the amount being sent, and 
whether or not a UK agent bank was involved. 
C Ltd, represented by Mr L, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said it was 
unacceptable that TSB didnt provide information about the margin it charged for currency 
conversion. He said that TSB hadnt asked him to accept this unethical policy when he 
opened the account, and it was misleading that its online documentation said it didnt charge 
fees for currency conversions  but there was no mention of the exchange rate margin. Mr L 
said that C Ltd had been charged around £1,500 in fees which he said was more than 3%. C 
Ltd wanted a refund of the margin TSB had charged for the currency conversions.
Our investigator didnt uphold C Ltds complaint. He checked the market data and agreed 
there had been a difference between the average market rate on 1 December 2020, and 
TSBs rate of the day. But he said that banks can set their own exchange rates, and he 
couldnt say it was unfair that TSBs rate was different from the average daily rate. He said 
that TSB hadnt added any extra fees, and the payments had been processed at the rates 
accepted by the sender. 
C Ltd, represented by Mr L, didnt agree. Mr L said:
- A 4% margin for currency was a steal, and not telling the clients about hidden 
charges was systematic fraud;
- Anyone closing their eyes to such fraud became an accomplice;
- Hed lost around £1,500;
- He asked whether the investigator had contacted the foreign bank, and whether that 
bank had told the investigator that it asked its clients to accept the specific rate 
imposed by the receiving bank;
- If the investigator hadnt done this, there was a serious problem with the way this 
service conducted its investigations. He said it seemed to him that the investigator 
had felt he had to justify whatever a bank does, even by making up facts.
C Ltd asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether there was a loss
Ive checked the average exchange rate for 1 December 2020, and compared it to the rate 
which TSB charged C Ltd. The TSB rate differed from the average rate, by around 3% by my 
calculations. So I can understand why Mr L was annoyed.
But its necessary to establish what TSB had set out as its terms, conditions and other rules 
relating to C Ltds account. C Ltd agreed to these when taking out the account. 
International Services tariff
The terms and conditions refer to charges brochures, available from relationship managers 
or the website. Exchange rates are reflected in the International Services Tariff. This says:
Receiving money from abroad 
If you credit your sterling account with a foreign currency, the amount will be calculated 
according to the exchange rate on the day your payment is credited. 
C Ltds incoming credit was applied on the day it came in, but its what exchange rate was 
used, not the date when it was credited, which is at issue here, so this section doesnt help. 
This section isnt particularly clear about whether the rate used is the average exchange rate 
for the day, or a different rate of TSBs own. So I asked TSB whether it provides customers 
with any other information around this  for example to clarify whether the rate would be 
based on the average exchange rate of the day, or not. And I asked why, if there were no 
warnings that the rate would be different from the average exchange rate of the day, there 
were no such warnings. 
TSBs reply said that the customer isnt advised in advance of the rate, because its 
information states it will use the exchange rate on the day the payment is dealt with. This 
didnt answer the question about the basis for the exchange rate.
Business banking terms and conditionsTo try to obtain clarity, I looked at the Business Banking terms and conditions. They  include 
a section which says:
Unless agreed otherwise, we use a Reference Exchange Rate for foreign exchange 
transactions. We may change our Reference Exchange Rate at any time and without notice 
to you. Such changes to a Reference Exchange Rate will be applied immediately. You can 
obtain details of our Reference Exchange Rate by telephoning the number given in the 
Payment Transaction brochure or such other number as we advise from time to time.
In other words, TSB could apply its own exchange rate, and wasnt tied to the average 
exchange rate. But I have to consider whether it did that fairly in the circumstances here.
Whether TSB had the right to apply the rate it did
I consider its unhelpful to customers that they arent advised in documentation about how 
the rate will be calculated  in other words, that it will be an unspecified rate of TSBs own, 
and not based on the average exchange rate of the day. 
In C Ltds case, the complaint relates to an incoming payment from a customer paying an 
invoice. Even if Mr L had known that TSB charged more than the average exchange rate, I 
dont think its likely that he could or would have known exactly when the customer would 
pay their invoice. So Mr L could have phoned TSB that day, and he would have been told 
the Reference Exchange Rate. The problem is that he wouldnt have known when to do that 
 and even if he did know, or had a promise from the customer, he didnt do that here.  In 
any case it wouldnt have been practical to tell a customer when to pay their invoice to 
minimise exchange rate loss. And as there was a difference of about 3% that day between 
TSBs rate and the average exchange rate, theres nothing to say that this percentage 
difference wouldnt have applied on other days, too. 
With hindsight, C Ltd could have asked the customer to pay in sterling, which would have 
given certainty about the amount received. But I recognise that this would mean the 
customer bore the additional cost, which might make C Ltds services appear less 
competitive.
So I am sympathetic to Mr Ls frustration. But the section in the business banking terms and 
conditions means that TSB did have the right to charge its own exchange rate, and to 
change that without notice to customers. Thats ultimately what it did here and I dont think 
that even if things were clearer, that it would have made a difference to C Ltd  given the 
nature of this payment. This means that I cant uphold Ltds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman