DRN-4196347
The complaint
Mr K complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim for a new vehicle 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering his car.
Hed bought his car new, using a third-party finance company Ill refer to as B to fund it.
His car was stolen and he made a claim in early October 2022. 
The policy with UKI included a new car replacement cover. What this means is, UKI would 
replace his car with a brand new one of the same make and model. Mr K wanted this to 
happen.
The were problems with UKI not realising he had this cover and getting an engineer to 
contact Mr K.
About three weeks after the car was taken, UKI tried to order a new car from the 
manufacturer. It said it would take about 8-9 months to ge it.
Mr K found a car in stock but with a different specification. He was happy to pay towards the 
difference. B said it wouldnt approve the finance agreement on the stock vehicle as its 
specification was different. The only option for a new car was to wait for the manufacturer to 
deliver one.
UKI offered Mr K a cash settlement of £35,162.80, less Mr Ks excess.
There was a problem obtaining the correct settlement figure from B. This was rectified and 
Mr Ks finance agreement was settled.
Mr K complained about UKIs processes and service during his claim. He says it would be 
almost impossible to obtain a new car replacement under its policy wording so he thinks the 
policy has been mis-sold. 
UKI upheld part of his complaint. It said itd given Mr K poor service and caused delays in 
paying B, an engineer appointment, during the claim generally and because it gave him an 
unsuitable hire car. It awarded him a total of £425 compensation.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says the claim will cost 
him an additional £4,500 to get a replacement. Our investigator looked into it and thought it 
wouldnt be upheld. He thought UKIs service hadnt been very good, but its offer of 
compensation was fair. He said he thought UKIs policy was clear and it had settled the 
claim accordingly.
Mr K didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
him and Ill explain why Ive made this decision.
Our approach is to consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and fairly and reasonably. 
New car replacement
The key part of Mr Ks claim is about the section of his policy called New car replacement 
and Ive included the relevant parts of it here:
If your new car is stolen and not recovered or written off well replace it with one of 
the same make and model.
We can only do this if a replacement car is available in the UK and so long as anyone 
else who has an interest in your car agrees.  
If a suitable replacement car is not available, we will pay you the market value of your 
car at the time of the loss (less any excess that may apply).
Its clear that Mr Ks car was suitable for replacement under the terms of the policy. 
But the terms of the policy also clearly state that its replacement can only happen if anyone 
else who has an interest in your car agrees. In Mr Ks case, this means B. I can see that its 
refusal to consider replacement with the stock car found by Mr K meant that UKIs hands 
were effectively tied.
I know Mr K has also expressed disappointment that UKIs car replacement process also 
means he would have to wait for 8-9 months for the car to be built by the manufacturer. I 
also know vehicle lead-times are long which seems to be a global automotive industry issue 
at present. In later correspondence he also says it would be possible to get a car faster via 
different channels. Ive not looked into this more, but there are other factors to consider such 
as Bs interest in the car, and UKIs supplier network.
The alternative approach under the policy was to pay Mr K the market value of his car, and I 
can see UKI did this. 
The refusal of B to consider the alternative car means that UKI werent able to settle Mr Ks 
claim as quickly as he wished. But the offer to replace existed, and a suitable alternative was 
ultimately used under the terms of the policy. Mr K has expressed his disappointment with 
UKIs product, saying they cannot fulfil the service in a reasonable way but Ive explained 
above that UKI would have been able to provide the replacement and werent able to 
because of B and the way Mr K chose to buy his car. 
So I cant say UKI has acted unfairly here.
Service
UKI has already agreed that its service wasnt very good during Mr Ks claim. I can see early 
on he tried to ask UKI about the cover he had, and its claims handlers werent readily able to provide him with an answer. Mr K also said two claims handlers didnt know about the cover 
he had for new car replacement.
I can see UKI provided Mr K with a hire car during his claim. He was told by the hire 
company he wouldnt be insured, when he actually would be covered by UKI. I can see UKI 
clarified this, and its also mentioned in the policy wording.
The hire car was too large, and Mr K asked for another one. The second hire car wasnt of a 
good enough quality and Mr K complained about this. Mr K was provided with hire cars from 
about four days after his claim until his claim was settled about six weeks later.
Mr K was promised calls back, which he didnt receive. 
There was a delay assessing his vehicle. Mr K was told incorrect information about when an 
engineer would be available. Being given incorrect information happened a few times during 
his claim.
His claim was settled about seven weeks after he contacted UKI. 
Some mistakes were made with payments to B, that were later corrected.
UKI offered Mr K a total of £425 compensation for its poor service and the experience he 
had.
I know Mr K has asked for a much larger figure than this amount, but his calculation relates 
mainly to the replacement car he wanted to obtain, and the associated costs of finance and 
various other factors. Ive said above that I think UKI acted fairly in how it settled Mr Ks 
claim.
Ive also considered the impact the claims process had on Mr K and this services guidelines 
on compensation. Its inevitable with any insurance claim to expect a certain amount of 
disruption to normal life and I can see that UKIs service made this process much worse than 
it needed to be. Mr K was provided with a hire car almost throughout his claim, and hes 
been paid £425 compensation by UKI.
Taking everything into account, I think this amount is fair and Im not going to ask UKI to pay 
more.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman