DRN-3581254
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy about the way Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) calculated the benefit under 
his permanent health insurance policy.
What happened
Many years ago, Mr O took a permanent health insurance policy (the policy) which would
provide a weekly benefit in the event of ill health (or accident).
In the Spring of 2020, Mr O made a claim under the policy. From a medical perspective, the
claim was accepted in June 2020 but at that stage, Phoenix needed more financial
information from Mr O so that it could calculate the benefit he was due under the policy.
Phoenix says the benefit due under the policy is restricted if the income received whilst
off work (for this policy, any similar insurances, and any earnings payable) is more than two
thirds of his normal earnings.
Phoenix also says when calculating normal earnings under the policy, it looks at relevant
income received in the 12 months prior to incapacity.
To assess Mr Os pre-incapacity earnings  and the benefit amount due to Mr O under the
policy - Phoenix requested copies of his annual tax returns and company accounts. Having
considered the information, Phoenix concluded that Mr Os income for the 12 months prior to
incapacity wouldve resulted in no benefit being payable under the terms of the policy.
So, it decided to average Mr Os income over a period of three years prior to his incapacity,
amounting to around £7,350  which it said was the maximum entitlement under the policy.
Under the policy terms, Phoenix said the benefit equated to two thirds of this amounts,
meaning that the annual benefit was just under £5,000. However, from this amount, it said it
was entitled to deduct any earnings (or other insurance benefit) Mr O received whilst he was
off work. It asked Mr O to provide an estimate of his anticipated earnings whilst he was
wasnt working.
Unhappy with the way in which Phoenix calculated the benefit under the policy, Mr O raised
a complaint with Phoenix. He says he should be entitled to the sum assured under the policy
- around £28,240 per year at the time of his claim.
Phoenix didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, Mr O referred his complaint to our
service. Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O disagreed. So, his complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and
decide.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2022 explaining why I was intending to uphold most 
of Mr Os concerns. I said:
.
Phoenix has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline a claim.
Mr Os schedule of insurance (Schedule) sets out the weekly benefit in the event of a
successful claim, which it says will be payable every four weeks in arrears.
Next to the heading: benefit and event it says:
The Benefit is payable during continuous total disability of the Life Assured
continuing beyond the waiting period of 8 weeks subject to the conditions contained
herein
The claim was accepted, Mr O having satisfied that he was continuously and totally disabled
during the 8 weeks waiting period.
So subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, Mr O was entitled to the
benefit under the policy.
The policy does have a section entitled: Limitation of Benefits. It says:
The combined weekly benefits secured by this and any other insurances against
disability by sickness or accident, including benefits from the Life Assureds
employer, must not exceed two thirds of the Life Assureds weekly earnings.
The term weekly earnings isnt defined under the policy terms Phoenix has more recently
provided our service, as being applicable to Mr Os claim.
Its stated on Mr Os tax return 2020 that hes in employment. Hes ticked the box to say that
he is an employee, director, office holder or agency worker in the year to 5 April 2020. Given
what hes told us, Im satisfied that he was an employee and director of a company that he
and his wife run (the company).
How Phoenix has calculated the benefit
In a letter to Mr O dated July 2020, Phoenix has set out a breakdown of the calculation its
used to support the benefit amount under the policy.
It has calculated Mr Os pre-incapacity earnings as follows:
2019 H M Revenue & Customs Tax Return
Dividends: £29,147.93, of which £29,040.00 are from the company
PAYE: £4,620.00
In receipt of monies from property rental but this will continue so not taken into
account.
2019 Accounts for year ending 31 March 2019
Net Loss of £33,057.00
2018 H M Revenue & Customs Tax Return
Dividends: £26,722.00, of which £26,400.00 are from the company.
PAYE: £4,620.00
In receipt of monies from property rental but this will continue so not taken into
account.2018 Accounts for year ending 31 March 2018
Net profit of £8,164.00
2017 H M Revenue & Customs Tax Return
Dividends: £22,313.14, of which £22,200.00 are from the company
PAYE: £4,620.00
In receipt of monies from property rental but this will continue so not taken into
Account
2017 Accounts for year ending 31 March 2017
Net Loss of £29,070.00
Phoenix has then taken the lesser of the net profit or dividends over an average of three 
years and calculated the benefit as follows:
2017 - loss
2018 - profit of £8,164.00
2019  loss
Average over three years = £8,164.00
Divided by three years = £2,721.33 per year
Its then added the PAYE salary of £4,620.00 to that figure, totalling £7,341.33.
Two thirds of £7,341.33 = £4,894.22 per annum.
As mentioned above, Phoenixs calculations are based on its position that Mr Os pre-
incapacity earnings are calculated using an average of the lesser of the net profit or
dividends over the three complete financial years prior to incapacity, plus PAYE in the twelve
months prior to incapacity.
However, that isnt set out anywhere in the policy terms Phoenix has recently provided to our
service as being applicable to Mr Os claim. Theres no mention of net profit at all in the
policy terms (or earnings being restricted to the amount of net profit earned by the
Company).
So, Ive gone on to consider whether the way in which Phoenix has calculated earnings is
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
As mentioned above, earnings (or pre-incapacity earnings) isnt defined under the policy.
I think its good industry practice for underwriters of insurance policies to clearly set out the
terms, including providing clear definitions of key words or phrases which could be
ambiguous and have various different meanings  like earnings in this case.
Im satisfied that earnings can have many meanings. Ive thought very carefully about
whether Phoenixs interpretation of earnings in Mr Os case is fair and reasonable. And I
dont think it is. So, I dont think its calculated the benefit under the policy fairly and
reasonably here.
In the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that a reasonable person would reasonably
interpret earnings to include dividends that are paid to Mr O, as a director, and PAYE
salary earnt in connection with his employment. Afterall, it is through both dividends and
PAYE salary that Mr O is renumerated.Phoenix says it calculates earnings in the 12 months before incapacity. Again, thats not
contained in the policy terms. There is reference to average weekly earnings during the 12
months prior to disability in the proportionate benefit section of the policy. But I dont think
thats applicable here as that relates to certain circumstances where the Life Assured
engages in another occupation after the end of the waiting period. Mr O didnt engage in
another occupation after the end of the waiting period. Further, theres also mention of this
time period when calculating the rehabilitation benefit but again thats relevant to when the
policyholder returns to work after the waiting period but the return to work is restricted,
resulting in a loss of earnings.
But in this case, Im prepared to accept earnings being calculated over the 12 months before
incapacity. As thats the most beneficial period to Mr O  looking at the PAYE salary and
dividends he received each year from 2013  even considering an average over three, or
even seven years here. So, I dont think hes being disadvantaged by taking that as the
appropriate period of time.
Taking into account dividends and PAYE salary paid to Mr O for the 12 months prior to Mr
Os total disability, his earnings exceeded the sum assured  which was around £28,400 at
the time of claim.
Im satisfied that the weekly earnings would be the amount Mr O received in PAYE salary
and dividends in the 12 months prior to incapacity. Based on the figures put forward by
Phoenix in its letter dated July 2020  which arent inconsistent with information put forward
by Mr Os accountant  this equates to around £33,660.
And two thirds of that amount is around £22,440.
Phoenix has also pointed to the application form completed by or on behalf of Mr O in the
early 1990s. On the form it says:
The benefits will be restricted if the income you receive whilst off work (from this
policy, any similar insurances and any earnings still payable) is more than two thirds
or your normal earnings.
However, thats different to what the policy says.
The Limitation of Benefits section of the policy says the combined weekly benefits secured
by the policy and any other insurances against disability by sickness or accident, including
benefits from the Life Assureds employer, must not exceed two thirds of the Life Assureds
weekly earnings.
So, I think the policy is clear; the benefits paid by the employer should be taken into account
when considering whether the maximum benefit exceeds two thirds of Mr Os weekly
earnings; and it doesnt include any earnings still payable as set out in the application form.
Im not persuaded that the application form forms part of the insurance contact Mr O entered
into with Phoenix, and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to read that into the
limitation of benefit term.
Phoenix has said in its letter to Mr O dated 9 July 2020 that its required to deduct any
continued earnings from pre-incapacity earnings (for the period in which the claim is payable
and Mr O remain totally disabled because of illness). But again, thats not set out in the
policy terms and conditions.
So, although from the accountants letter Ive seen dated November 2020, Mr O was paidaround £9,000 in PAYE salary for 2020 (some of which wouldve been during the period he
wasnt working due to illness) and around £3,000 in dividends (60% of the total dividends
paid by the Company that year), I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Phoenix to
deduct such amounts from the benefit to be paid under the policy whilst Mr O was off sick
from work in the absence of a term in the policy expressly allowing it to do so.
Rehabilitation benefit
The policy also says:
If immediately following a period during which the full benefit has been payable, the
Life Assured resumes the occupations(s) in which he was engaged immediately
prior to disability on a basis restricted by disability with a consequent loss of
earnings, a reduced benefit will be payable.
This benefit is calculated as follows:
A proportion of the benefit stated in the Schedule which the loss of weekly earnings
bears to the average weekly earnings during the 12 months prior to disability
The rehabilitation benefit will be paid for a maximum of 12 months.
Mr O says he returned to work, in a limited capacity, in May 2021 probably working a couple
of days a week. Mr O says he was receiving a salary of £1,000 per month from the
company in May 2021 and that continues to date  but he says he hasnt received dividends
due to the performance of the company whilst he was off sick and since he returned.
Upon Mr O providing Phoenix with documentary evidence of his return to work in May 2021
(in a limited capacity), I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to consider a claim for
rehabilitation under the policy.
However, I dont think its entirely clear from the policy terms how the rehabilitation benefit is
to be calculated. When responding to my provisional decision, Id be grateful if Phoenix
could provide to our service an explanation as to how it intends to calculate the rehabilitation
benefit and  taking into account my provisional findings above about the calculation of
earnings.
Rental income
Mr O has said that the rental income he received from renting a property he and his wife
owned to the company should also be included in earnings. And it shouldnt be deducted
from ongoing earnings as the company would only be paying rent to him for the period the
company could afford to pay him. And if he wasnt working, the company is unlikely to be
able to continue to pay the rent.
In the absence of earnings being defined in the policy; I dont think Phoenix has acted
unfairly by not including the rental income in the benefit calculations.
In the circumstances of this case, I dont think rental income can fairly and reasonably be
considered to be earnings arising from Mr Os employment in this particular case. And so, I
dont think it would be fair to include the rental income in his pre-incapacity earnings.
Even if there was no lease, contract or tenancy agreement in place which determines or
guarantees Mr O and his wife income rent, as its detailed as rent on his tax returns, I dont
think Phoenix has acted unfairly by not taking this into account as part of his earnings.The cost of the accounts report
Mr O provided Phoenix with an accountants report, setting out a breakdown of certain
amounts paid to him by the company over many years before he became totally disabled in
2020  and for 2020.
He was invoiced almost £2,000 for this.
I accept that Phoenix didnt request this information from Mr O and although I can see why
he felt the accountants report provided key information, I also accept that most of the
information contained in the report couldve been ascertained from his tax returns and the
company accounts provided.
Ive thought very carefully about whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct
Phoenix to reimburse him for this fee. And I think Phoenix ought to.
Mr O wanted to provide this information so that Phoenix could see the companys
expenditure on salary, rent and dividends going back to 2013. And that was only because
Phoenix had said it would go back three years and Mr O thought it would be fair for Phoenix
to look back over a longer period. However, that wouldve all been avoided if Phoenix had
acted fairly and reasonably in the interpretation of the policy terms when providing a
breakdown of the benefit calculation in July 2020.
Waiver of premium
The policy terms and conditions also say that:
If the benefit becomes payable, the premiums (or part thereof) which correspond to
the period which benefit is paid will be waived or refunded.
As I understand Phoenix has still been collecting monthly premiums from Mr O during the
time he was out of work and after hed made a claim under the policy.
As Im currently satisfied that Mr Os claim shouldve been paid shortly after the waiting
period had ended, Im also satisfied that the premium shouldnt have been collected from
that point.
Its not clear form the policy when the premium waiver ends. It says it will be paid for the
period during which the benefit is paid. But its not clear whether the premium waiver
continues during the period when the rehabilitation benefit is paid. As this is also a benefit
payable under the policy, in the absence of the policy being explicit on this point, I think its
fair and reasonable in this case to extend the premium waiver until the date on which the
rehabilitation benefit ends.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr O has said he had to borrow £10,000 from a family member in 2020 and another £5,000
in 2021. Hes also borrowed money from the business to pay for his travel season ticket.
Given that Mr Os absence from work coincided with the emergence of the global Covid-19
pandemic, I think its reasonable to assume that this wouldve been a very worrying time for
Mr O  particularly given his health at the time.
However, I also accept that having to engage in lots of correspondence with Phoenixwouldve caused him unnecessary additional distress and inconvenience. And not receiving
the benefit under the policy  and Phoenixs repeated explanations  which Ive provisionally
decided were misplaced and not based on the terms of the policy Mr O had the benefit of 
wouldve caused him considerable distress, worry and frustration over a significant period of
time. And this was at a time he was also unwell and undergoing treatment. This has also
been made worse by Phoenix continuing to collect monthly premiums from Mr O.
I accept what Mr O says about asking a family member for financial support and although he
wont have to pay any interest on the loan amounts, I think he experienced unnecessary
inconvenience having to ask the family member for two loans. Its likely this wouldve all
been avoided if Phoenix had calculated Mr Os benefit correctly to start with.
..
I then set out what I intended Phoenix to do to put things right for Mr O.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any comments or further 
information. Phoenix didnt reply. 
Mr O responded. In summary he said:
That this was a very distressing time. He felt Phoenix did everything they could to 
reduce their financial obligations putting in place arbitrary rules regarding dividends 
and profits.
Rent should not be considered as rent in the circumstances of this particular case 
and he explained why.  
He would like to claim 12 months of rehabilitation benefit under the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Os complaint to the extent set out in my provisional decision  
an extract of which appears above. When concluding this, Ive taken on board the points Mr 
O has recently made. 
I appreciate that this was a very distressing time for Mr O. Ive explained in my 
provisional decision Phoenixs failure to correctly calculate Mr Os benefit at the 
outset caused him considerable and unnecessary distress, worry and frustration over 
a significant period of time. And this wouldve exacerbated an already very difficult 
time for him. I think its fair and reasonable for Phoenix to pay him £750 
compensation to reflect this. 
I understand the points Mr O has raised regarding the rental income. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, in the absence of earnings being defined in 
the policy, I dont think Phoenix has acted unfairly by not including the rental income 
in the benefit calculations. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think rental 
income can fairly and reasonably be considered to be earnings arising from Mr Os 
employment. Even if there was no lease, contract or tenancy agreement in place 
which determines or guarantees Mr O and his wife income rent, as its detailed as 
rent on his tax returns, I dont think Phoenix has acted unfairly by not taking this into account as part of his earnings. And the points Mr O has raised in response to my 
provisional decision dont change my mind on this issue. 
Phoenix hasnt responded to my provisional decision or provided an explanation as 
to how it intends to calculate the rehabilitation benefit. But upon Mr O providing 
Phoenix with documentary evidence of his return to work in May 2021(in a limited 
capacity), I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to consider a claim for 
rehabilitation benefit under the policy. If Mr O is unhappy with Phoenixs assessment 
of that claim, he is free to complain to Phoenix Life Limited about that in the first 
instance.
Putting things right
In light of my findings above  which includes those detailed in my provisional decision - I 
direct Phoenix Life Limited to put things right by:
Recalculating the exact amount of the weekly benefit Mr O was entitled to under the 
policy and paying that amount to him until he returned to work  even in a limited 
capacity;
Paying Mr O simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date on which the 
first benefit payment was due to him after the expiry of the waiting period (so from 1 
July 2020) to the date on which it makes payment;
Paying Mr O simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date on which he 
shouldve received each amount from the date of each of the monthly payment dates 
after 1 July 2020 to the date on which it makes payment;
Paying Mr O compensation for distress and inconvenience in the sum of £750;
Paying Mr O the cost of the report in the sum of £1,956;
Upon Mr O providing Phoenix with documentary evidence of the date on which he 
paid the accountant as per the invoice, paying Mr O simple interest at a rate of 8% 
per annum from the date on which Mr O settled the invoice, dated 17 November 
2020, to the date on which the interest payment is made to him;
Refunding Mr O the monthly premiums he paid for the policy from the date on which 
the eight weeks waiting period expired to the date on which he was no longer 
entitled to any benefit under the policy (including the rehabilitation benefit);
Paying Mr O simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum in respect of each monthly 
premium that shouldve been waived from the date on which the first premium 
shouldve been waived and simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date 
on which the each subsequent monthly premium shouldve been waived - to the date 
on which it makes payment.
I also direct Phoenix to provide Mr O with a written breakdown of all interest calculations set 
out above within 21 days from the date on which it makes payment to him.
And if Phoenix considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O a
certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way Mr O can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Phoenix Life Limited to put things right as Ive
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman