DRN-2926464
The complaint
Mr M has brought this complaint on behalf his parents estates  the estate of Mr M and the 
estate of Mrs M. I am sorry to hear of the death of Mr Ms parents. 
Mr M complained about the way Lloyds Bank PLC calculated compensation in respect of 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to his parents. He did not agree that Lloyds 
was right to reduce that compensation after it said that his parents had made a successful 
PPI claim. He was also not sure whether Lloyds had correctly calculated its offer of 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr M complained about PPI that was sold alongside eight loans his parents took out. Lloyds 
upheld the complaint and agreed that PPI was mis-sold alongside all loans. It calculated and 
paid compensation in respect of six loans initially to Mrs Ms estate, and then paid the 
remainder to Mr Ms estate. 
Lloyds didnt pay any compensation in respect of the final two loans with account numbers 
ending 2108 and 2109. It said a successful claim had been made in respect of both loans. 
And the amount it said was paid in respect of the claim exceeded the compensation that was 
due. 
I can see there was some confusion about who that claim was paid to and how much was 
paid. So, Mr M brought the complaint to this service. Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds had 
dealt with the PPI compensation fairly. 
Mr M didnt agree. In summary, he said Lloyds had not provided a full picture about the claim 
and had initially stated that his parents had received over £32,000 in PPI claims, which was 
not correct. As Mr M is not in agreement with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Its not in dispute that PPI was mis-sold. So I dont have to look at how the cover came to be 
sold. Im concerned with whether the action Lloyds took to put things right for that mis-sale 
was fair. 
Did Lloyds fairly calculate the compensation? 
As Mr M raised a query about the method used to calculate the PPI compensation, Ive 
looked initially at whether Lloyds worked out the compensation in a fair way. It looks as 
though Mr and Mrs M were sold single premium PPI policies. That means they would have 
had to borrow extra on top of their loans to pay for the cover. They would have also had to 
pay interest on top of that borrowing. 
So, Id expect Lloyds to work out and pay the difference between what was actually paid 
each month on each loan and what would have been paid each month without PPI. If the 
loan was paid off early, Lloyds would need to work out and pay the difference between what 
it cost to repay the loan and what it would have cost if PPI had not been added. And Id also 
expect Lloyds to calculate simple interest to each payment from when it was paid until it was 
refunded. 
For each of the loans Ive referred to above, Ive carefully considered the calculations Lloyds 
provided us. From that information, I can see Lloyds undertook the steps Ive outlined. 
However, in respect of Loans 2108 and 2109, it deducted the value of a claim it says Mr and 
Mrs M made. Ive considered below whether it was right to do that. 
The value of the claims
It may help if I explain that the purpose of paying compensation in respect of mis-sold PPI is 
to put the estate of Mr M and the estate of Mrs M in the position they would have been in if 
the PPI had not been mis-sold. 
What that means in practice in this case is that Lloyds would need to refund what Mr and 
Mrs M paid for PPI during the term of the loans. Thats because Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have 
incurred those extra costs if PPI had never been sold to them. But then if PPI had never 
been sold, Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been able to make a claim. On that basis, I think its 
fair for Lloyds to deduct the value of the claim. If it doesnt do so, then the estates would be 
in a better position than they would have been in if PPI hadnt been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs 
M. Thats because all of the premiums would have been repaid to the estates  and Mr and 
Mrs M would have benefitted from the claim as well. 
There has been some confusion about the value of those claims. And I can see that Lloyds 
made an error when it sent its initial final response letter to the estate of Mrs M. At that point, 
it said £16,358.19 had been paid in respect of loan 2108 and then again in respect of 2109. 
It looked as though over £32,000 had been paid in total. 
But what Lloyds said in that regard wasnt right. From the information Ive seen, the PPI paid 
out 33 payments of £187.57 in respect of loan 2109. The total paid by in respect of this claim 
was £6189.81. 51 payments of £199.38 were paid out by the PPI policy in respect of loan 
2108. The total paid in respect of this claim was £10,168.38. So, the total value of the claims 
across both loans was £16,358.19.
Mr M queried whether such payments had been made at all and said that his parents had 
never received such a significant amount of money. It may help if I explain that PPI would 
have been set up to cover the repayments on his parents loans. So, its most likely that the 
payments were made directly to the loan accounts  not directly to his parents. They 
wouldnt have been paid that money into their bank accounts, but at the same time, they 
wouldnt have had to make the repayments on their loans. 
Mr M further queried why claims were made in respect of both loan accounts. And again, 
from the information Ive seen, it looks to me as though both loans  2108 and 2109  were 
running at the same time. Loan 2109 started in or around April 1995 and was due to be 
repaid over a five-year term. Loan 2108 was taken out in or around November 1996 over 
another five-year term. The claim was paid with effect from 22 August 1997 while both loans 
were still open. The final payment was made to loan 2108 on 20 November 2001. 
I appreciate the error Lloyds made in the initial final response letter caused confusion, but 
even using the correct figures, the value of the claim in both loans was greater than the 
amount paid for PPI. So Lloyds mistake didnt affect the outcome of the complaint. Ive given the issues raised in this complaint very careful thought. But for the reasons set out 
above, I think the method Lloyds used to calculate the compensation was fair. Im satisfied 
that a successful PPI claim was made by Mr and Mrs M and that the value of that claim was 
greater than Lloyds owed the estates of Mr and Mrs M in compensation for loans 2108 and 
2109. With all of these things in mind, I havent upheld the complaint. I dont need to tell 
Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the 
estates of Mrs M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman