DRN-3861817
Complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her accounts and hasnt 
returned the funds that were in them to her.
Background
In September 2022, Ms Ts accounts with Barclays were closed. Ms T was dissatisfied at 
this and complained. Barclays didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. As Ms T remained 
dissatisfied,   Ms T referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ts concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms T unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards    
Ms T and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Ms T, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Ms T is unhappy 
that Barclays closed her accounts. However, each financial institution has its own criteria 
and risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a 
customer with an account is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to 
take. 
Furthermore, while Ms T says her accounts were closed without notice, Im satisfied that 
Barclays sent her letters in February 2022, May 2022 and August 2022 notifying her that her 
accounts were going to be closed. I appreciate that Ms T says that she didnt receive these 
letters. But as Im satisfied that they were sent, I think that Barclays took reasonable steps to 
notify Ms T that it would be closing her accounts.   
I realise that Barclays actions will have been very disappointing to Ms T and I can 
appreciate why the closure of her accounts will have caused her inconvenience. But despite 
this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Barclays it should have continued offering 
Ms T accounts in circumstances where it legitimately decided it no longer wished to provide 
them.
Finally, Ive seen that Barclays has told Ms T what she needs to do in order for the funds that 
remained her accounts to be returned to her. I appreciate that Ms T believes this information 
is unnecessary and has referred to her husband not having to provide this information. 
I dont know the circumstances behind what has happened in relation to Ms Ts husbands 
accounts. All I can do is consider whether I think that Barclays request is reasonable. And 
having considered everything, Im satisfied that it is. So its up to Ms T to now provide the 
information necessary in order to be sent the funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Ms T and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms T. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Barclays was entitled to close her account in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman