DRN-1558662
The complaint
Ms B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds service when she wanted to claim under 
her mobile phone insurance. My references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Ms B said her phone had been hacked and the phone was having software problems. She 
went to a store of the business that administers the policy for Aviva to make a claim.
Ms Bs complains that:
the staff told her hacking wasnt covered by the policy, she wasnt offered a 
replacement phone and she says the staff told her to damage the phone screen as it 
would be quicker to claim
she received rude and aggressive customer service from named store staff
her claim had never been looked into even when she called to make a claim.
Aviva said it had no record of Ms B making an insurance claim. It also said it had no 
evidence to dispute her testimony of what happened in store so apologised and credited her 
account with £20 for her distress and inconvenience.
Ms B complained to us. Shed subsequently sold the phone. She wants Aviva to give her a 
replacement phone with internet capability and compensation for SIM payments she had to 
pay even though shes didnt use the phone. 
Our investigator said Aviva didnt need to do any more to settle Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said she was left without a 
working phone due to Aviva and the store staff giving her wrong information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Avivas records dont show that Ms B called it to make a claim but that she called to 
complain about the service she received in store. Its records do show Ms B mentioned about 
a warranty and it may be that in the call she was trying to make a claim under the policy.
However, even if I thought Aviva should have logged a claim it could have fairly and 
reasonably said her claim wasnt covered by the policy.
The policy is clear Ms B wasnt covered for claims for:
Non-hardware problems, e.g. software problems, data downloads and malware such 
as viruses, worms, spyware, adware or Trojan Horses.
So the policy wouldnt cover Ms Bs phone being hacked and the phones software 
problems. Aviva wouldnt have given Ms B a replacement phone as there was no cover 
under the policy. Theres no basis for me to say Aviva must give Ms B a replacement phone 
or compensate her for the SIM payments she continued to pay.
The store staff correctly told Ms B that the phone being hacked and software problems 
werent covered by the policy. Ms Bs received £20 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience for unacceptable service she says she received in store.
I dont think Aviva needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman