DRN-2755556
The complaint
Ms P complains that she received misleading information on her savings accounts from TSB 
Bank plc (TSB).
 
What happened
Ms P had two savings accounts with TSB  a Classic Plus account and an East Saver 
account. Both received credit interest. In April 2020 she received an Annual Interest 
Summary for the tax year 2019-20 for the Classic Plus account showing interest earned of 
£51.83. In September 2020 she received an Annual Interest Summary for the Easy Saver for 
the tax year 2019-20 showing interest earned £31.29.
Ms P complained. When she called TSB, she was told that the interest on her Easy Saver 
was included in the interest summary for the Classic Plus Account. So thats what she 
reported to HMRC on her tax return. But when she later received the summary for the Easy 
Saver, she realised shed been misinformed  she had given HMRC the wrong information 
because of what TSB had told her. So, she had to advise HMRC to make the necessary 
changes. This involved time and trouble for her. She also questioned why TSB sent out the 
tax statement on Easy Saver so much later after the one for Classic Plus.
TSB apologised. They couldnt trace the calls Ms P made but didnt doubt her version of 
events. They paid compensation of £75, plus call charges of £17.56. They said theyd look at 
the issue of when the tax summaries were sent out to customers.
Ms P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that TSB had apologised and paid 
compensation of £75 plus call costs. She thought this was reasonable. She observed that 
the deadline for sending in tax returns was 31 January 2021  and so the changes couldve 
been made between the receipt of the interest summary for the Easy Saver in September 
2020 and then.
Ms P disagreed. She said she wanted a further £75 of compensation. Shes had to call TSB 
several times and the amount paid by TSB didnt compensate her sufficiently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following our investigators view, Ms P raised a further issue about her annual tax 
summaries for the next tax year - 2020-21. This hasnt been looked at either by TSB or us  
if Ms P wishes to raise a further complaint about this, she should contact TSB in the first 
instance.
Ive looked at what happened. When Ms P received the interest summary for the Classic 
Plus account in April 2020, she though it didnt look right and called TSB about it. She says 
she was told that the interest on her Easy Saver was included on the Classic Plus summary. 
So, that was the amount of interest she put on her tax return to HMRC. She only realised 
this was wrong when she got the interest summary for the Easy Saver much later  in 
September 2020. So, she then had to contact HMRC to say there was an error. This took 
her time and was inconvenient. She has also had to call TSB several times to try to resolve 
what had happened.
To be fair to TSB, they admitted their error, apologised, and paid compensation of £75, plus 
call costs of £17.56. 
So  my review of Ms Ps complaint comes down to what a fair amount of compensation 
would be for what happened.  While I have no doubt that this was frustrating and 
inconvenient for Ms P, I cant see that there was any material loss to her  for example, she 
didnt have to pay any more (or less) tax as a result, as she was able to advise HMRC about 
the error. And in my experience, a call to HMRC  or a simple online form  was all that was 
needed to advise HMRC. So, that process was fairly straightforward.
The amount of compensation is a subjective matter. Our service would define what 
happened as moderate and the compensation awarded by TSB would seem to me to be 
appropriate for what happened.  
So  while I accept that Ms P wants more compensation and will be disappointed, I think 
TSBs payment was right and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman