DRN-3327710
The complaint
Mr L complained about the service that Saga Services Limited (Saga) has provided and 
thinks it has unfairly cancelled his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L was unhappy when his policy was cancelled when he couldnt provide details of the 
exact date his properties were constructed. Mr L didnt think Saga provided a satisfactory 
service as his broker. Mr L was concerned as he was left with inadequate insurance cover 
on his properties and he said he was left in a difficult position getting cover with other 
insurers as he needed to declare his policy with Saga had been cancelled. He said this 
impacted the cost of his future premiums he was asked to pay. He feels this is unfair as hed 
always shared the truth with Saga. Mr L said he didnt know the exact date of construction of 
his properties and said he could only estimate the date. 
Saga explained that the underwriter who provided the cover stipulated to it that Mr L needed 
to provide an exact date of construction of his properties if it was to provide cover to Mr L. As 
Mr L was unable to provide the exact date, the underwriter decided to cancel the policy it 
had offered. Saga said if the underwriter had known that the date of construction was 
unknown it wouldnt have offered a policy in the first place. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Saga wasnt responsible for 
the decision whether to insure or not insure Mr Ls property. She said the decision to cancel 
the policy was made by the underwriter, so she didnt think it was reasonable to hold Saga to 
account when its role was to administer the policy and apply the rules made by the insurer. 
Mr L disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the frustration Mr L has experienced as he has tried to get insurance cover for 
his properties. His properties were built many years ago, so the exact date of construction 
maybe difficult to ascertain. Mr L had also insured his property before by providing an 
estimate of when he thought his building had been built. I think Mr L was genuine in that he 
didnt know when his property was constructed. Instead, he tried to provide an estimate of 
the date of construction a best endeavours basis.
However, I dont think it is fair to hold Saga to account for what has happened. As broker 
Sagas role is to administer the policy in line with the guidelines set out by the insurer. As I 
think Saga has fulfilled its role, I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
The insurer / underwriter makes the decisions on what criteria needs to be in place before it 
provides insurance. I think this is fair as its the insurer who is taking on the risk by providing 
the insurance cover for a set price or premium. Sagas role is to implement these rules. Saga 
has confirmed to Mr L I can confirm that our underwriters require to know the exact year of 
build for property's that were built pre 1850. In this instance, as the year of build for your 
properties was unknown, Saga are regrettably unable to provide cover, which resulted in the 
cancellation of your policy.
Mr L has suggested that he thinks Saga hasnt been truthful in saying the insurer requires 
the exact date and he has said there is other evidence to show Saga hasnt always been 
truthful. However, I can see evidence that Saga specifically spoke to a manager for the 
insurers to clarify its requirements. The underwriter confirmed that it wasnt willing to offer 
cover as you confirmed one of the property walls, was as old as early 1700's. Given Saga 
has gone back to the underwriter to check the requirements, I think it has carried out its role. 
It has communicated to Mr L clearly why the underwriter was unwilling to provide cover. 
I have noted that Mr L is not happy about Sagas statement in relation to the sale of his 
house falling through. I appreciate that Mr L feels this goes to the heart of whether his broker 
has acted truthfully and genuinely. However, I dont need this information as I can see the 
communications Saga had with the insurer, so I know Saga has accurately passed on the 
insurers requirement to know the exact age of construction of the property in order to insure 
it. Therefore, I dont feel I need to answer the question about whether Saga has made a 
mistake or not about commenting on the sale of the house falling through.
Ive also considered the outstanding balance that Mr L has been asked to pay in relation to 
his cover. As Saga has applied the policy terms, it has fulfilled its role as broker. So, I cant 
say its acted unfairly.
Mr L can make a complaint against the underwriter who made the decision on whether to 
provide cover or not and at what price, or to complain about the cancellation specifically. It 
will depend on whats written in the underwriters criteria whether it has treated Mr L fairly or 
not. But, I dont think its fair to uphold this complaint against the broker. Mr L has raised 
other points about the customer service provided. I havent seen any evidence to illustrate 
Saga has provided a poor service, I think the issues are more likely a symptom of Mr L not 
being provided the cover he wanted from the insurer.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Saga Services Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman