DRN-3712925
The complaint
Miss G has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited mis-sold a 
policy to her, has not yet made a decision on her income protection claim or waived her 
premium.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss Gs income protection policy was sold by a financial adviser and not by Royal 
London. I therefore cant consider this issue against Royal London. I note that it gave 
Miss G details of the seller.
Royal London is required to handle claims promptly and fairly. Miss G has an 
ongoing income protection claim. I can see that Royal London received some 
information from Miss Gs employer as well as emails from her in May 2022. 
However it required some more information and wrote to Miss G in July 2022. Having 
not received the information it required Royal London wrote to Miss G again in 
December 2022 and January 2023. 
It is not for this service to assess Miss Gs claim and I can see that Royal London 
isnt yet in a position to do so as it is waiting for information. However, I agree with 
our investigator that the matter could have been handled more pro-actively. I can see 
that the lack of progress has been stressful for Miss G. Although Miss G doesnt feel 
that £150 sufficiently compensates her, Im satisfied that the sum is fair in all the 
circumstances for the delays to date, and I dont increase this recommendation.  
Miss G pays for waiver of premium benefit. Royal London advised Miss G that that 
whilst her claim is being assessed the premium should continue to be paid, but that a 
refund would be made if required when a claims decision is made. I think that this is 
fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited should pay Miss G £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman