DRN-3041960
The complaint
Ms T complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited have mis-sold her professional 
indemnity insurance. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Ms T says that between 2000 and 2021, Towergate have mis-sold her professional 
indemnity insurance. With the exception of a break in cover around 2011, Ms T believed she 
had professional indemnity insurance which would cover her for running workshops with 
young people as a social worker. 
Towergate say that they have no record of having sold Ms T insurance prior to 2008. They 
agree she had cover between May 2008 and May 2011. And again, between February 2012 
and February 2021. But they say the policy has never covered social work.
Ms T complained, she believes the policies have been mis-sold. She is concerned that for 
many years shes paid for unsuitable policies and that she is now professionally vulnerable 
for any historic claims that might arise against her. 
Towergate didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said they had no evidence of being 
aware of Ms Ts professional activities as a social worker. They said all the documentation 
theyd provided made clear the nature of the cover, so they didnt think they needed to do 
more. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. She agreed that Towergate had made sufficiently clear what cover was being 
provided. Ms T disagrees, she is adamant that she would have explained that the workshops 
with young people on a self-employed basis were the main reason she needed cover in the 
first place. She didnt think our investigator had put enough weight on her testimony 
evidence and she asked that an ombudsman review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Ms T, so Ill explain why. 
Ill start by saying that Im not persuaded that Ms T was sold insurance by Towergate prior to 
2008. If she had been, I think its more likely than not that there would have been some 
record of it. Our investigator also pointed out that the 2008 documentation which is available 
refers to a new business pack which doesnt support that at that time, Ms T was an existing 
customer. 
Its agreed that the policies were sold on an advised basis. This means that Towergate were 
obliged to make sure the policies they were selling were suitable and that they met Ms Ts 
insurance needs. 
Given the passage of time, Towergate no longer have records or recordings of the phone 
calls during which the policies were sold. These took place in 2008 and 2012. It doesnt 
appear that there were conversations at any of the renewals until far more recently. 
I dont think this is unreasonable, I wouldnt expect Towergate to retain call recordings for 
such a long period of time. But this makes it very difficult to assess what was said on those 
occasions. 
Ultimately, to conclude that the policies were mis-sold, Id need to be persuaded that Ms T 
made clear the type of insurance she required, and Towergate sold her a policy that wasnt 
suitable.
Ms Ts testimony is that she would have made it clear that she needed cover for running 
workshops with children. She says this is because that was the first type of self-employed 
work that she did and so it would have been an important priority for her. 
I dont doubt Ms Ts honesty or integrity and what shes said does make sense and is 
plausible. But I also have to keep in mind that it is very difficult to remember with certainty 
conversations which took place nine (for 2012) or more (for 2008) years ago. Ms T is 
similarly certain that she had insurance with Towergate since 2000. But there is no further 
evidence to support this. 
In situations such as this I have to make my findings based on what I think is most likely to 
have happened. It wouldnt be fair to uphold this complaint solely on Ms Ts testimony 
without also taking into account documentary evidence from around the time. In 2008 it was 
recorded that Ms Ts policy was under the cover of a scheme that related to a professional 
body. But this wasnt a professional body involved with social work, it primarily related to HR 
and people matters. Whilst this isnt on its own conclusive, I think this means its likely that 
the cover being sought was in that area of professional work. So this doesnt support that 
Ms T would have said that the nature of the insurance she required was related to social 
work. 
When each policy was sold, Ms T was sent a statement of fact. Ive seen examples from 
2008, and 2012 (when policies started) which say:
This statement of fact is based on the information you supplied to us and is the basis of the 
contract between you and the insurer. It is important that you check the information carefully 
and tell us immediately if there are any discrepancies.
All the renewals / inception documents included This policy covers liabilities arising from 
the following business activities only: Personnel, HRD & Training Consultancy. If you are 
carrying out, or have in the past carried out, any activities or therapies not listed, you must 
notify us immediately so we can extend your cover as necessary. 
I think this information is clear and sets out that the cover isnt what Ms T says she was 
expecting. In the event of a policy having been mis-sold, clear information in the subsequent 
documentation doesnt automatically relieve the broker of its obligations in relation to the 
sale. But in this case, it is further evidence, in my opinion, that its most likely the policy sold 
reflected the conversations that had taken place. And if this wasnt the case, its difficult to understand why Ms T didnt raise that with Towergate at any time throughout the significant 
duration of her cover, including numerous renewals. 
There is evidence that Ms T explored making a claim in 2013 in relation to a disciplinary 
matter arising from social work against the policy that Towergate sold. But Im not persuaded 
that this makes a difference to this complaint. I dont think Towergate reasonably could have 
known that Ms T wasnt involved in more than one type of work (social work in addition to 
consultancy etc as covered by the policy). I dont think this enquiry reasonably could have 
caused Towergate to realise the policy wasnt suitable for Ms T. 
Towergate have explained that at a renewal, cover is offered on the basis of the existing 
demands, needs and sums insured. They say the policyholder is encouraged to contact 
them if there are any changes, I think this is reasonable. From time to time Ms T altered the 
sums she was insured for, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Towergate to have 
thought Ms T was reading the policy documentation as she was contacting them when 
changes were required. 
Overall, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to allow me to conclude that the policies were mis-
sold to Ms T. Ive considered Ms Ts testimony evidence carefully, but Im not persuaded it 
can be relied upon as an accurate account of what happened so long ago. What 
documentary evidence we do have, makes sufficiently clear the type of policy that had been 
sold and supports that this was most likely in line with the conversations Ms T would have 
had with Towergate at the time. If this wasnt the case, Id have expected Ms T to have 
raised this issue sooner. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman