DRN-3129851
The complaint
Mr C, through his representative, says Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr C took out a 12-month loan for £1,000 from Bamboo on 2 August 2018. The monthly 
repayment was £115.96 and the total repayable was £1,391.58. 
Mr C says had the lender carried out effective affordability checks it would not have lent to 
him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said Bamboos checks 
showed there was a risk Mr C would not be able to sustainably repay the loan.
Bamboo disagreed, saying its checks were proportionate given the terms of the loan. And, in 
summary, the loan may have been for car repairs, not an additional car; Mr Cs credit report 
was excellent and he was managing all his finances well; and Mr C had confirmed his 
payday borrowing would be repaid in two months and he would have no need for further 
short-term loans. Finally, Mr C repaid the loan as expected so its lending decision caused no 
detriment.
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman to review the case and so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Bamboo lent to Mr C required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Bamboo had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr C. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr C. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
- did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Mr C before it approved the loan. It
asked about his income and carried out a third-party income verification check to understand 
his minimum income. It asked about his residential status and number of dependents. It also 
checked Mr Cs credit file to understand his current credit commitments and credit history. It 
made assumptions about his living expenses based on national averages. It asked about the 
purpose of the loan, which was for a car. From these checks combined Bamboo concluded 
Mr C had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan. But I dont think 
Bamboo made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. I think there were 
signs that Mr Cs finances may be under duress on the credit check. He had over £28,000 of 
unsecured debt across a loan, two hire purchase agreements, six credit cards, home credit 
and a mail order account. Plus he was using his overdraft facility of around £3,000 and had 
an outstanding payday loan taken out in May 2018. Bamboo describes Mr Cs credit report 
as excellent saying he was managing all finances well. But he was already spending over 
40% of his declared income, or almost 60% of his verified minimum income, on servicing 
debt - a very significant amount.
I agree he was making his repayments, but I think it was most likely he was doing so by 
borrowing to repay - and that this was getting worse (as evidenced by the recent payday 
loan and the increase in his overdraft over the last three months). On 19 occasions in the 
previous 12 months Mr C had only made the minimum payment on his credit cards. It is not 
logical that Mr C would be using high-cost short-term loans and applying for this loan if he 
had the level of disposable income Bamboo had calculated. 
I think the lender ought to have realised there was a risk he was having problems managing 
his money and so would need to continue to borrow to repay (either through further 
loans/credit card usage or by being persistently reliant on his overdraft). And it needed to 
check this, not just the pounds and pence affordability, to meet its obligations under CONC 5.3.1(G) which set out that sustainably repaying a debt means without having to borrow to 
repay, amongst other things.
Bamboo argues Mr C repaid the loan as expected so there is no evidence of detriment, but I 
am not persuaded that is a fair conclusion as it does not know how Mr C repaid the loan. I 
can see from the more recent credit check that Mr C has remained persistently reliant on his 
overdraft and I think he most likely used this, or other sources of credit, to manage his 
money and fund his repayments. Bamboo has not evidenced this was not the case. I have 
carefully considered all the comments Bamboo made in response to the investigators 
assessment but for the reasons set out above they do not change my conclusion.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to give this loan to Mr C.
I dont find that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr C.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. And Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
Bamboo should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr C
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Cs loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. Bamboo Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman