DRN-4391283
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels provided him with a 
poor service and delayed in returning his excess to him after he made a claim under his car 
insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr B had a car accident which wasnt his fault and the third party admitted full liability. He 
had to pay the £500 excess in order to have his car repaired as he didnt have legal 
protection cover.  
Mr B says that he had to chase esure repeatedly for the refund of his excess, and that they 
were unhelpful, cut hm off, and were unable to answer his questions. 
Mr B subsequently discovered that esure had received the excess refund from the third party 
insurer on 27 February 2023 but they didnt pay him until May 2023, despite him chasing 
them. 
Mr B raised a complaint and esure initially offered £50 compensation for the poor service, 
increasing it to £100 in July 2023.  
Mr B was unhappy with esures response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and he thought that £200 
compensation more fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Neither esure nor Mr B agreed with the investigators view, and so the case has come to me 
to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint  and I will explain why. 
As its agreed in this case that there was a delay in returning the excess to Mr B, Ive thought 
about whether the compensation offered for this error was sufficient. Ive considered the 
length of the delay, the information provided by esure, and the impact that this had on Mr B. 
   
I consider that £500 is a significant amount of money, and so I would expect an insurer to 
return this money without any delay once it was recovered from any third party. It should 
have been returned shortly after 27 February 2023. 
Mr B has told us that this was a lot of money for him to be out of pocket for and thats why he 
was chasing esure. He says that he made over 50 phone calls to esure in that five month 
period. During these calls he was given a variety of poor information, including being told 
that he needed to chase the third party insurer himself because he had no legal cover, and 
being told to settle 50/50 even though the third party had admitted liability at the time of the 
accident. The third party insurer rightly referred Mr B back to esure. 
In some calls Mr B says he was put in queues for extended periods, or transferred to other 
departments, and was cut off several times either being disconnected, or terminated at 5pm 
when the lines closed. He says in one call, a call handler shouted at him.
  
Mr B has told us about the impact that this had on his mental health - both being without the 
money for an extended period, and not being able to get consistent or proper advice from 
esure over a period of several months  at least two of which when they held his funds.  
In view of that Im satisfied that the impact on Mr B was significant and that £200 is a fair and 
reasonable figure for the two and a half month delay in returning the money, and esures 
persistent failure to give Mr B correct or helpful information about it. 
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, esure should pay Mr B £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Bs complaint, and directing esure Insurance 
Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels to put things right as above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman