DRN-2840034
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society failed to set up a repayment arrangement 
in respect of money that was wrongly paid in to her account with them. This led to legal 
threats and she had to spend significant time chasing Nationwide before the matter was 
resolved.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs M received a payment of £1,500 into her current account with 
Nationwide. But this amount had been wrongly sent and wasnt due to her.
Nationwide contacted Mrs M in February 2020 to explain what had happened. The originator 
of the payment had asked that the money be returned to them. So, Nationwide asked if Mrs 
M could repay this amount. Mrs M said that she hadnt noticed the amount wrongly credited 
and no longer had the funds available. She agreed to set up a repayment plan of £100 per 
month starting on 27 March 2020. 
Mrs M heard no more from Nationwide until May 2020. She received two or three calls from 
them, asking her to confirm that she was happy for payments of £100 to start. Each time, 
she confirmed to Nationwide that this was acceptable. A new first payment date was then 
agreed of 27 July 2020.
In November 2020, Mrs M received a legal letter threatening action to recover the money 
shed received. They said that she hadnt made any payments and theyd been told that Mrs 
M had refused to pay.
Mrs M called Nationwide on several occasions in an attempt to establish what had gone 
wrong. Each time, Nationwide said that they knew nothing about the situation and couldnt 
find any records. So, Mrs M raised a complaint with Nationwide.
Nationwide investigated Mrs Ms complaint. They said theyd tried to contact her on three 
separate occasions in June 2020, without success. So, theyd replied to the bank claiming 
the refund. They told them that this was a non-recovery situation. Nationwide agreed that the 
service experienced by Mrs M, when she was trying to resolve the situation, fell short and 
she hadnt received a call back when promised. They offered compensation of £125 which 
Mrs M accepted.
Nationwide agreed to make sure that the monthly payment was set up and said that they 
would check it had been successful this time. But they didnt do that, and Mrs M received 
another legal letter threatening action. So, she contacted Nationwide again.
Nationwide spoke with Mrs M in December 2020. They apologised that the monthly 
repayments hadnt been set up as agreed. They said that they hadnt checked this as 
promised. They confirmed that the first payment would be sent on 2 January 2021 and on 
the first day of each month thereafter. In January 2021, Nationwide offered Mrs M further 
compensation of £125 for this part of her complaint.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Nationwides response and offer. So, she decided to refer her 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mrs Ms 
complaint. He agreed that Nationwide had made mistakes. But he also thought that their 
resolution and compensation offer were fair.
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator. She thought that a higher level of compensation 
was appropriate. So, she asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This situation began when Mrs Ms account was wrongly credited in January 2020. Ive seen 
a copy of her account statement from that time. It shows £1,500 being deposited on 13 
January. It also shows that £1,400 of these funds were then transferred out on the same day 
by Mrs M. I cant find anything to suggest that Nationwide were directly responsible for the 
amount being wrongly deposited into Mrs Ms account.
The payment originators bank told Nationwide that the money had been sent to the wrong 
person. They asked Nationwide to contact Mrs M to ask for the money to be returned. So, 
Nationwide contacted Mrs M. She said that she hadnt realised that the money wasnt meant 
for her. She said she was happy to repay it but would need time. So, an agreement was 
reached to pay £100 per month. I think that Nationwides approach to Mrs M was 
appropriate, in the circumstances.
Nationwide told Mrs M that theyd need to go back to the payment originators bank to get 
their agreement to Mrs Ms proposal. This is normal in these situations as it would be the 
payment originators decision whether theyre prepared to accept Mrs Ms proposal. 
Nationwide said they would set up a standing order from Mrs Ms account with the first 
payment on 27 March 2020. But it seems that this wasnt set up. Nationwide said there were 
delays with the payment originators bank replying with their agreement.
In June 2020, Mrs M received various calls from Nationwide. Ive listened to recordings of 
two calls from 1 June 2020.  They asked Mrs M to confirm she was still happy for the 
repayments to begin  she agreed. A new start date of 27 July 2020 was confirmed. So, I 
think it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs M to assume that this would be set up by Nationwide. 
But this didnt happen. 
Nationwide said theyd been told that the payment originator now wanted the funds sent to a 
different account. Because of this, they needed Mrs Ms agreement before they could amend 
the payments. Their file notes show that they called Mrs M on 18 June 2020. Ive listened to 
a recording of this call. Mrs M was at work and asked Nationwide to call back the following 
day (19 June). 
Nationwide called Mrs M, as agreed, but there was no answer. They tried again on two 
further occasions in June 2020. But were unsuccessful contacting Mrs M which meant they 
were unable to set up the standing order. Nationwide told the claiming bank they were 
unsuccessful in obtaining Mrs Ms agreement, which does appear to be the case.
Mrs M said that Nationwide didnt leave any voicemail messages, emails or write to her 
despite having all of her contact details. She feels that they couldve done more in this 
situation. That said, Mrs M had been told in the call of 18 June 2020 that they needed to 
speak to her again and theyd call her back the next day  which they did. Unfortunately, Mrs 
M didnt answer. Nationwide say that they followed their agreed process. Its not the role of 
the FOS to question the processes used by a bank. However, I do agree with Mrs M that 
Nationwide couldve done more here. But I also think its reasonable to think that Mrs M was 
aware that Nationwide wanted to speak to her  theyd told her this on 18 June.
Mrs M says that she received a legal letter on behalf of the payment originator in November 
2020. This gave her 14 days notice before legal action to recover the money owed. Mrs M 
thought everything had been sorted. She was surprised and upset at receiving this letter. I 
do sympathise with Mrs M here. This could be very stressful, and she clearly thought that Nationwide had resolved the situation previously. Its also unfortunate that Mrs M may not 
have checked her account herself to ensure the standing order was being paid.
Mrs M contacted Nationwide by telephone on 12 November 2020. But they couldnt find any 
record of the previous calls or agreement. In all, Ive listened to recordings of five different 
calls between 12 November and 16 November 2020. Mrs M was clearly and understandably 
frustrated. She thought that Nationwide werent being helpful, and she didnt know who she 
needed to speak to. It seems she hadnt been provided with any direct contact details before 
then. So, I completely understand Mrs Ms frustration here. This was made worse by the 
amount of time she was placed on hold during these calls. The call times total in excess of 
two and a half hours of which hold time was around 56 minutes.
During her first call on 12 November 2020, Mrs M asked for a complaint to be raised to help 
resolve matters. On 13 November 2020, the fourth conversation, Mrs M found someone at 
Nationwide who managed to identify her case in their systems. So, Nationwide undertook to 
resolve matters. This resulted in a fifth conversation on 16 November 2020 when Nationwide 
explained what had happened. They also agreed with Mrs M to set up the standing order 
payment as previously discussed. So, Im pleased that Nationwide were, once again, taking 
steps to resolve this outstanding matter. 
There then followed various calls from the Nationwide complaints team. Ive listened to 
recordings of these. Nationwide discussed Mrs Ms experiences and agreed to investigate. 
They also explained why theyd needed to speak to her again in June and their unsuccessful 
calls resulting in their response to the payment originators bank. They agreed to make sure 
that the standing order was set up. They also said that they would check to ensure there 
were no further problems.
Having reviewed Mrs Ms complaint, Nationwide didnt agree that theyd done anything 
wrong in trying to set up the repayment plan. On balance, I agree with Nationwide here. I 
think it wouldve helped matters had they left Mrs M messages or attempted to contact her in 
other ways. But I also think that Nationwides call of 18 June 2020 was sufficient to alert Mrs 
M that they needed to speak to her again. I cant see that she acted upon this. Particularly 
when shed agreed they could call her back the next day and she then said that she didnt 
receive this call.
Nationwide did accept that Mrs M was told she would be called back, after her call to them 
on 12 November 2020. Unfortunately, this didnt happen. They also agreed she had to wait, 
on hold, for lengthy periods during her calls. So, to reflect Mrs Ms poor service experience, 
they offered her compensation of £125. Given the overall circumstances I think that this is a 
fair offer and I see that Mrs M has accepted this.
Despite the conversations with Nationwides complaint team, the standing order was still not 
set up and so the payment wasnt made as agreed. As a result, Mrs M received a further 
legal letter. So, she chased Nationwide again. 
Nationwides complaint team called Mrs M on 23 December 2020 and 13 January 2021. Ive 
listened to recordings of these calls. They apologised for their further mistakes and admitted 
that they hadnt checked that the standing order had been set up. They agreed to contact the 
payment originator to explain that this was Nationwides fault. I think this was important to 
ensure that it was clear that Mrs M wasnt to blame. Nationwide also made sure the standing 
order was set up successfully to start on 2 January 2021. Nationwide then wrote a letter of 
apology to Mrs M dated 11 January and offered a further £125 compensation for this 
mistake. 
Mrs M has explained that throughout the complaint period she was under significant 
personal pressures including health issues and a close family bereavement. I really do 
appreciate that this must have been a very difficult time for her. Its important that in reaching 
my decision, I consider the facts in a balanced and fair way. Taking all of the events into account, I dont believe that Nationwide need to do anything 
more here. I realise that Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision, but I hope she 
appreciates why Ive reached the decision that I have and that Ive fully considered 
everything she and Nationwide have said and provided. 
Nationwide did make mistakes, which theyve acknowledged and apologised for. But I also 
think that its unfortunate that Mrs M didnt check that payments hadnt been made herself, 
as this couldve quickly identified any problem. I think that the compensation offered by 
Nationwide is at a level I believe to be fair and proportionate in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman