DRN-4212613
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about a payment to a third party which was made from his account with 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
On 11 January 2023 Mr W emailed a third party to cancel the subscription he had with them. 
But on 13 January 2023 the third party took a payment from his account under a continuous 
payment authority set up on his debit card.
Mr W contacted Lloyds to dispute the payment, and Lloyds refunded it. On 18 January 2023 
Mr W contacted Lloyds to raise a complaint and asked for any future payments to be 
blocked. But Lloyds didnt respond to Mr W at this time.
On 15 March 2023 Mr W raised a complaint with our service about the disputed transaction. 
He said that to resolve the complaint he wanted payments to the third party to be blocked.
On 9 May 2023 Lloyds issued their final response letter to Mr W. They apologised for the 
delay in responding to him, and confirmed any future payments to the third party had been 
blocked. In their final response letter they also said theyd refunded some separate direct 
debit payments Mr W had disputed to a different third party. They paid Mr W £40 for the 
delay in responding to him.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into things. They thought Lloyds 
had resolved Mr Ws complaint fairly and didnt need to do anything else. Mr W asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, although he didnt include any detail about why 
he disagreed with the investigator. So, his complaints been passed to me for review and a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I want to clarify that this decision concerns the payments made to the third party under the 
subscription that Mr W cancelled on 11 January 2023, which is the complaint he raised with 
Lloyds on 18 January 2023 and with us on 15 March 2023. Lloyds have also mentioned a 
separate dispute with a different third party in their final response letter, but I cant see that 
Mr W has raised a complaint about that dispute, as part of this complaint.
Lloyds have confirmed that theyve placed a block on the third party taking the subscription 
payments from Mr Ws debit card, which is what Mr W asked them to do in the complaint he 
submitted. Ive seen evidence from their systems that the blocks in place. And I can see 
from the statement theyve provided that they also refunded the disputed payment from 13 
January 2023 promptly when it was brought to their attention by Mr W. So, from what Ive 
seen (and in the absence of anything from Mr W to say otherwise) I think theyve done what 
they should have done to resolve the issues Mr W raised with them in his complaint of 18 
January 2023.
Lloyds have accepted they should have responded to Mr W more promptly after he 
contacted them on 18 January 2023. Theyve apologised and paid him £40 to compensate 
him for this, which I think is a fair way to resolve things. I dont think they need to do anything 
else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman