DRN-4214466
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc  trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer 
Finance (Hitachi)  has unfairly turned down his claims under sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).   
What happened
On or around 23 January 2011, Mr P purchased  jointly with his wife  a trial membership 
through a timeshare supplier (who Ill refer to as C). The total cost of the product purchased 
was £3,595. After paying a deposit of £595, the balance of £3,000 was funded by entering 
into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in Mr Ps sole name.
On or around 7 April 2011, Mr P purchased  again, jointly with his wife  a full points 
membership in a timeshare product through C. The total cost of the product purchased was 
£21,197 which, after a trade in allowance of £6,9951, left a balance of £14,202 to pay. Mr P 
funded this and consolidated his previous loan by entering into a new fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi in his sole name, totalling £17,212.
On or around 26 June 2018, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr P made a 
number of claims to Hitachi under the CCA2. The original letter of claim/complaint, along with 
subsequent submissions made by PR, runs to several pages. So, it isnt practical to repeat 
them in full here. But I will provide a summary of the key points below.
The PR allege that Mr P purchased the memberships having relied upon misrepresentations 
made by C and, under section 75 of the CCA (S75), Hitachi is jointly liable for those 
misrepresentations. PR have also suggested that those misrepresentations, amongst other 
things, led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA (S140A).
In particular, the PR suggest that the following statements of misrepresentation were made 
by C as benefits and features associated with the purchase of the timeshare products:
Mr P wasnt told the membership was a timeshare product;
the membership provided access to an exclusive club that normal members of the 
public could not book;
management fees would be low;
Mr Ps children would inherit the membership in the event of death; and
Mr P could refinance this borrowing with a high street bank after 10 months.
The PR also thought theres been various regulatory and legislative breaches together with 
other reasons why the purchases had led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
S140A. In particular: 
Mr P was subjected to a high-pressure sales pitch;
Mr P was not given adequate time to consider and review the purchase 
documentation and does not remember reading them;
1 Consisting of £3,995 for the existing trial membership and a discount of £3,000
2 Whilst the products purchased where in the joint names of Mr P and Mrs P, the loans were in Mr Ps name only. Therefore, 
Mr P is the only eligible claimant under the CCA.
the obligation to pay management charges for the duration was unfair under The 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (the UTCCRs);
alleged aggressive, misleading and prohibited practices and actions breached the 
Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (the CPRs);
the loan interest rate was significantly higher than that provided by other lenders; and
no affordability assessment was undertaken in respect of the loan(s).
Hitachi didnt agree that the products had been misrepresented to Mr P, or that there was 
anything that might lead a court to find that an unfair debtor-creditor relationship existed 
under S140A. 
Mr P was unhappy with Hitachis findings and response. So, the PR referred Mr Ps 
complaint to this service. In doing so, the PR provided their observations and interpretation 
of the sale of timeshare products by C generally. These included their own interpretation and 
explanation of relevant laws and regulations they believe apply here. 
One of our investigators considered all the evidence and facts available. In doing so, they 
thought that Mr Ps claim under S75 had been made too late, as the first purchase had taken 
place more than six years before the claim. Having considered the circumstances of the 
second purchase and loan, our investigator didnt think the product had been 
misrepresented or that there was enough to suggest a court might find that an unfair 
relationship existed under S140A. Our investigator also wasnt able to find anything 
persuasive to suggest that the loan(s) was unaffordable for Mr P.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. While accepting that the events 
complained of took place more than six years before Mr Ps claim, they thought DISP 2.8.2 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Dispute Resolution Sourcebook applied here. In 
particular, they pointed out that Mr P only discovered he had cause to make a 
claim/complain under the CCA after he sought legal advice. And because the claim was 
made within three years of that point, any claim was made in time.
In addition, the PR suggested that Section 32 (S32) of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) applied 
in so far that they allege that C deliberately concealed facts in relation to Mr Ps ability to exit 
his membership. And because of that, the limitation provision within the LA shouldnt apply.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and provide a final decision. In support of Mr Ps complaint, the PR have asked this 
service to consider the contents of a 46-page document produced by Counsel containing 
Generic submissions on behalf of complainants, which relate to complaints about the sale 
of timeshare points-based products supplied by C.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, whilst I ultimately came to 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered certain aspects not previously 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 13 May 2023  giving the PR, 
Mr P and Hitachi the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
P paid for the timeshare products with restricted use fixed sum loan agreements, so it 
isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr P is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr P and Hitachi arising out 
of the credit agreements (taken together with any related agreements). And because 
the products purchased were funded under the credit agreements, theyre deemed to 
be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Ps complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA). This is because the original transactions - the purchases funded by loans 
with Hitachi - took place in early 2011. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the 
LA, but as its relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
The PRs response to our investigators view suggests that Mr Ps claim was made 
within three years of when he first discovered he had cause to complain under DISP 
2.8.2. The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated 
financial products or services and provide rules and guidance about what this service 
is able to consider. This services remit doesnt afford us the powers to make findings 
on legal claims. So, its important to distinguish between the complaint being 
considered here and the legal claim. The complaint referred to this service 
specifically relates to whether I believe Hitachis response to Mr Bs claim was fair 
and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me, rather than 
deciding the legal claim itself. 
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide 
a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal findings 
 that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an 
ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address every single point thats been made in my decision. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreements 
and benefits to Mr P when he bought them. And they believe this could bring cause 
for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue 
of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Mr P had to make a claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase 
contracts and credit agreements. The PR confirm these took place in January and 
April 2011. Thats because this is when they say Mr P lost out having relied upon the 
alleged false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to Hitachi in June 
2018. But as the later of the purchases was completed more than seven years after 
Mrs P first says he lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that his claim falls outside of the time limit permitted in the LA. So, I cant fairly say that Hitachis decision to 
decline any claim under S75 ultimately appears unreasonable here.
As Ive indicated above, I dont believe that the provisions of DISP 2.8.2 apply here. 
The complaint relates to Hitachis response to Mr Ps claim. This service isnt able to 
decide upon the claim itself.
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, 
the trigger point here is slightly different. Any relationship between Mr P and Hitachi 
continues while the finance agreements remains live. So, that relationship only ends 
once each agreement ends, and the borrowing under them has been repaid. Its at 
this point that Mr P has six years in which to make any claim under S140A.
The loan relating to the first purchase was repaid in April 2011. So, as this is more 
than six years before the claim to Hitachi was made, I believe a court is likely to find 
this was made too late under the LA. I understand the second loan was repaid and 
closed around July/August 2016. As this is less than six years before Mr P submitted 
his claim to Hitachi, I think the claim in this respect was made in time. 
Could the limitation period be postponed?
The PR argues that the limitation period should be extended under Section 32 of the 
LA because Mr P wasnt made aware that he could relinquish the timeshare by giving 
28 days notice to do so - and that was concealed from him. 
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has 
been deliberately concealed from him by the defendant [my emphasis]. But neither 
the PR nor Mr P have provided me with anything persuasive to suggest that the C 
deliberately concealed anything about a 28-day notice period. And as I still cant see 
why, given the allegations fuelling each claim, this particular issue prevented Mr P 
from making his claim earlier, my view is that this particular argument by the PR 
doesnt help Mr Ps cause. So, Im not persuaded that theres a reason why time 
might be extended in keeping with the provisions of the LA.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
Misrepresentations
In determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard for any other 
thing done (or not done) by or on behalf of, the creditor3. I think the alleged 
misrepresentations are, therefore, relevant here. Further, even though I think it likely 
they couldnt be considered under S75 due to limitation, I thought they could still be 
considered under S140A4. So, in trying to establish whether I think a court is likely to 
find that an unfair relationship existed, Ive considered the alleged misrepresentations 
relating to the second product purchase in addition to the various other points raised 
by the PR.
Various allegations of misrepresentation have been made although from the 
information available, I cant be certain about what Mr P was specifically told (or not 
told) about the benefits and features of the product he purchased. Limited details 
have been provided about these representations and Mr Ps overall recollections of 
the sales process. Ive not seen any statement (evidentially supported or otherwise) 
from Mr P setting out his direct and specific memories from the time. 
3 Under S140A(1)(c) of the CCA
4 See Scotland & Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 790It was, however, indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I 
havent seen any documentation which supports Mr Ps assertions, like marketing 
material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoed what he says he was 
told. Whether in terms of the timeshare nature of the product, membership 
exclusivity, the ongoing calculation of management fees and charges, ongoing 
membership rights after death or his ability to refinance his loan.
Mr P appears to have signed and dated the Members Declaration on 7 April 2011. 
He also appears to have initialled against each point on that declaration. This 
includes acknowledgements about membership and management charge 
calculations. Further, Mr Ps signature and initials confirm he fully understood the 
purchase agreement and had received and understood all accompanying 
documentation.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty that C did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
Pressured sale
The PR set out several allegations about the sales process suggesting Mr P was 
pressured into completing the purchase, Additionally, I noted that a number of points 
were made in the Counsels Submissions on allegations of pressure. However, these 
were generic points and not specific to Mr Ps recollections of the sale. So, I dont 
think they offer much help in making factual findings of pressure in Mr Ps case. 
If I was to find that Mr P was pressured into purchasing the product, I think its 
possible a court could conclude this created an unfair relationship. However, to make 
that finding, I need to be persuaded it was more likely than not that this was the case. 
Specifically, that Mr P was not given a real choice in purchasing the product and he 
agreed to buy it when he otherwise didnt want to. To do that, I need to be persuaded 
that the sales presentation was an aggressive commercial practice to the extent it 
significantly impaired Mr Ps freedom of choice through the use of harassment, 
coercion, or undue influence. 
Other than to suggest that he felt he was under considerable pressure, Mr P hasnt 
provided any details about what was specifically said and why he felt this way. Its my 
understanding that Mr P had the option, at all times, to walk away from any 
presentation should he wish. I also understand that Mr P had told C that he already 
owned timeshare products with other providers. So, I think it seems likely Mr P was 
interested in this type of product.
Its my understanding that attendance of sales presentations is only compulsory 
where a consumer is partaking of or attending under a complimentary holiday or 
special promotion. So, while I appreciate Mr P believes he was coerced into 
attending further sales presentations. I think its likely he had the option, at all times, 
to leave any such meeting or presentation without agreeing to make a purchase. Ive 
certainly seen no evidence to support any suggestion that he may have been 
prevented from doing so.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
As Ive already mentioned, Mr P appears to have signed and initialled the Members 
declaration on the date of the second sale in which he confirms that he had read and 
fully understood the various agreements and documentation at the time. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to suggest otherwise, I cant reasonably conclude that 
wasnt in fact the case.Furthermore, it appears the documentation made provision for a cooling off period of 
14 days before his loan was drawn and the transaction was completed. So, where 
appropriate, I would expect Mr P to have raised any questions or concerns before the 
loan was drawn and the purchase completed. Theres no suggestion or evidence that 
he did raise any questions or concerns prior to the sale being completed. Or that he 
had any intention of cancelling the agreement.
Ive also seen a copy of the loan documentation relating to the agreement that Mr P 
entered into in April 2011. It clearly details Mr Ps right to withdraw from the loan 
agreement within 14 days without giving any reason. So again, even if I were to find 
that Mr P wasnt given time to consider the documents at the time of the sale - and I 
make no such finding - in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I cant fairly 
conclude that there would have been any cause for making the relationship unfair 
under Section 140A.
Management charges
The PR argues that the associated obligation to pay management charges for the 
duration was unfair under the UTCCRs. Its important to consider how the 
membership operated in practice, including how Mr P could exit the contract beyond 
the initial 14-day cooling off period. 
PR havent provided all the related documentation that governs the points 
membership held by Mr P. But, as Ive already mentioned, this service has seen 
various membership documents. Although not necessarily from the time of the sale, 
they ultimately apply to the membership Mr P holds. In particular, documentation 
from October 2010, and where subsequently updated in December 2015. So, Ive 
considered if these couldve led to unfairness.
Article 125, October 2010 details what happens if a member fails to pay the due 
charge. They include extensive powers for C to make such debts immediately 
payable. C could also remove a members points or membership. I cannot see any 
de minimis debt clause.
In December 2015, article 12.2.7 introduced the concept of membership suspension, 
rather than removal. And the scheme regulations were also amended. I believe this 
meant that members fees didnt continue to accrue during suspension. And based 
upon this, I think its unlikely a court would consider the suspension terms created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
I also note that the courts previously held that a clause within the acquisition 
agreement created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. But its important to 
consider each case on its own merits. The presence of an unfair, or potentially unfair 
term alone wont, in my view, mean a court would automatically deem the 
relationship unfair. And in Mr Ps case, I havent seen (and it hasnt been alleged) 
that terms have been applied or operated unfairly against him.
Under article 7.2, a member could give notice to terminate. When read in conjunction 
with article 7.5, I believe a member wasnt obliged to pay outstanding fees before 
being able to give notice to terminate. Any outstanding fees and charges that would 
still be payable - including in the current year - could be paid after giving termination 
notice. So, I dont believe they would continue to accrue, and membership would, 
therefore, be suspended.
Either way, Mr P has options, including termination or suspension with possible 
reinstatement. The latter could be more favourable. So, I think its unlikely a court 
would say this created an unfair relationship.
5 of Cs articles of associationIve also considered article 12.5. Specifically in relation to liability for interest and 
legal costs. There isnt any suggestion that any of these have been incurred. So, in 
this instance, I cant see that this is likely to have created an unfair relationship either.
Interest rate applied to the loan
The PR believe the interest rate charged under the loan agreement was unfair 
relative to other lenders offerings at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the rate that applied in this case and whether it feels fair in 
all the circumstances. Mrs R accepted the loan, and the loan agreement clearly set 
out the annual rate of interest (and the APR). Theres no evidence that Mr P raised 
any concerns or questions about the rate at the time, or subsequently. And as far as 
Im aware, he was under no obligation to accept the finance offer and could, if he 
desired, seek to fund the purchase through alternative means. So, Im not persuaded 
that the interest rate payable for the loan demonstrates sufficient cause that a court is 
likely to find Mr Ps relationship with Hitachi is unfair
Credit Assessment
The PR allege that C and Hitachi failed to carry out a proper credit assessment. 
There is limited, if any, information about what checks and tests were completed 
when Mr Ps loan was first agreed. Although given the passage of time, I dont find it 
surprising that this information may no longer be readily available. Having said that, 
for me to uphold this aspect of Mr Ps complaint, I would still need to be satisfied that 
the loan was sustainably unaffordable for him and that, had proper checks been 
completed, they wouldve uncovered this.
Its important to highlight that an irresponsible lending complaint could be considered 
under a S140A claim. If the lending were unaffordable, I think its possible a court 
might conclude that gives rise to an unfair relationship. However, neither Mr P nor the 
PR have provided any evidence to support any allegation that the loan was 
unaffordable for him. And with no information about Mr Ps actual position at the time 
and no evidence or suggestion that he struggled to maintain repayments, I cant 
reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for him. And given the loan has now 
been fully repaid, there doesnt appear to be any evidence of loss here either.
Summary
Due to the timing of Mr Ps claim in relation to the original purchases, it is my view 
that a court is likely to find that any claim under S75 was made too late under the 
provision of the LA. Similarly, because the first loan was repaid in April 2011, I think 
any claim under S140A for the purchase of the trial membership was also likely to 
have been made too late.  
Ive considered the S140A claim in respect of the membership purchase in April 
2011. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I think its unlikely a court would find 
that the sales process and agreements are likely to give cause to their being an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A. 
So, in summary, I cant fairly say that Hitachis decision to turn down Mr Ps claim 
was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to apologise for certain typing errors in my provisional decision where I 
may have incorrectly referred to Mr P and Hitachi using incorrect initials. Having corrected this within the wording above, I dont believe this ultimately has any bearing on the 
substance and findings within my decision.
Both Hitachi and the PR have responded following my Provisional Decision. So, it appears 
both parties have received and benefited from a reasonable period to consider what Ive 
said. Hitachi havent added any further comment. But the PR did ask for additional time to 
consider what Id said before responding. Despite my agreement to their request, no further 
comment or evidence has been forthcoming.
In the circumstances, having not received anything that persuades me to vary from the 
findings in my provisional decision, I will not be asking Hitachi to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman