DRN-3188416
The complaint
Mr G complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and the interest and charges 
applied to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr G opened a credit card account with RBS in 1997. This account accrued both interest 
and charges from its opening, which Mr G says was both unfair and unreasonable. So, he 
raised a complaint in 2021.
Mr G was unhappy with the fees and interest hed been charged. He said during the lifetime 
of the account, he had been impacted by several events such as changes to his mental 
health, unemployment between jobs and the ending of a long-term relationship. And he said 
all this impacted his finances, which in turn had affected his credit rating. 
So, Mr G explained the interest and charges RBS applied to his account had added to his 
financial difficulties. And Mr G said this was unfair. So, to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience this caused, Mr G wanted RBS to review the interest and charges applied at 
the time and compensate him accordingly.
RBS responded and didnt agree. They said theyd charged interest correctly, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. So, they didnt offer to do anything more. Mr G 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, RBS explained they didnt give us consent to look 
into any interest and charges applied before 11 May 2015, six years before Mr G referred his 
complaint to us. An Ombudsman considered this and confirmed our service was only able to 
consider the interest and charges applied after this date.
Our investigator looked into the complaint on this basis and didnt uphold it. She explained 
no late payment or over limit charges were applied to Mr Gs account after this time. And she 
was satisfied the interest RBS applied to the account fell in line with its terms and conditions. 
She also said the way Mr G managed his account didnt suggest to RBS he was struggling 
financially. As RBS werent aware of Mr Gs disabilities at this point, she said RBS had acted 
fairly based on the information available to them. So, she said RBS didnt need to do 
anything more. 
Mr G didnt agree. He explained another lender had agreed for our service to look into 
interest and charges applied more than six years ago. So, he wanted RBS to do the same. 
And he said our investigator hadnt considered his disabilities, and how they impacted the 
way he managed his account, fairly when reaching her conclusion. He explained our 
investigator had investigated the complaint based on what an average person does and he 
said this didnt apply to him. So, he wanted RBS to compensate him for the upset and 
inconvenience hed been caused. As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to make it clear exactly what Ive been 
able to consider. Ive seen our service has already decided were only able to consider the 
interest and charges applied to Mr Gs account after 11 May 2015. So, I wont be addressing 
any comments Mr G has made about this and will focus solely on the interest and charges 
applied after this date.
And I also I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I understand Mr G 
has experienced several significant life events during the lifetime of his credit card account. 
And I recognise the impact these would likely have had on his finances at the time. I also 
recognise Mr G has disabilities which is likely to have made it more difficult for him to 
understand, and improve, the financial situation he was in.
But for me to agree RBS have done something wrong, and so should compensate Mr G for 
this, Id need to be satisfied theyve made an error when applying interest and charges to his 
account. So, Id need to see evidence that shows the way they applied the interest and 
charged failed to fall in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Or, if their actions 
did fall in line with these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And it wasnt on this occasion.
Ive seen Mr Gs statements from May 2015. And I can see no charges, such as over limit or 
late payment fees, were applied to Mr Gs account. So, Ive focused solely on the interest Mr 
G had been charged.
Mr G has said hes paid too much in interest. But Ive seen RBS terms and conditions which 
say:
5 Calculation of interest
(a) Interest is charged on purchases, advances, Money Transfers and Balance
Transfers from the date the transaction is applied to the account until paid.
(b) Interest accrues on fees and charges, except annual fees. This interest accrues at
the Purchase Rate and is charged from the date of application to the account until
paid 
Having reviewed Mr Gs statements, Im satisfied RBS acted within these terms and 
conditions when applying interest to the account. And by opening the account, Mr G agreed 
to be bound by these. So, I cant say RBS have done anything wrong.
Mr G has also explained, due to his financial circumstances, he was only able to pay the 
minimum payment on the card for an extended period of time. And he was unable to pay 
other commitments because of this. So, Mr G has said RBS shouldve realised he was in 
financial difficulty and reviewed the affordability of his credit limit. 
But I can see Mr Gs balance never exceeded his credit limit. And he paid his minimum 
payment each month during the six-year period Ive been able to consider. So, these statements didnt show any information to RBS that would suggest the card, and its credit 
limit, was unaffordable. A customer is entitled to repay their account in any way they see fit, 
so Mr G only making his minimum payment each month doesnt mean RBS shouldve 
realised he was struggling financially. And so, I wouldnt expect RBS to review the limit, or 
change it.
And Ive seen in the monthly statements sent to Mr G which state:
Pay less interest
Making only the minimum payment each month is the most expensive way to repay. If
you continue to make payments to your card in this way, it will cost you more and take
you longer to repay your balance. To keep your interest charges to a minimum, we
would encourage you to pay as much of your balance off as you can afford each month.
So, RBS gave Mr G reasonable notice of how his finances were likely to be impacted if he 
only made the minimum payment to the account each month. And this is what Id expect 
them to do. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
I recognise Mr G has explained due to his disabilities, he didnt read or take notice of many, 
if not all, of the statements sent to him by RBS. But Ive seen no evidence to show RBS were 
made aware of Mr Gs disabilities during this time. So, RBS werent given the opportunity to 
make reasonable adjustments to the way they communicated with Mr G to take these 
disabilities into account. And even so, RBS arent responsible for whether a customer 
chooses to read the statements theyre provided as they would have no way of knowing 
whether a customer had done so. Because of this, I cant say RBS have done anything 
wrong and they dont need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. I recognise Mr G has encountered 
difficult times both emotionally and financially during the lifetime of the account. And I 
appreciate why this wouldve been made more difficult to process, due to the disabilities he 
has. But RBS arent responsible for, and werent aware of, this and so they havent done 
anything wrong on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman