DRN-3901420
The complaint
Mr W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate affordability checks before it granted him loans.
What happened
Mr W was advanced three instalment loans by MoneyBoat and a summary of his borrowing 
can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £300.00 7 Nov 2018 15 Jan 2019 3 £126.20
2 £400.00 31 Jan 2019 16 May 2019 4 £143
3 £500.00 20 May 2019 15 Oct 2019 4 £192.11
Based on the statement of account provided by MoneyBoat, it seems Mr W had some 
problems repaying his final loan but its been paid off now. 
Following Mr Ws complaint MoneyBoat wrote to him with its final response letter (FRL), 
outlining the checks it had carried out before these loans were approved and it considered 
these checks to be proportionate. The checks also showed these loans were affordable for 
Mr W as he earned a significant monthly wage of around £3,800 to £4,000 a month after tax. 
MoneyBoat didnt uphold his complaint, so he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator considered the complaint and thought it should be partly upheld. After 
pointing out that in her view MoneyBoat had carried out proportionate checks and not done 
anything wrong in relation to loans 1 and 2. 
Our adjudicator thought loan 3 should be upheld because she could see in the credit check 
results MoneyBoat received that Mr Ws use of other lenders had increased a lot since he 
had started borrowing in November 2018.
Mr W has not specifically said that he agreed with the outcome, but hes not sent to us a 
response in which he objects to it. MoneyBoat has not responded. So, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve considered several different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period (reflecting the 
risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
As I said earlier, I dont consider that the complaint about loans 1 and 2 requires resolution 
as Mr W appears to have agreed with our adjudicators outcome. This decision will focus on 
loan 3, because this is the loan the adjudicator recommended be upheld. 
Reviewing the information that Mr W gave to MoneyBoat about his income and his 
expenditure I can see why MoneyBoat considered that he was able to afford these loans 
relatively easily as his disposable income for loan 3 was, according to the MoneyBoat 
calculations, around £1,900 each month.
However, reviewing account notes I have seen that MoneyBoat had to chase Mr W for 
payment twice for loan 2 in April and May 2019 and in May 2019  just before loan 3 was 
approved  it had asked to see his bank statements. It specifically asked for 30 days of 
transactions. 
I have compared the credit search results MoneyBoat obtained before loan 1 was approved 
and the credit search results before loan 3 was approved. There was a marked difference in that in the space of a few months Mr W had taken seven new accounts, by May 2019 he had 
15 active accounts which was many more than before loan 1. And he had more debt (over 
and above the two mortgages) and had demonstrated many more search records. 
This information together with the concerning repayment history for loan 2 suggests to me 
that before lending to Mr W again MoneyBoat ought to have found out more about Mr Ws 
constant need for additional credit. It had already asked for copy bank statements on 
20 May 2019 and the account note I can see shows that this information request was 
marked as received and accepted on the same day which suggests that Mr W sent to 
MoneyBoat what it was asking for. So, I would have expected it to have used those before 
approving loan 3 in May 2019. 
And I have reviewed the bank statements that Mr W likely sent to MoneyBoat in May 2019 
as he has sent to us copies of his bank statements for the same period. Despite it being a 
joint account, it was clear when cross-referencing the bank statement transactions with the 
credit file information that Mr W had two high cost instalment lender loans, at least one 
payday lender, two other high cost credit loans outstanding as the repayment transactions 
show on the statements. And there was a history and ongoing payments for three sets of 
debt collector payments. 
So, I am persuaded that despite the high income Mr W was on, his outgoings were high and 
he had several other high cost and/or payday loan lender accounts before loan 3 with 
MoneyBoat was approved. I dont think it should have approved loan 3 for Mr W. 
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about loan 3. 
 
Putting things right 
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan three to Mr W, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr W the third of the three loans. My understanding is that 
the loans have been paid off. 
A. refund all interest and charges to Mr W on loan 3B. pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
C. remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Ws credit file; 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for Mr W as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman