DRN-3762033
The complaint
Mr W complains that Cater Allen Limited (CAL) closed his Term Deposit Account (TDA) early 
and says CALs handling of the closure process was poor.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that CAL closed his TDA early without his agreement, so he lost out on nearly 
two years of interest. He says that the reasons CAL gave for closing the account were 
inconsistent and he found it practically difficult to complete the closure process, causing him 
to incur distress and inconvenience and expenses.
CAL says that it closed the TDA for commercial reasons, and it has offered £150 to Mr W as 
a gesture of goodwill.
CAL was entitled to close the TDA at any time for commercial reasons. The terms and 
conditions of the TDA allowed CAL to close the account provided it gave Mr W two months 
notice. Both parties agree that CAL did give Mr W two months notice, so CAL didnt do 
anything wrong in this respect.
I acknowledge that Mr W found the closure process difficult due to his location and 
circumstances and some poor communication from CAL.
But in my view, this services approach to such cases would not award any more than the 
£150 that CAL has offered for any distress, inconvenience, or expenses he incurred.
So, on the basis that CAL pays Mr W the amount it has offered him, I would not uphold his 
complaint to receive any more.
My final decision
Cater Allen Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Cater Allen Limited should pay Mr W £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman