DRN-3537834
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy because Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) charged her interest on 
a loan she paid off early. 
What happened
Miss O took out a loan with Halifax and paid it back via an early settlement 12 days later. 
Halifax charged Miss O £49.20 in interest for the 12 days she had use of the money.
However, Miss O says that Halifax shouldnt charge her any interest. She says that on the 
app she used to take out the loan it says, you can pay off your loan early, but we may 
charge up to 58 days interest. Miss O says that this sentence implies that interest may be 
applied on early settlement, not that it will be applied. Miss O says that this isnt clear and is 
misleading for a consumer.
Halifax says the wording doesnt imply there is any leeway in the application of this interest 
charge. It says Miss O has misinterpreted this sentence and that as she had the use of the 
loan amount for 12 days, so interest on the loan amount is due when an early settlement is 
made.
Miss O remained unsatisfied, so she brought a complaint to this service. An investigator 
reviewed the file and said that Halifax had applied the interest charge correctly and hadnt 
done anything wrong. 
However, Miss O doesnt agree, and shes asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
I acknowledge and appreciate the argument that Miss O has made. But I dont agree with 
how Miss O has interpreted the sentence on the screen shot she has sent to us. The 
sentence says, you can pay off your loan early, but we may charge up to 58 days interest. 
Miss O has interpreted this to mean that Halifax may or may not charge interest. She 
feels this sentence means its at Halifaxs discretion to charge interest. 
But this is not what the may in the sentence means. When you pay off a credit agreement 
early, under the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 the total amount you 
pay is reduced. The consumer is not expected to repay the total loan amount plus the total 
interest repayments. A rebate of the interest is calculated using a formula set out in the 
regulations. And in the case of this specific loan, the regulations allow Halifax to charge 
interest for up to 58 days only in the case of an early settlement. 
This is supported in the fixed sum loan agreement. It says:
You can pay off your loan in full at any time by giving us notice. 
 You must pay the full amount you owe us, plus the interest you agreed to pay us for the 
remaining term of the loan. This means you must pay us the total amount of your remaining 
repayments under the agreement, less a rebate that we will apply.
 This rebate is calculated in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004.
 Because of the rebate we will only charge you up to 58 days' worth of interest on the 
outstanding balance because we will calculate the settlement amount using a settlement 
date that is 58 days after the date of the settlement notice.
I understand why Miss O has interpreted this sentence the way she has. But I think Miss O 
has misinterpreted the sentence which has led her to think Halifax will apply discretion about  
whether it may or may not charge interest. But this sentence doesnt imply any such leeway. 
This sentence is clearly setting out the number of days within which Halifax is allowed to 
charge interest, once an early settlement is made under the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. 
Because if this I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong by charging 12 days interest.  
As such Im not upholding this complaint and I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman