DRN-3030946
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mrs M says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because Amex told 
us that the commission for Mrs Ms PPI was less than 50% of what she paid, Amex didnt 
need to pay back any of the commission she paid for the PPI.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Amex didnt need to tell Mrs M 
about the commission it received - so Amex doesnt need to pay back any of the commission 
Mrs M paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Amex made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Amex has provided a recording of the sales call from 2009 
when Mrs M took out PPI. And I have listened to the call carefully. Having done so I note 
during the call the representative described PPI as optional; they said the PPI could be 
cancelled at any time; and they explicitly asked for Mrs Ms agreement before it was 
added to her account.
Im mindful too that Mrs M took out her credit card around five years prior to taking out 
PPI  so I dont think she would have been under the impression that she had to have 
PPI at this stage.
Overall Im satisfied the evidence shows that Mrs M chose to take out PPI and she did so 
without undue pressure.
Amex didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs M enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
While Amex gave Mrs M some clear information about the policy, it didnt do everything 
as it should have. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs M  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover such as those for unusual employment circumstances or existing 
medical conditions. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was 
buying from the information she was given. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems  
something the representative highlighted during the phone call. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So given this and because the policy had the potential to clear the 
outstanding balance in full on month seven of a continuous claim, it seems like it would 
have been useful for Mrs M if something went wrong. So I dont think Mrs M would have 
declined the cover had Amex done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Amex should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Amex doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Amex didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Amex doesnt need to do pay back any of the commission Mrs M paid. My reasons are set 
out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Amex failed to tell Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, Amex has told us that the commission for Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Amex has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Ms case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Amex needed to tell Mrs M about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Amex treated Mrs M unfairly. 
This means Amex doesnt need to pay Mrs M back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
My decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that American Express Services Europe Limited didnt need to 
disclose the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs 
M paid for the PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman