DRN-3568121
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd wont refund the payment she made to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mrs B authorised the payment. NewDay are expected to act on 
her authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So the starting position, 
even if Mrs B was tricked into making the payment, is that shes liable for it. 
That said, Im conscious NewDays anti-fraud system did flag the payment. Theyve 
explained they identified it as unusual so sought, and received, confirmation from 
Mrs B that it was actually her requesting the payment. Im satisfied this was a 
proportionate response to the risk they identified  which was essentially that an 
unauthorised person may have requested the payment. It wasnt particularly high and 
was seemingly made via a legitimate payment processor. So I dont think NewDay 
had cause for further concern about the payment. I therefore consider it reasonable 
that, once they received confirmation from Mrs B, they processed the payment. 
By the time Mrs B called NewDay to report that she thought shed been scammed, 
theyd already processed the payment on their end. I understand it may still have 
showed as pending, but that would have been while waiting for the merchant to 
collect it. NewDay cant cancel the payment at that point. So overall, I dont think 
theyre at fault for not preventing Mrs Bs loss.
As this was a card payment, Ive considered if there were grounds for Mrs B to 
recover her payment through a chargeback claim. This is a voluntary scheme run by 
the card provider, Mastercard. NewDay arent obliged to raise a chargeback claim, 
and I wouldnt reasonably expect them to unless the consumer has sufficient 
evidence to show they likely have a valid claim in line with Mastercards rules. 
I understand Mrs Bs allegation is that the merchant claimed to offer some form of 
investment  but was actually a scam. MasterCard has been clear that chargeback 
rights for investment disputes are restricted even if the activity was illegal. So, even if 
the merchant was running a scam as alleged, thats not something the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme provides a dispute resolution process for. Im therefore not 
persuaded NewDay ought to have raised a chargeback claim for this payment. 
Ive also considered whether NewDay are liable under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s75)  which gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim against 
a creditor for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation by a supplier.
I agree with the investigator that, even though the payment may have been made via 
a payment processor, that doesnt necessarily mean the chain between the debtor 
(Mrs B), creditor (NewDay), and supplier (the merchant who Mrs B understood she 
was paying), as required for a s75 claim, is broken. Regardless, Im not persuaded 
Mrs B has done enough to demonstrate breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Theres very little information about what the payment was actually for  and there 
are some discrepancies between what weve been told about this. When Mrs B 
spoke to NewDay, she said it related to cryptocurrency and making money on the 
markets. She also mentioned buying and selling shares. Her representative says it 
was for investment advice. I havent seen any supporting evidence confirming what 
the payment was for  or what was meant to happen afterwards. 
On balance, theres simply not enough clear evidence to lead me to safely conclude 
that the merchant misrepresented themselves to induce Mrs B to make the payment 
 or that they breached the contract. Thats because its unclear what was 
agreed/promised. The fact the merchant wasnt regulated by the FCA isnt enough to 
demonstrate a specific breach of contract, nor a specific misrepresentation which 
induced Mrs B into the payment. Id point out that, based on Mrs Bs initially account, 
its unclear the merchant would need to be FCA regulated to offer such services. 
Likewise, loss in itself isnt enough for the claim to succeed  investments, by their 
nature, involve risk of loss. In the circumstances, I dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to hold NewDay liable under a s75 claim. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs B. But for the reasons given above, Im not 
persuaded NewDay are fairly liable for this payment or the resultant loss/impact it had. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman