DRN-3528883
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) regarding 
his overdraft facility. 
What happened
Mr H held an account with HSBC. On the 6 November 2021 he received a letter which 
outlined the details of his overdraft. It stated that his arranged overdraft limit was £1,000 but 
then went on to say his account had an interest free overdraft amount of £2,000. Following 
the letter Mr H went on to spend over his arranged overdraft limit of £1,000 and received a 
number of calls about this. 
Mr H complained to HSBC that its letter was confusing and led him to believe he had an 
overdraft limit higher than what was agreed and that he was being harassed by phone calls 
from its collections team. HSBC said it hadnt identified any bank error with the letter or 
overdraft limit but acknowledged his concern about the service he had received over the 
phone in that hed been given conflicting information regarding whether a complaint had 
been raised and paid Mr H £50 compensation for this.
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC had caused 
some confusion with its correspondence but didnt think it had caused major detriment and 
thought the £50 compensation was a fair way to settle the complaint. Mr H disagreed and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 May 2022. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I was proposing to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties have responded but neither HSBC or Mr H have added any further 
information that wasnt already considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
My role is to look at the problems Mr H has experienced and see if HSBC has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr H back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
HSBC has already acknowledged that its service wasnt as good as it shouldve been and 
awarded Mr H £50 compensation. But having looked at the letter of the 6 November and 
listened to the call recordings provided I dont think this is enough.
The letter in question does say Your current arranged overdraft limit is £1,000. But directly 
under this it says Your account has an interest free overdraft amount of £2,000. And based 
on this Mr H believed his limit was more than the arranged limit of £1,000 and went over his 
limit. HSBC say that an application would be needed to be completed in order for it to offer a 
limit of £2,000. But I cant see that it says this on the letter. Indeed, even HSBCs own 
advisors were confused by the letter in the call recording I listened to about what was 
happening with Mr Hs account and overdraft limit. I accept that Mr H couldve called HSBC 
up to confirm his overdraft limit  but I dont think he should have to, the information I expect 
HSBC to give should be clear and not misleading. So I think its likely Mr H was mis-lead by 
the wording of HSBCs letter which I think led to Mr H spending over his limit resulting in 
numerous calls from HSBCs collections department and Mr H raising his complaint. 
HSBC says it only called Mr H three times in January, but Mr H has provided screen shots of 
the calls he received from HSBC  and while I acknowledge many might have been missed 
calls  the amount of calls shown on his log are much in excess of this. I can see why this 
may have made Mr H feel harassed and anxious and caused undue stress.
On listening to another call between Mr H and HSBC there is further confusion on whether 
Mr Hs complaint was open or closed and it seems to me an inability to give Mr H a straight 
forward answer on anything. 
So overall and having considered everything although HSBC has already paid Mr H £50 
compensation I dont think this is enough and I am currently minded to direct HSBC to pay a 
further £100 to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused by the conflicting information 
Mr H was given.
As neither party has provided any further information not already considered, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Hs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and 
direct it pay a further £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman