DRN-1779568
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about text alerts they are receiving from Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc telling them that they are going into an arranged overdraft.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say they started receiving text alerts from Royal Bank of Scotland saying they 
had, or were about to, go into their arranged overdraft. They complained to Royal Bank of 
Scotland that the text alerts are inaccurate because their current account is linked to a 
savings account so an auto-transfer takes place each day, if necessary, and keeps the 
current account at zero balance.
 
Royal Bank of Scotland responded to say that Mr and Mrs Ss account showed that they 
were set up for text alerts if their account was going into arranged or unarranged overdraft. 
They explained the text alerts are sent first thing in the morning. They said an auto-transfer 
was set up between the two accounts and when a sweep is done at close of business, this 
balances their account. They said Mr and Mrs S declined the option to have the alerts turned 
off and this was the only way to avoid unnecessary alerts. Royal Bank of Scotland didnt 
uphold this complaint. They also said that the use of auto-transfers is no longer a service 
which they offer to customers, but Mr and Mrs S wont be affected as theirs was set up 
before Royal Bank of Scotland made the changes. 
Mr S said he didnt agree with Royal Bank of Scotlands view on the text alert issue. He 
explained that he couldnt see why, when the two accounts are linked, the system isnt using 
the balance in his two accounts to indicate when he has gone into the arranged overdraft. 
Royal Bank of Scotland said they had carried out a separate review but still stand by their 
original decision in relation to the complaint. 
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs S. Royal Bank of Scotland told us that the 
text alert service being offered, and in the format the system is set up, will be very useful for 
customers who have concerns about going into overdraft as the text alert early in the day 
allows them an opportunity to make any payments and avoid any charges. They also said 
that the text alerts are sent in the morning but the auto-transfer doesnt credit until the 
afternoon and these two systems arent able to be linked. They also said that Mr and Mrs S 
do have the option of turning off the text alerts. 
   
Our investigator felt that Royal Bank of Scotland had done all they could do and their 
response was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. 
Mr and Mrs S have two accounts linked, the savings account feeds into the current account 
to ensure the balance doesnt fall below zero. They use an auto-transfer service provided by 
Royal Bank of Scotland to manage this. The problem arises when they receive a text alert 
telling them theyre about to go into their arranged overdraft. For them, this becomes an 
unnecessary alert because the auto-transfer service should avoid them going into the 
arranged overdraft.
 
I can see why the text alert service will be of benefit to customers. It allows them to receive 
an alert and then gives them time to make any payments to avoid charges. Mr and Mrs S 
feel its a useful service and they want to use it, but they dont want to receive text alerts 
unnecessarily and which contain inaccurate information. They say the Royal Bank of 
Scotland mobile app which they also use works out the total available funds based on both 
linked accounts and the overdraft facility. They feel the text alert system should be set up to 
work in the same way.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S want the text alert system to be amended so they are being 
provided with accurate information. While we cant tell Royal Bank of Scotland how to 
operate the system, I can see that they have offered Mr and Mrs S the option of turning off 
the text alerts to avoid receiving them. I understand they dont want to do this and I 
understand their reasons for not wanting to, but this does mean they will continue to receive 
the text alerts. That doesnt mean there is an error with the text alert service, its been set up 
to let customers know when their balance is likely to go overdrawn, and that is exactly what 
its doing. It also doesnt mean that Royal Bank of Scotland have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
I do understand why receiving the text alerts cause Mr and Mrs S concern but they do have 
the mobile app if they want any reassurance on the position. That said, I agree that 
information from a service provider should always be accurate but, in this case, the text alert 
service is doing what it was set up to do and, although it does unfortunately mean Mr and 
Mrs S are receiving the alerts unnecessarily, thats not a reason for me to say the Royal 
Bank of Scotland should change the way it alerts customers to the position on their 
accounts. The text alerts are automated and the system operated as it was designed to. So, 
I can't say that Royal Bank of Scotland have done anything wrong. A lot of customers benefit 
from these alerts and I don't think there's anything particularly wrong with them. But I do 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs S, given they were worried about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman