DRN-3722155
The complaint
Mr C complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has unfairly 
declined a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his policy to pursue legal action for breach of contract against a 
third-party company who hed purchase a property from. DAS instructed its panel firm of 
solicitors, who Ill refer to as D.
D undertook a legal assessment of the claim and determined that it didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success  which is a requirement for cover under the policy. Based on this 
advice, DAS declined the claim.
As Mr C didnt agree, D reconsidered the case but their opinion on prospects remained 
unchanged. In addition, D has said that even if the claim has reasonable prospects of 
establishing a breach of contract, the remedy would be to rectify / alter the registered title. 
They say rectification claims isnt something that the policy would cover.
Mr C says his policy covers him for breach of contract claims arising from the purchase of 
his principal home  which this is. He raised a complaint that his claim had been incorrectly 
and unfairly declined, which he brought to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold it; 
he was satisfied DAS had dealt with the claim in accordance with the policy terms.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and I issued the following provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy says that it will cover:
your legal rights in a contractual dispute or for misrepresentation arising from an 
agreement which you have entered into for the buying or selling of your principal 
home.
It further says:
we agree to provide the insurance in this section, subject to the terms, conditions, 
exclusions and limitations set out in this section, provided that:
reasonable prospects exist for the duration of the claim;
any legal proceedings will be dealt with by a court, or other body, which we 
agree to.
Its not in dispute that Mr Cs claim falls within the section of cover for a contractual dispute 
over the agreement to buy his principal home. Whats disputed is whether or not it meets the 
remaining policy requirements.
Reasonable prospects
Its a requirement for cover under the policy that a claim must have reasonable prospects of 
success which are defined as having at least 51% chance of winning. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, DAS has obtained a legal opinion from its panel solicitors who  on two 
occasions  have assessed the claim as having less than 51% prospects. Im satisfied the 
opinions are properly written and well-reasoned, and theyve been obtained from a suitably 
qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything to persuade me that DAS couldnt rely on it. 
Rather, its up to Mr C to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own 
cost, if he wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then DAS should 
reconsider the claim.
Im aware that Mr Cs policy says that if the advice is supportive, DAS will reimburse the cost 
of it provided that DAS approved the expert and their fees in advance. I understand Mr C is 
in the process of seeking this approval from DAS and has hit some barriers. DAS should co-
operate, and if Mr C feels it isnt then he is entitled to raise a new complaint which he is 
welcome to bring back to our service at the appropriate time.
Remedy
D have highlighted that there might be a further problem with Mr Cs claim even if he can 
evidence it has reasonable prospects. Specifically, that there is no cover to rectify / alter the 
registered title.
I think its fair for D to share what they believe to be a possible further barrier to cover to help 
Mr C decide if he wishes to incur the costs of obtaining his own legal opinion. But I cant pre-
emptively make a decision with regard to the handling of a claim. The current position is that 
the claim has been declined due to not meeting the requirement for prospects. And Im 
intending to conclude that is fair.
If Mr C provides further evidence and the prospects issue is resolved, then DAS would need 
to make a new decision on the claim. And in a similar way to what Ive mentioned above, if 
Mr C is unhappy with a further decision that DAS take, he may well be able to bring that to 
our service.
But as all this relates to a decision DAS havent yet taken (as the prospects issue isnt in Mr 
Cs favour on the evidence so far), this isnt something Im going to make a finding on.Responses to my provisional decision
DAS accepted my provisional decision, but Mr C didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint as Im satisfied the decision 
to decline the claim for insufficient prospects of success was in line with the policy terms and 
it was made fairly on the evidence available.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman