DRN-4363171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about their property insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) regarding a subsidence claim they made in 2016. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had noted some crack damage at their home. Their neighbour had a recent 
subsidence diagnosis, so they made a claim to LV in October 2016. LV accepted the claim, 
a loss adjuster attended, various technical reports were completed and, during 2017 drains 
were repaired. Cracking between an extension and the main part of the home was found, 
along with cracks within the extension itself and sloping floors and windowsills. But by the 
start of 2023 LV was only just looking at starting repairs.
The repair schedule did not include anything to resolve the overall level of the floors in the 
extension. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy about this. As well as about how the claim had 
progressed to that point. They said LV had not engaged with the claim at all and it had not 
substantially progressed it between 2016 and 2023. Regarding the extension, they noted LV 
was saying the floor level was a historic issue and that it had determined this by reference to 
level monitoring. But they said the monitoring had only taken place in 2021. So they didnt 
think that could reasonably support an argument of historic movement.
Our Investigator didnt think LV had shown the damage in the extension was historic. He felt 
it should be repaired as part of the claim. He also thought £2,000 compensation should be 
paid for distress and inconvenience.
LV responded, agreeing to the compensation. It said its loss adjuster had accepted that the 
damage in the extension was not historic and that it needed resolving as part of this claim.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy. They noted the change in view regarding the extension, but felt 
it had taken too long for LV to decide this. They felt the compensation was too little, equating 
to less than a pound a day for the term of the claim.
The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to say that this claim has gone on for longer than it should have done. I think 
LV accepts that is the case. I know Mr and Mrs C are upset that LV hasnt been managing 
things. And I should explain that LV, as do many insurers, delegates responsibility for 
handling a claim like this to loss adjusters. But if the loss adjusters fail to manage the claim  
that is LVs failure.  
Lack of progress and compensation
It is fair to say that subsidence claims can be some of the longest to resolve. And they will 
often require a lot of input from policyholders to attend meetings or allow access for 
investigations. Thats because often in subsidence claims, before repairs can be done, an 
insurer has to know what caused the problem in the first place in order to ensure the cause 
has been mitigated. Otherwise long-lasting repairs cant be undertaken. Sometimes it is the 
monitoring which takes time, or sometimes remediating the cause. Sometimes all stages of a 
subsidence claim can become protracted and delayed for differing reasons. 
From what Ive seen here though there doesnt seem to be any real identifiable, reasonable 
cause for delay. Rather it seems to me that the loss adjusters didnt really seem to deal with 
this claim proactively. Most of the notes Ive seen on file show that reports were being waited 
for, or input from other parties, such as the water authority, was required. Reference is made 
to monitoring at certain times  but no results from those assessments are included in the 
update reports produced to show progress of the claim. And in one instance I see a site visit 
was requested by one department in May but the request was missed. The visit was finally 
organised in November. 
There was poor work  in 2019 it was found the repairs undertaken by LVs contractor in 
2017 had been poor. So some re-work was required. That was clearly a cause for frustration 
and required some significant extra input from Mr and Mrs C. Seemingly between 2017 and 
2019 a scope for repairs was being compiled and reviewed, with some monitoring occurring. 
So I dont think the poor repairs held the claim up by two years. But clearly, in 2019, that 
work still being outstanding impacted the claims progression at that time. With further 
monitoring then being required. It is important in any claim like this for a property to be stable 
before crack repairs begin.
As of 2023 LV was satisfied the property was not moving. Its entitled to rely on the expert 
advice it has received in this respect. And Ive seen the monitoring results undertaken in 
2021 which seem to support that conclusion. How much monitoring is required will differ 
upon the circumstances of each claim, such as the original cause, as well as how and when 
that was remediated. But I note the real concern that existed in April 2023, when 
Mr and Mrs C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, was the repair of the 
extension. They confirmed to us this was the one issue they had with the repair scope.
For the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs C were caused up until April 2023, I think 
£2,000 is fair and reasonable compensation. I think this was always a claim that would have 
taken time to progress to repairs and which would have needed a lot of input from 
Mr and Mrs C. But I do think things became protracted and didnt progress at times as they 
should have done. I can quite see why they became frustrated.
But I bear in mind that whilst having an on-going claim is stressful, their daily lives were not 
impacted, such as by having no kitchen. And whilst they had to attend visits and the like, 
some input from them, as Ive said, would always have been required. Id add that we dont 
award compensation based on a daily rate. And our awards are not designed to punish 
businesses. Im satisfied that £2,000 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.  
I know Mr and Mrs C think they could have done things differently during the last few years if 
the claim had been resolved, perhaps attained work promotions. But I cant be sure any of 
that would most likely have happened. However, Ive taken their frustration about their 
perceived lack of opportunity into account when deciding my compensation award. 
I know Mr and Mrs C have felt tied to staying with LV for their insurance whilst the claim has 
been on-going. So they feel like they havent been able to shop around for better premiums. 
But the reality of having a subsidence claim on their record, even once the claim is closed, it that their ability to shop around will likely be impacted. So Im not persuaded that the delayed 
claim has affected their opportunities in this respect. 
Rear extension
Mr and Mrs C believe the extension had twisted away from the house. They noted the floor 
along the length of the extension dropped at an increasing angle. The loss adjuster, in early 
2023 seemed to think this was historic. So there were no plans to resolve the floor in the 
extension. I agree with Mr and Mrs Cs concern about the logic of the reasoning for that 
decision. It certainly didnt seem to take into account that the evidence being relied upon was 
gathered some five years after the claim began. I think that decision was flawed. But I note 
that whilst our complaint was progressing, a further visit occurred at Mr and Mrs Cs home 
and LV, along with its loss adjuster, has accepted that the level of the extension has been 
affected by the subsidence event claimed for. So it is no longer being argued by LV that the 
floor damage is excluded from the claim on account of it being historic. As I understand it the 
claim is now progressing with new schedules of work being created. So I wont say any more 
about the floor damage and reinstatement at this stage. 
Putting things right
I require LV to:
Pay Mr and Mrs C £2,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Include repair of the floor in the extension into the schedule of work.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman