DRN-3567265
The complaint
Miss G has complained about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with things after she was the 
victim of fraud.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In February 2021, fraudsters took out an HSBC loan in Miss Gs name and attempted large 
payments from her current account.
Miss G reported the fraud to HSBC, and they blocked her online banking to stop any further 
fraudulent activity. Following this, there were a series of difficulties in getting everything 
sorted out. For example, HSBC accepted that they initially passed Miss G to incorrect teams 
and gave her the wrong next steps.
In February 2022  a year on from the fraud  the payments were refunded, the loan was 
unwound, and HSBC removed any related markers from Miss Gs credit file. HSBC paid 
Miss G £75 compensation, and have offered her a further £75, to bring the total to £150.
However, Miss Gs online banking remains blocked. Shes particularly unhappy about this, 
and says she wants it reinstated. HSBC say Miss G needs to speak to a particular fraud 
team, but she hasnt spoken to them even when they keep trying to call her.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss G and HSBC a provisional decision on 30 May 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
Both sides agree that HSBC got some things wrong here. And they even repeated some of 
the same mistakes more than once. This would have been particularly upsetting for Miss G 
given the context that shed been the victim of a crime.
Further, I dont think its fair for Miss G that it took a whole year for HSBC to refund the fraud 
and unwind the loan. In the meantime, she was left out of pocket and with incorrect markers 
on her credit file. So Miss G was subject to considerable distress and worry, and was 
inconvenienced over a significant period.
With that in mind, and bearing in mind our guidelines about compensation awards, I think 
that £350 total compensation would be fair to put things right. I understand that HSBC have 
already paid Miss G £75, in which case theyd need to pay her a further £275 to bring the 
total to £350.
When it comes to the online banking, I do understand Miss Gs frustration at this still being 
blocked well over a year on.
With that said, I can see that from at least 31 March 2021 onwards, HSBC repeatedly gave 
Miss G clear instructions for how to get her online banking unblocked. This will involve her 
speaking to a particular fraud team on the phone, while being ready to log in online so they 
can walk her through it. HSBC has given Miss G that teams details multiple times, as has 
our service. But as far as I can see, it looks like Miss G only spoke to them once and hung 
up before they could help her. Otherwise, it doesnt look like Miss G has rung that particular 
team on any other occasion. And the team have tried calling Miss G quite a number of times, 
on the same number she gave our service, but havent got through. I can see they left 
Miss G voicemail messages, too.
So I think HSBC have made fair efforts to help Miss G access her online banking. If the 
online banking really is that important to Miss G, then Im afraid its difficult to see why she 
hasnt just phoned the team and stayed on the line so they can help her. I can only suggest 
that she does that now, using the details our investigator gave her. Ill put the teams details 
on the cover letter for this provisional decision, too.
I will also explain that in the meantime, Miss G does not need to go to branch to check her 
balance  she can do that at cash machines, too.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
27 June 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, HSBC didnt add anything further.
Miss G explained that she is in the process of trying to reactivate her online banking. She 
reiterated her disappointment at how HSBC have handled things for her. I can understand 
her frustration with HSBC, and I think the additional compensation awarded is fair to put their 
mistakes right. As before, I would encourage Miss G to ring the number we provided when 
shes ready to log in online, as that team should be able to get things reinstated for her.
Otherwise, neither side sent me any materially new evidence or arguments. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay her a further £275 
compensation, to bring the total to £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman