DRN-3401634
The complaint
Mr M complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his U account and have returned 
money paid into the account back to source. Mr M wants the money returned to him. 
The U account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions.
What happened
In June 2020, U account blocked Mr Ms account while it carried out a review. Following its 
review U account decided to return the funds in the account to source. 
Mr M complained to our service. He said being without the money had made it difficult to 
make ends meet and pay his rent. Hes explained that the money paid into his account was 
his benefit payments. And since the money had been returned, he has been trying to trace 
the funds, but was having trouble locating the money due to the limited amount of 
information U account had provided.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and asked U account to provide him 
with information about what had happened. But U account didnt provide anything. So, he 
upheld Mr Ms complaint because he couldnt say U account had treated Mr M fairly. The 
investigator said U account should return Mr Ms balance to him and pay him £150 
compensation. Mr M was happy with this outcome. U account disagreed and provided us 
with more information.
After reviewing this information, the investigator didnt think U account had acted unfairly 
when it returned the money to source and had done so in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr M disagreed. He said it wasnt fair that U account had sent money that was his back to 
source. And that hes now out of pocket. He also said he had contacted the DWP to try and 
recover the funds but hadnt been successful as he didnt have enough information to 
identify where the money had gone. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that U account has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict 
customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. The terms 
and conditions of Mr Ms account also permit U account to review an account. 
Having looked at all the evidence, including how Mr M was operating his account, I dont 
believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for U account to block Mr Ms account. U 
account has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im 
satisfied that in doing so U account were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
So, whilst I accept,  U accounts actions upset Mr M and caused him inconvenience,  I cant 
say the U account has treated him unfairly when it blocked his account.
I understand that Mr M wants U account to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account in the first place. But U account doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr M the reasons behind the 
account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr M this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so.
U account sent the balance of Mr Ms account back to source. I appreciate Mr M says hes 
entitled to the money that was in his account. But hes not provided any evidence to support 
what hes said.  I also have to weigh this up against the information provided to me by U 
account.  And based on the information Ive seen I agree that this was the right action in the 
circumstances. Im also satisfied that U account were complying with their legal obligations 
when it returned the money to source. So, Im not going to direct U account to return the 
balance of Mr Ms account to him.  
Mr M says he has tried to recover the funds from DWP but hes having difficulty as he has 
very limited information. So, hes said U account hasnt properly returned the funds. U 
account hasnt received any returned funds or notice of any issues from the originator. Given 
U account says it returned Mr Ms funds in 2020 , Id have expected U account to have 
received some notification by now had that not been the case.
In summary, its clearly caused Mr M inconvenience when he wasnt able to use his account. 
So, understandably hes upset. I appreciate it has been a frustrating time for him and he 
says hes out of pocket. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having 
looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I wont be telling U account to 
do anything else to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman