DRN-1587239
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of her car after it 
was written off in an accident. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said after looking at the 
specifications of Mrs Ns vehicle he was satisfied the offer from Advantage (£9,210) was fair 
and in line with the trade guides used by this service. 
Mrs N disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said the value 
of the car on her insurance documentation was £14,380 and she only purchased the policy 
the month before the accident. So, Advantage should make her an offer closer to that figure. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Mrs Ns policy says Advantage will settle the claim by paying her the market value of her car 
at the time of the loss. That sum isnt necessarily the same amount that the car was 
purchased for or the cost of replacing it. The terms and conditions also say the value of her 
car may not necessarily be the value Mrs N declared when taking out this policy. Instead 
industry guides will be used to provide a valuation based upon the condition of her car at the 
time of the loss. 
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use as theyre based on likely 
selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the prices of the 
same make and model of cars across the country. But I believe the valuation offered by 
Advantage sufficiently considers Mrs Ns cars age, mileage and condition. I believe an 
insurers valuation is fair and reasonable if its within the ranges of the various guides we 
use. Although the valuation is towards the lower end of the ranges, I still think this is fair in 
the circumstances.
So, Im not going to ask Advantage to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020
. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman