DRN-3041899
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Santander UK Plcs decision to block a transaction on their 
joint account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a joint account with Santander. They attempted to make a transaction 
from their joint account, after the attempts from the personal accounts had been refused. 
The transaction from the joint account also didnt go through.
Santander explained the transaction was flagged for review and Mr and Mrs H had to 
confirm security questions before Santander could release the account. The account was 
released shortly afterwards.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy that their account had been blocked and decided to close their 
joint account. Mr H telephoned Santander to close the joint account, but as they had Direct 
Debits pending, Santander advised him to wait until the payments had been made. 
Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint to Santander. Santander said that while they understand 
Mr and Mrs H would have found the block on their account frustrating, it is Santanders 
policy to ensure funds are safeguarded at all times. Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to 
our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. He explained that Santander have 
certain legal and regulatory obligations that they have to meet. And thats what Santander 
were doing when reviewing the payment.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said they are complaining about the circumstances 
surrounding the block, rather than the block itself, and the fact Santander placed Mrs H in 
danger by asking her to visit the branch during the pandemic.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important for me to point out that this decision only relates to the joint account 
held by Mr and Mrs H. I recognise they have other complaints with our service surrounding 
the actions on both of their individual personal accounts, but I wont be considering the 
circumstances of those complaints as part of my decision.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H say theyre not complaining about the block itself, only the 
circumstances surrounding it. However, I feel it important to comment on whether 
Santanders actions when blocking the payment were fair. 
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Santander was 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs 
account. 
Mr and Mrs H attempted to make a large transaction from their account, so Id expect this to 
flag with Santander. Banks are required to ensure their customers money is protected and 
they have protective fraudulent measures in place. Im not able to share the specific details 
of Santanders processes with Mr and Mrs H  but Im satisfied that the payment was 
flagged for review for the appropriate reasons.
I havent seen any evidence that Santander werent proactive when reviewing things. The 
block didnt remain in place for long, and Mr and Mrs H could access their account shortly 
after confirming some security questions.
Mr and Mrs H decided to close their joint account with Santander. Mr H telephoned 
Santander to request the closure, but as the joint account had pending Direct Debits, 
Santander advised Mr H to wait until they payments had been made before closing the 
account to avoid any issues with the Direct Debit payments. Ive listened to this phone call 
and it seems Mr H was happy with this approach as he agreed to it.
Mr and Mrs H were able to close their joint account without attending branch. So, I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint for the reasons Mr and Mrs H has suggested about Santander 
asking Mrs H to attend branch during the pandemic. I appreciate this may have been the 
case regarding another account, but my decision is only focusing on the joint account.
Overall, a payment Mr and Mrs H attempted to make from their joint account flagged for 
review, so Santander blocked it while they reviewed things. The block was removed shortly 
afterwards, and Mr and Mrs H then decided to close their account with Santander. In the 
circumstances of this complaint alone, I cant fairly agree that Santander did anything wrong. 
So, I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman