DRN-3993264
The complaint
Ms C and Mr C are unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a claim 
made under their buildings insurance policy. 
Any reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr C was contacted by the tenants who live in a property he owns and 
rents out. The tenants noticed some cracking in the walls. In February 2022, Mr C logged a 
claim with Ageas. 
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster who, in March 2022, recommended a trial hole investigation 
and a CCTV survey of the drainage system. Mr C felt it took too long to identify the cause of 
the damage and complained. A final response letter acknowledged it had taken some time 
for Ageas to inspect the report and decide on the next steps. 
The claim was accepted in April 2022, and the loss adjuster said the main cause of 
movement was a defect with the drainage system. Over the next few months, Ms C and Mr 
C became frustrated with what they considered to be a lack of progress. To try and identify 
how to reduce the damage being caused, Ms C and Mr C arranged for a drainage company 
to provide a quote setting out the repairs that needed to be carried out. They also arranged 
for a separate company to provide a quote for stabilising the property and instructed their 
own structural engineer to review these. The structural engineer said the subsoil had been 
weakened by an escape of water from the drains. He concluded the resin-injection 
recommended by one of the companies instructed by Mr C would be the most effective way 
of stabilising the property. 
The loss adjuster told Ms C and Mr C Ageas had said they would pay £9,000 for the internal 
repairs required. Ageas also said they would pay £3,000 for the drainage repairs; despite 
some indications the works could cost more than this. But there were also emails saying no 
action would be authorised until this service had reviewed the case. Ageas also questioned if 
some of the repairs recommended were betterment. 
Ms C and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who said Ageas needed to do more to put things right. She said they should 
pay for the repairs to the subsoil, as outlined by the company appointed by Ms C and Mr C. 
She also thought Ageas should reimburse Ms C and Mr C for the cost of the repairs to the 
drains (as by this point theyd had these repaired), appointing the structural engineer and for 
the survey carried out on the house and drains. She also said Ageas should pay Ms C and 
Mr C £400 compensation. She later recommended Ageas should go back and carry out a 
further inspection to determine of the offer for the internal repairs was sufficient given Mr Cs 
concerns about this no longer being sufficient given the time that had passed. 
Ms C and Mr C accepted the investigators opinions, but Ageas didnt reply within the 
timeframe set, despite asking for extensions. So this case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides are familiar with the background of this complaint which is why Ive kept the
summary brief. Ive carefully considered all the submissions made by both sides. My 
decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues. I trust neither side will take this 
as a discourtesy, rather that its a reflection of our informal nature.
The subsoil repairs
Ms C and Mr C have provided two independent reports, both of which indicated the subsoil 
under the foundation needed to be stabilised and recommended the most effective way to 
achieve this is by resin-injection. Ageas has provided a number of emails in which it states 
that this action is betterment, but I havent seen a persuasive explanation as to why it 
believes this.
Im satisfied Ageas was provided with sufficient opportunities during our investigation to 
supply evidence to support its view the resin-injection was betterment. As it didnt do so, Ive 
reached a decision based on the information available. The structural engineers report 
made the finding a lasting and effective repair would come from the resin-injection to the 
flank wall. To put things right, Ageas should pay for the cost to carry out this repair and, if 
they havent done so already, Ms C and Mr C should provide Ageas with an updated quote 
for the work to the flank wall only.
Given the only persuasive findings for a lasting and effective repair have come the structural 
engineer appointed by Ms C and Mr C, Ageas should also reimburse the cost they incurred 
as a result of instructing the structural engineer. Ageas should pay 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement upon being provided with an invoice.
The drains
I havent seen any evidence to explain how Ageas reached a figure of £3,000 for the repairs 
to the drains. But more than this, I havent seen any plausible reason why Ageas would have 
delayed taking action to repair the drainage system when there were multiple independent 
reports which set out the repairs needed and the consequences of delaying these repairs. 
Ageas were provided with ample opportunities to arrange for these repairs to be carried out 
but chose not to do so. I consider in the circumstances, Ms C and Mr C acted reasonably in 
arranging for the repairs to the drains to be carried out. I say this as they had frequently 
been told by their tenants the damage to the property was worsening. Its also clear from Mr 
Cs emails that he carefully considered the original quotes for the drainage repairs provided 
and explored which set of works should provide a lasting and effective repair.
Ageas should reimburse Ms C and Mr C for the full cost of the repairs they arranged to the 
drainage system, in line with the updated quote. Ageas should also pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Our investigator recommended Ageas refund Ms C and Mr C the cost of the drains survey 
they arranged. She said she was satisfied Ms C and Mr C had acted reasonably when 
instructing the company to provide a quote given she did not consider the survey carried out 
by the company appointed by Ageas was reliable. Ageas hasnt provided any further 
comments for me to consider in response to this. Ive considered both drainage surveys and I find the one provided by Ms C and Mr C to be more detailed and persuasive in setting out 
what repairs should be undertaken. 
Ageas should refund Ms C and Mr C the cost incurred to have the drainage company survey 
the house and drains. Ageas should also pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
The internal repairs
Ageas hasnt provided with a breakdown of the works that the £9,000 was originally intended 
to cover. But I cant see that Mr C has disputed the works that needed to be carried out, so it 
seems both sides had agreed what would be repaired using the money. Following our 
investigators opinion, Mr C said he didnt think the £9,000 towards the internal repairs and 
redecoration was sufficient. Our investigator thought the best time for this to be reconsidered 
was after the property had been stabilised. 
If the £9,000 offered by Ageas for the internal repairs agreed by both sides is no longer 
sufficient to cover the works this amount was originally intended to cover, Ageas should 
rescope the works and increase this amount accordingly. I say this because Ageas hasnt 
given any clear reason for why it delayed carrying out repairs to stabilise the property. I dont 
think its fair the delays it is responsible for should leave Ms C and Mr C out of pocket for 
repairs that would otherwise have been covered. 
In relation to the damage thats recently been mentioned in the house, Im inclined to agree 
that the most appropriate step is for Ageas to arrange for the loss adjuster to inspect the 
newer damage and consider if it should make Ms C and Mr C an offer in relation to that 
damage, subject to the policy terms. 
I require Ageas to reconsider if the offer of £9,000 for the internal repairs is still sufficient, 
given the time has passed since this offer was originally made. 
Compensation
I can see this matter has been very worrying for Ms C and Mr C. Its unfortunately the case 
that subsidence claims can take some time to be resolved, given the number of different 
factors involved. But here, the distress and inconvenience has primarily been caused by 
what appears to be avoidable delays in progressing the claim and arranging repairs. Im 
mindful Ms C and Mr C werent living in the property, but they were still impacted by the 
difficulties in trying to progress the claim. Ageas should pay £400 in recognition of the impact 
its handling of the claim had on them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right Ageas Insurance Limited should:
Refund Ms C and Mr C the cost they paid for the repairs to the drainage system in 
line with the updated invoice. Ageas should also pay 8% simple interest* from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.
Upon being provided with an updated quote, Ageas should pay to have the resin-
injection carried out to the flank wall.
Refund Ms C and Mr C the cost they paid to instruct the structural engineer. Ageas 
should also pay 8% simple interest* from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.Refund Ms C and Mr C the cost they paid to instruct the drainage company they 
appointed to survey the house and drains. Ageas should also pay 8% simple 
interest* from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reconsider if the £9,000 offered is sufficient to carry out the agreed internal repairs. 
If its not, Ageas should increase its offer, so the same internal repairs are covered.
Pay Ms C and Mr C £400 compensation. 
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Ms C and Mr C how much its taken 
off. If requested, Ageas should also provide Ms C and Mr C with a certificate showing the 
amount deducted, so they can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman