DRN-2945348
The complaint
Mr T has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint. Mr Lender did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ts complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr T took eight loans (a mixture of payday and instalment) from Mr Lender between June
2014 and February 2018. A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to
us from the lender can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMaximum Monthly 
Repayment
1 25/06/2014 30/07/2014 1 £250.00 £325.00
2 04/08/2014 31/10/2014 3 £250.00 £158.33
3 08/04/2015 30/06/2015 3 £220.00 £113.81
4 10/07/2015 20/08/2015 6 £480.00 £169.60
5 23/12/2016 22/02/2017 6 £800.00 £382.93
6 07/07/2017 31/07/2017 6 £770.00 £283.49
7 11/08/2017 22/12/2017 6 £370.00 £133.19
8 12/02/2018 26/05/2018 6 £200.00 £69.87
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint and concluded there were two chains of
lending (loans 1-4 and loans 5-8). She didnt think Mr Lender were wrong to approve Mr Ts
first three loans based on the information it gathered about his financial circumstances.
But when Mr T applied for loan 4, the adjudicator thought that the lender ought to have
realised that Mr Ts pattern of lending was showing signs that this loan had become
unsustainable for him. So, the adjudicator thought the lender was wrong to approve loan 4.
Mr T did not request any further lending for 16 months before applying for his fifth loan. So,
the adjudicator thought Mr Lender shouldve considered loans 5-8 as a new chain of lending.
And after considering Mr Lenders checks for these loans, the adjudicator thought the checks
were proportionate to the borrowing Mr T applied for and the information he declared about
his circumstances. So, the adjudicator didnt uphold loans 5-8.
It appears that Mr T agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator and provided the following comments;
There was a significant gap of 159 days between loan 2 being settled and loan 3
being approved. This is evidence that at the time loan 4 was approved that Mr T was
not reliant on the loans.
Mr T borrowed the same amount of capital for loans 1 and 2, which decreased at
loan 3 and only increased at loan 4. As loan 4 was the first increase in the borrowed
amount, there is not enough evidence to establish any sort of pattern.
Mr Lender provided this service with information relating to Mr T's credit check
results, which showed for the majority of Mr Ts borrowing relationship Mr Lender
was aware of only minimal other short terms loans. Which in Mr Lenders view is
evidence Mr T wasnt reliant on this type of borrowing.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision
.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at
the time these loans were provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this isthe case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Im satisfied there are three lending chains with the following loans in each chain;
loans 1 and 2,
loans 3 and 4 and
loans 5 - 8.
The main reason why Im intending to come to a different outcome to the one reached by the
adjudicator is because she concluded there were two lending chains. But I think the amount
of time between Mr T repaying these loans, and requesting a new loan was sufficient
enough, in my view, for Mr Lender to have assumed that Mr T had overcome whatever
financial motive he had for taking out his earlier loans. This means, that in effect, for each
lending chain Mr Lender could treat Mr T as a new customer and carry out proportionate
checks on that basis.
Loans 1-3, 5-8
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Mr Lender to have provided these loans to Mr T
based on the information provided by both parties. Both Mr Lender and Mr T appear to have
accepted our adjudicators findings about these loans. The dispute here is really concerned
with loan 4.
Taking into account what Mr Lender knew about Mr T at the time of these loan applications, I
also dont think Mr Lender was wrong to have approved these loans taking into account that
proportionate checks were carried out and the checks showed that Mr T was likely to be in a
position to afford these loans.
So, I wont comment further on the level of individual checks Mr Lender completed before
approving these loans, as I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about them. But
as Mr Ts earlier loans form part of the initial borrowing relationship Mr T had with the lender,
they are something I have taken into account when considering loan 4.
Loan 4
The adjudicator who initially investigated Mr Ts complaint thought that Mr Lender ought to
have seen that a pattern had emerged by loan 4 showing that the loan repayments had
become unsustainable for Mr T. Our adjudicator noted that loans 1-4 formed part of the
same borrowing chain and proceeded with the investigation on this basis.
But I dont think a pattern had emerged by loan 4 which suggested the borrowing had
become unsustainable or that Mr T had become reliant on these loans. Mr Ts borrowing
history shows that his first two loans ran for just over four months in total. He then went on to
request loan 3, more than five months after he repaid loan 2. As Mr T did not need to
request further loans during this five-month break, and the break was longer than the period
Mr T had ran his first two loans, I think Mr Lender could have reasonably concluded loan 3
was the start of a new lending chain.Ive then considered the checks Mr Lender completed for loan 4, which was the second loan
in a new chain of lending. Mr Lender asked for Mr Ts income and expenditure information,
and it completed a credit check. The information that Mr T declared about his finances
suggested he could comfortably meet the repayments for loan 4 of £169.60 because he
declared he had about £600 of disposable income each month.
And there wasnt anything else in the information Mr Lender gathered that wouldve made it
think that the lending had become unsustainable or that Mr T was having wider financial
problems.
Finally, given the loan Mr T applied for in conjunction with what he provided about his
financial situation, I dont think the checks needed to extend to verifying the information Mr T
was providing - for example, I dont think Mr Lender, needed to check his bank statements.
Overall, I think the checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate and showed it that
Mr T was likely to be able to afford the loan. So, Im intending to not uphold the complaint
about the sale of Mr Ts loan.
I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by the outcome of his complaint, but I hope my
explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and it told us it had nothing 
further to add. 
Mr T didnt agree with the findings in the provisional decision. In response he made the 
following points;
the burden is on Mr Lender to carry proportionate checks which it couldnt have done 
because Mr T says he was dependent on this sort of borrowing between 2012  2017
his borrowing increased and had Mr Lender charged excessive rates of interest
he was overdrawn for much of the period of time he borrowed
he doesnt believe that it carried out proportionate checks before lending to him. 
Ive thought about what Mr T said carefully, as well as considering his offer to supply this 
service with any further information that we may need. But I dont think, looking at everything 
I already have, that I need any further information from him. And having thought about what 
he says, unfortunately, his points havent changed my mind about his case, and Ive 
explained why below. 
Mr Lender has been able to provide, for each loan, the income and expenditure information 
Mr T declared as well as the summary details of its credit check results. I thought about this 
information in conjunction with the loan history which included the amounts borrowed, term 
of the loans as well as the gaps between when Mr T repaying his loans and taking a new 
one. 
Mr T, understandably is unhappy with the interest rate of these loans. But, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mr Lender charged Mr T more than the cost cap that was 
introduced by the industry regulator. So, while the interest may be high, the interest rate Mr 
Lender charged was within the guidelines issued by the regulator. Im sorry to hear about the long term borrowing and financial difficulties which Mr T had. But 
overall, I do consider the checks that Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks. Taking 
into account the value of the loans, the gaps between many of the loans and what Mr T 
declared to Mr Lender about his income and expenditure. 
Based on the information Mr T provided to Mr Lender it wouldve thought the loans were 
affordable for Mr T. I accept that had Mr Lender asked to see Mr Ts bank statements a 
different picture of his actual financial position may have been apparent. But due to the gaps 
between loans, I don't think it ever got to the point where Id have expected or thought Mr 
Lender needed to verify the information he was provided. 
As I dont think Mr Lender needed to check Mr Ts bank statements it therefore follows that I 
dont think Mr Lender wouldve been aware how Mr T was using his overdraft. If Mr Lender 
had been aware of the use of the overdraft, then it wouldve been something to consider as 
part of its creditworthiness assessment. But based on the information Mr T declared, there 
wasnt any indication of him using his overdraft. 
Ive thought about what Mr T says about the increasing amounts he borrowed. But I dont 
think, that on its own would be sufficient to uphold the complaint. The loans didnt always 
increase in value; indeed, his final loan was the smallest loan Mr T was given. The pattern of 
lending was something I considered when deciding whether proportionate checks were 
conducted. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr T had over an extended period of time, which he 
says were made worse by short term loans. I do hope things have improved for him now. I 
appreciate he is dissapointed with the outcome Ive reached on his case. But, I am only able 
to uphold if I think that the information Mr Lender was given showed the loans were 
unaffordable or a loss was incurred as a result of it not carrying out proportionate checks. 
So, taking everything into account, I havent been provided with any new evidence that in my 
mind is sufficient to alter the outcome that I reached in the provisional decision. In this case, 
due to the gaps in lending, which created a number of different lending chains, which had 
the effect of allowing Mr Lender to treat Mr T as a new customer when he returned for further 
lending after the breaks. As a result, I dont think it ever reached the point where Mr Lender 
needed to do further checks . The checks it carried out, are, in my mind were proportionate 
and these checks showed it that Mr T was likely to be afford the repayments he was 
committed to making. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman