DRN-4277406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy following water damage.
Reference to LV includes its agents and representatives.
Mrs E has primarily dealt with things, so for simplicity Ill refer to her only.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mrs E got in touch with LV in January 2023 after she noticed water coming through 
her kitchen ceiling.
LV appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage, but they didnt visit until April.
After the inspection, the claim was declined because the surveyor said the water leak 
had been caused by a problem with the sealant in the bathroom above. They said 
water had been seeping through the sealant, getting below the bath, and causing 
damage gradually over time.
Mrs E said the time it took LV to consider the claim meant the damage had got worse 
and it had become a bigger problem to put right. She asked them to pay toward the 
overall cost of repairing the damage. She also said it had left a hole in the kitchen 
ceiling after carrying out asbestos testing and she asked for it to be put right.
LV initially said it would put right the hole damage. But it later changed its mind, 
saying that the asbestos test didnt add to the existing ceiling damage. It accepted 
there had been a delay and miscommunication about putting right the hole in the 
kitchen ceiling and offered £250 compensation. It maintained it was fair to decline the 
claim as it was caused by the failure of sealant.
Our investigator didnt think LV should do anything further. He said it had declined 
the claim fairly, the compensation offered for the delay was fair, and there was no 
evidence to show the delays increased the level of damage or repairs required.
Mrs E disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by water leaking from any fixed domestic 
appliance or pipe. But not damage caused by lack of grouting or sealant. Or any 
claim arising from anything which happens gradually.
It also covers accidental damage. Again, but not as a result of anything gradual.
LV said the damage had been caused gradually over time by faulty sealant. Its 
surveyors report explains clearly that water was getting under the bath and causing 
damage as a result of a problem with the sealant around the bath. I understand that 
as the floor beneath the bath became wet, it became unstable, the bath moved, and 
that exacerbated the problem. I havent seen any evidence to challenge this opinion. 
So Im satisfied the damage was caused gradually and due to a lack of sealant. And 
whilst the bath movement may have amounted to accidental damage, it was caused 
gradually, so it wouldnt be covered under that section of the policy either.
When LV registered the claim in January, it recorded the claim as urgent given the 
leak was in the kitchen ceiling. However, it took around three months for its surveyor 
to visit. Im not satisfied thats reasonable for any water claim but especially not one 
noted to be urgent.
LV accepts this was an unreasonable delay which caused avoidable distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs E, so I dont think this point is in dispute.
Mrs E says the delay has made the damage worse and the cost of putting it right has 
increased. Whilst I can understand how that may be possible, I havent seen any 
evidence to show thats the case  or to show how much the cost may have 
increased by. Its possible the damage got worse but didnt increase the cost. For 
example, if the initial leak meant the kitchen ceiling needed replacing, extra water 
damage to the ceiling wouldnt change the need to replace it  or the cost.
Similarly, its not clear whether the asbestos test increased the existing ceiling 
damage. And even if it did, whether thats increased the cost of repair.
Overall, Im satisfied £250 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. So I 
wont be requiring LV to pay anything further based on the evidence available to me. 
But if Mrs E gathers information to support her point that the delay and/or asbestos 
testing increased the cost of repair, shes entitled to share it with LV  and Id expect 
it to consider whether that changes things.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman