DRN-2870818
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide her with a full cash 
refund, after cancelling her travel insurance policy.
  
What happened
On 12 February 2020, Mrs H purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided 
her with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional cover for Mrs 
Hs trip, including post- departure cover, with her going on holiday from 12 April 2020 to 20 
April 2020. 
The premium Mrs H paid for the policy was £659.70 in total, after a discount of £37.07 was 
applied to the purchase. The policy included cover for five medical conditions Mrs H 
declared.
Mrs H has explained that she found out her holiday had been cancelled on 19 March 2020. 
And so, she wrote to Great Lakes on the same day, to ask for her policy to be cancelled, and 
a full refund provided to her, given she would no longer be travelling. And, on not hearing 
anything back from Great Lakes, she contacted it again on 4 May 2020 and 1 July 2020 to 
ask for a refund again.
Great Lakes has said it tried to call Mrs H on 16 July 2020  but on being unsuccessful in 
reaching her it wrote her a letter and explained it wasnt able to provide her with a cash 
refund for her policy  because it had been cancelled after the 14 day cooling-off period the 
policy provided. But it told Mrs H that it could provide her with a pro-rata credit voucher, for 
the unused part of her travel insurance policy.
It calculated the credit voucher from 24 March 2020, to the date the policy was due to end on 
20 April 2020. This equated to an amount of £247.67. Mrs H would be able to use this to 
purchase a new travel insurance policy with Great Lakes, whether this was a single or 
annual multi-trip policy  as long as she did so within 36 months.
Mrs H didnt accept this offer. And because she remained unhappy with Great Lakes 
position on the matter, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
On referring her case to this service, Mrs H explained that she felt she should be provided 
with a refund of the full £659.70 she had paid for the policy, noting she hadnt received any 
benefits from the policy. Mrs H has also said that her health had worsened since she was 
initially due to go on holiday, and that a voucher would therefore not be of any use to her.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and provided their opinion on the matter. They set 
out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the 
circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 12 February 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, and cover would have been available 
under the policy until the date the holiday was cancelled on 19 March 2020.
However, the investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. And they thought that in this instance, it would be fair for Great Lakes to provide a 
pro-rata refund to Mrs H, from the date her holiday was cancelled, until the end date of the 
policy on 20 April 2020. Great Lakes agreed to this, and it recalculated the voucher value for 
Mrs H in line with this. So, the offer to Mrs H was then a credit voucher for £296.17.
Our investigator thought a refund to Mrs H of £296.17 in the form of a credit voucher was 
fair. But after Mrs H provided new information on her health, our investigator asked Great 
Lakes to provide the refund in cash instead. This was because Mrs H had provided 
information to show she was now having problems with her eyes and her mobility, and so 
was unlikely to go on holiday again in the future. In light of this information, Great Lakes 
agreed to provide the £296.17 in cash.
Mrs H didnt think this was fair. She said the full £659.70 should be refunded to her in cash, 
as she felt she had not used the policy at all.
Because Mrs H remained dissatisfied, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im satisfied Great Lakes offer to refund Mrs H £296.17 in cash is fair and reasonable. I say 
this because; 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mrs H, 
regardless of the reasons for cancelling after the 14 day period had ended.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mrs H wanted to cancel her insurance policy. Her holiday would no 
longer be going ahead as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think Mrs Hs 
reasons for cancelling her policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional 
circumstances. I say this because Mrs H cancelled her policy due to the pandemic. And I 
dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or 
changes in the policyholders health. And whilst Mrs Hs health may have changed now  
this wasnt the reasoning for cancelling in March 2020.
I have however taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
And in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs H doesnt feel she received any benefit under her insurance policy. But I dont agree. Im 
satisfied that she did receive some benefit from it. Mrs H was covered from the date she 
purchased her policy, for any cancellation claim she may have needed to make. And the 
premium she paid included this cover. As Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim 
during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that Mrs H pay for Great Lakes acceptance of 
this risk. 
Mrs H didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of her holiday. Fortunately, she 
received a refund of this from her travel provider. Instead, she contacted Great Lakes on 19 
March 2020, to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, given her holiday had been 
cancelled. Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from 19 March 2020, 
and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer to now provide a pro-
rata refund, from the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It means Great Lakes isnt 
charging a premium when it knows there is nothing left to cover.  
I do think Great Lakes offer of a voucher was a fair alternative to a monetary refund. But 
Mrs Hs health has deteriorated since that point, and as a result Great Lakes has agreed to 
provide Mrs H with the pro-rata refund in cash instead. I do think this is a fair and reasonable 
way to refund Mrs H  given the evidence suggests her health has worsened and going on 
holiday in the future is unlikely.
Im also satisfied the amount Great Lakes has calculated this monetary refund at is fair, as I 
dont think Great Lakes has treated Mrs H differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to 
how it has set and calculated the refund in this case. Great Lakes has calculated the refund 
from the date Mrs Hs holiday was cancelled  19 March 2020, to the date the policy was 
due to end, 20 April 2020. This meant there would be 33 days of the policy unused, where 
Great Lakes werent on risk  which equates to £296.17 of the premium paid. As this offer 
reflects the fact that Great Lakes were not on risk for the 33 days after the holiday was 
cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is now fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied Great Lakes offer to provide Mrs H with a cash refund 
of £296.17 is now fair. And therefore, if it hasnt already done so, it should pay this to Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman