DRN-3319982
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his bank account leaving him without access 
to his money.
What happened
Mr B says that HSBC closed his current account while leaving his savings account open. He 
says this meant he couldnt transfer the money from his savings account and so couldnt 
access his money. He was abroad at the time and unable to travel back due to Covid-19 
restrictions and says he had to rely on charity for basics such as food. He says he wants his 
account re-opened and compensation for the upset and issues caused by its closure.
HSBC initially said that Mr Bs account was closed in May 2019 due to a default. It then said 
this was a mistake and that the account was closed due to dormancy and Mr B wasnt 
informed as the UK address it had on its system had been marked as Gone Away. Due to 
the error, it offered to pay Mr B £100. It didnt agree to reopen the account. Regarding Mr Bs 
savings account it said Mr B had access to its telephone banking services and he could 
transfer his money from this account to any other account.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong by closing Mr Bs account and 
he didnt find this had caused any financial detriment as there was a negative balance on the 
account at the time of £5.80 which was written off. He said that as a Gone Away marker 
had been added to Mr Bs account it was right the correspondence wasnt being sent. 
Therefore, he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about the closure of the account and thought 
the £100 offered in the final response letter was reasonable.
Mr B responded to our investigators view. He reiterated that the money in his account was 
his and that closing his other account meant he couldnt transfer money from his savings 
account. He didnt think £100 was enough given the discomfort he had been caused. 
Following the view being issued further questions were raised and HSBC said it could have 
done more to inform Mr B about the account closure. Because of this it increased its offer of 
compensation to a total of £200. Mr B didnt accept that £200 was enough given the upset 
and inconvenience he had been caused.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the issues Mr B has experienced and can understand why he was 
upset that his account was closed. 
Mr B had a current account and a savings account with HSBC. He says that because his 
current account was closed, he couldnt access the money in his savings account. While I 
appreciate this may be what he had understood, this isnt correct and the money in the 
savings account could have been accessed by Mr B. HSBC has said Mr B has telephone 
banking services and so he could have called and transferred amounts to another account. 
Therefore, I do not find that the closing of Mr Bs current account meant he couldnt access 
his savings.  
That said, I understand that Mr B is upset his current account was closed. He said this was 
the account he used for payments, credit card and so on meaning it was very disruptive for 
this to be closed. I have looked at the current account statements and can see he used the 
account although this use was very limited. He made a transfer in and out on 1 October 
2018 and then a transfer and payment in December 2018. This left a small positive balance. 
Mr B then made a payment from the account on 3 April 2019 which resulted in a small 
negative balance. So, while I note Mr Bs comment about the account being the one he 
used, based on what I have seen, this doesnt seem to be the case and I assume Mr B had 
other means for making his regular payments. I also note that Mr B raised his complaint 
about the closed account in October 2020, more than a year after the account was closed in 
May 2019 which again suggests it wasnt an account he was reliant on for his day to day 
transactions. 
While the account doesnt appear to be one that Mr B was using for his regular payments, I 
can still understand why he was upset that it was closed. I can see a letter was sent in July 
2018 saying the account hadnt been used since January 2018 and that it should be used 
regularly. The terms and conditions of the account allow HSBC to close the account 
immediately in certain circumstances and can close the account after giving two months 
notice in other circumstances. In this case, a Gone Away marker had been recorded on 
Mr Bs account in October 2018. As I cannot see that Mr B provided an up-to-date address 
at this time, I cannot say that had further correspondence about his account been sent that 
this would have been received by Mr B rather than returned.  
HSBC said in its final response letter that the account was closed by its collections team and 
due to a default a new account couldnt be opened. It then said that a default wasnt applied 
as given the small size of the balance it was written off and that account was closed due to 
dormancy.
Overall, I do not think that HSBC provided the service it should have when dealing with the 
closure of Mr Bs current account. I say this because the account had only gone into a 
negative balance a month before the account was closed and it didnt appear to be a 
dormant account. I cant see that notice of the account closure was sent and I think that 
HSBC should have done more to try to notify Mr B about his account closure. 
Mr B has said he wants his account re-opened. I do not require HSBC to do this. It is for 
HSBC to decide what if any services it provides to customers. I think that the issue has 
caused Mr B some upset and that the incorrect information given for the account closure 
provided further distress. HSBC initially offered to pay Mr B £100 because of this and since 
our investigation has increased this amount to £200.
I understand that Mr B doesnt think £200 is enough compensation given the issues he has 
experienced. However, as the account that was closed was one he wasnt making regular 
use of and based on when he raised the complaint it doesnt appear to have been a major 
issue for him at the point of closure, I think £200 is reasonable. I note Mr Bs comment about 
access to his savings account but this has always been available to him and had he 
contacted HSBC about this it could have assisted him sooner to prevent him being without 
funds at a very difficult time.Overall, I think the total compensation of £200 offered in resolution to this complaint is 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr B a total of £200 compensation for the issues raised in 
this complaint (if this hasnt already happened). I do not require it to do anything further in 
regard to the account closure.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman