DRN-3306932
Complaint
Mr F has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the charges were unfair and caused him difficulty.
Background
Mr Fs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicator 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ive already separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Mr Fs 
account from February 2015 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking 
whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr F from February 2015.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. So while Mr F has said that the amount of the charges 
themselves makes them unethical this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr F if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Fs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr F was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr F fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Mr F even though it ought to have instead stepped in and taken corrective 
measures on the overdraft as it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this was the case. Ive looked through the account ledgers provided throughout the period 
concerned. And I cant see that Barclays ought to have taken corrective measures in relation 
to Mr Fs overdraft during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mr F used his overdraft regularly during the period Ive looked at. And        
Mr F suggests that this in itself is a reason to indicate Barclays ought to have corrective 
measures sooner than it. But I also think its important to look at Mr Fs incomings and 
outgoing as well as any overdrawn balance and whether it was possible for him to have 
stopped using his overdraft, based on this, not just whether he actually did do so. After all if 
he was locked into paying charges because there was no prospect of him exiting his 
overdraft then his facility would have been unsustainable for him. 
However, while I am concerned about the amount Mr F used his overdraft in the period 
between 2016 and 2018 and his usage could have indicated a problem, I do have to weigh 
this against other factors. For example, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over Mr F expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
Indeed, its fair to say a significant proportion of Mr Fs expenditure was discretionary. And 
most crucially of all the credits going into this account, together with balances Mr F held in 
his other Barclays accounts, suggested that he could have cleared his overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time had he wished to do so.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr F wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And Im sorry to hear what Mr F has said about experiencing 
financial difficulty. But considering the overall picture here I dont think that it ought to have 
been obviously apparent to Barclays that this was the case. I say this while especially 
mindful that corrective action in relation to Mr Fs overdraft facility is likely to have resulted in 
adverse information being recorded on his credit file, which I think would have been 
disproportionate considering Mr F appeared to have the means to repay what he owed 
within a reasonable period of time. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays 
to have proceeded adding the charges that it did add from February 2015 onwards. And I 
dont think Barclays charged Mr F in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it 
was unfair to do so. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr F  especially as it has taken sometime 
for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman