DRN-3212062
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the amount he was charged by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(trading as MORE TH>N) for his car insurance, even though he had nine years no-claims 
bonus. He also complains that they failed to update the details they held about his car  he 
feels theyve treated him unfairly due to his nationality.   
What happened
Mr T took out motor insurance with MORE TH>N on 28 September 2020, paying a deposit of 
£158.25. The balance of the amount owed was to be paid in monthly instalments, with the 
first payment of £86.23 being due on 25 November 2020.
MORE TH>N requested evidence of Mr Ts no-claims bonus (NCB). He had a separate 
policy for a different car with another insurer - he provided a letter from that other insurer 
showing he had nine years NCB. But on 9 November 2020 MORE TH>N contacted him to 
say theyd amended his policy to zero NCB and that his premium would increase.
 
Mr T says that, on 20 October 2020, he changed his car number plate. He says he wrote to 
MORE TH>N telling them about this change straight away  and that he chased them many 
times by phone asking them to update their records. He says on several occasions he was 
told they couldnt speak to him because his account was under investigation. He says they 
didnt contact him until 20 November 2020. 
Mr T cancelled the policy on 23 November 2020. He says he expected to pay a £50 
cancellation fee. But they told him he still owed them £215.54 for the time he was on cover. 
Mr T complained about the amount of money MORE TH>N had charged. He said he felt 
hed been unfairly punished because of his nationality. 
Our investigator was satisfied that MORE TH>Ns website made it clear that customers 
arent permitted to use their NCB on two different policies at the same time  and that this 
wasnt an unfair condition. She said shed seen evidence that Mr T was already using his 
NCB on another policy for a different vehicle. So, she didnt think MORE TH>N had acted 
unfairly by amending the NCB to zero and increasing his premium. 
The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence to confirm Mr T had asked MORE TH>N 
to amend the registration number. She thought it was fair that Mr T should pay the proportion 
of the higher premium for the days hed had cover, as well as a £50 charge for cancelling 
after the 14-day cooling-off period, in accordance with the policy terms. 
Mr T said he hadnt known he couldnt use his NCB for two cars at the same time. He didnt 
think he should have to pay MORE TH>N for the period of cover they claimed to have 
provided, because hed repeatedly asked them to update their records with the correct 
registration number. He thought theyd only provided some of the call recordings to our 
investigator - and that shed chosen to believe MORE TH>N because he didnt speak very 
good English. 
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The increase in Mr Ts insurance premium
When customers apply for a policy, insurers ask questions to help them decide whether 
theyre prepared to offer cover, and if so, on what terms. The relevant law here is the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, which Ill refer to as 
CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
in response to the insurers questions. 
CIDRA gives insurers remedies to deal with certain situations where a consumer hasnt 
taken reasonable care and misrepresented something. The test is how much care a 
reasonable consumer wouldve taken when they gave their answers. 
MORE TH>N have provided a screenshot of the relevant part of their online application 
process, showing Mr T wouldve been asked how many years NCB he had. A question-mark 
appeared next to this, so he could find out what it meant. After describing what NCB is and 
how it can be built up, it says:
You can transfer your NCB to an alternative car but cant use the same NCB on 
more than one vehicle
And at the bottom of this information box it says:
Important: Youll need to provide proof of your NCB to a new insurer after you 
take out a policy.
Ive seen that there was also a warning that failure to enter correct information could result in 
a policy being cancelled or a claim being rejected. So, Im satisfied that MORE TH>N 
provided clear information about transferring NCB from another car when Mr T bought his 
policy.
Ive also seen evidence showing that, on 5 November 2020, Mr T forwarded proof of the 
NCB he held on his other policy. Ive listened to the recording of the phone conversation the 
following day, when MORE TH>N advised him that he couldnt use his NCB on two car 
insurance policies at the same time. Mr T asked whether hed be able to transfer his NCB if 
he cancelled that other policy  he was told this wouldnt be possible. The advisor promised 
to find out how much extra it would cost to continue with the MORE TH>N policy with zero 
NCB. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter MORE TH>N sent Mr T on 9 November 2020, advising him that 
his monthly payments would increase to £197.77. Im satisfied that this letter clearly 
explained that the increase was due to his NCB having been reduced to zero  and that this 
had happened because the NCB hed told them about was already being used on another 
car. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that MORE TH>N were entitled to treat 
their original agreement with Mr T as void, because it was based on incorrect information 
about the amount of NCB he was able to use on this policy. And that they were entitled to 
increase Mr Ts premium to the price theyd charge with zero NCB. Im also satisfied that 
they explained this to Mr T. 
Updating details about the carThe evidence MORE TH>N have provided confirms that, after Mr T received their request for 
proof of his NCB, he contacted them many times asking questions about what was 
happening. Ive read the notes and listened to the recordings of the many calls Mr T made 
between 23 October and 23 November 2020, when the policy was cancelled. But I havent 
seen or heard any suggestion that he told them he wanted to amend the registration 
number. For this reason, Im not persuaded that they made a mistake about the details of the 
car hed asked them to insure. So, I do think Mr T should pay for the period of cover he 
received. 
The amount Mr T owed after cancelling the policy
The terms on which MORE TH>N agree to provide insurance are set out in their policy 
booklet, which needs to be read together with the insurance schedule they sent Mr T when 
he took out the policy. Ive read this carefully to see what it says about cancellation. It 
explains MORE TH>N would calculate any refund of the premium due and deduct any 
amounts Mr T owed them at the time. It says theyll also charge a £50 cancellation fee. 
MORE TH>N say they insured Mr Ts car from 28 September to 23 November 2020, which I 
calculate to be a period of no more than 57 days. Theyve told us that his final invoice 
shouldve been £207.50, instead of £215.54. But Im not persuaded that theyve based their 
calculations on the appropriate period of time. 
Although they havent provided a copy of the call recording, MORE TH>Ns records clearly 
state that Mr T called them on 17 November 2020 to cancel his policy, because hed sold his 
car the night before. And that their computer system wouldnt allow the call handler to 
process his request at that time. I dont consider it fair for him to be required to pay more 
because of the way his policy had been set up on MORE TH>Ns system. Im satisfied that 
they knew there was no longer a car on cover on 17 November 2020, so I think they 
shouldve cancelled the policy with effect from that date. I calculate this to be a period of no 
more than 51 days cover. 
Discrimination
Mr T says he feels MORE TH>N discriminated against him because of his nationality. Ive 
thought carefully about what hes said. Ive heard how upset he is about the service hes 
received. And I can understand that his upset has been more acutely felt because hes come 
away with the impression that the service was poorer, and the premium more expensive, 
because of his nationality. But whilst Im sorry that Mr T feels this way, I think the way MORE 
TH>N charged him for his insurance was fair in the circumstances. I dont think theres any 
evidence that his nationality or ethnic origin played a part in that.
That said, I do think MORE TH>N missed opportunities to improve their communication with 
Mr T. Having listened to a number of his calls, I dont think there was any reason why staff 
wouldnt be able to understand him. But from quite early on he made it clear that he didnt 
consider his English to be very good  sometimes passing over the phone so they could 
speak to his wife instead or asking for explanations to be sent to him by email.
Im satisfied that, on 9 November 2020, MORE TH>N sent Mr T a written explanation of the 
reasons why his premium needed to be increased. But the evidence Ive seen shows he 
called again the following day - and that they promised to email him about whether there was 
another way in which they could bring the cost down, instead of cancelling the policy. Mr T 
used MORE TH>Ns online chat the next day saying he was still awaiting a final payment 
figure  again he was promised an email. And after cancelling the policy on 23 November 
2020, Mr T again asked for an email explaining the breakdown of charges. Ive seen no 
evidence that he received a response to these requests. Its not my role to tell a business what method(s) of communication they should use to 
explain things to customers. But where a business has promised to send a communication in 
writing Id expect them to do so  particularly where the customer has made them aware that 
he doesnt feel confident in his ability to communicate fluently in spoken English. 
In this case I think that, because MORE TH>N didnt send written explanations when they 
said they would, Mr T wasnt able to check his understanding of what theyd told him over 
the phone with his wife. I think that added to the frustration, upset and inconvenience he 
experienced. I consider £100 to be fair and reasonable compensation for this.
I said I was minded to uphold the complaint and direct MORE TH>N to:
Recalculate their final invoice to Mr T, based on a period of cover from 28 September 
- 17 November 2020 with zero NCB, to which theyre entitled to add a £50 
cancellation fee;
Compensate Mr T for the inconvenience and upset hes been caused. I assessed 
suitable compensation at £100. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information of comments theyd like me to 
consider. Neither party responded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any further information or comments in response to my provisional 
findings, I see no reason to depart from them.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Recalculate their final invoice to Mr T, based on a period of cover from 28 September 
- 17 November 2020 with zero NCB, to which theyre entitled to add a £50 
cancellation fee;
Compensate Mr T for the inconvenience and upset hes been caused. Ive assessed 
suitable compensation at £100. 
As theres an outstanding balance on Mr Ts account, the business would be entitled to 
offset compensation they owe to him against that debt. It would therefore seem sensible for 
them to reduce their final invoice to Mr T by £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman