DRN-4083558
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2020, Mr O opened an account with Starling. He received and transferred on various 
sums of money. Starling received a report that hed received and passed on fraudulent funds 
 particularly, a payment of £4,000.
Starling queried things with Mr O. Mr O explained he was receiving money for a start-up 
business, where he was either buying beauty products for his salon, or selling products to 
other salons, or was providing logistics for delivering products, or was raising capital. He 
said the payment in dispute was either for consulting work hed done, or it was a deposit for 
the business. He provided an extract from a contract with a limited company that does not 
appear to be genuine. He was unable to provide any other proof he was entitled to the 
money. Mr O said he was unaware of the source of the funds  to him this was just a start-
up that failed, and he said he gave refunds to all his investors.
Starling also received a separate report that a fraudster had tried to get their victim to pay 
money to Mr Os account.
Starling closed Mr Os account and registered a marker at CIFAS.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr O and Starling a provisional decision on 29 March 2023, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Starling were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr O had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think Starling did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
Starling received an official report from another institution that the money Mr O received did 
not come from beauty products or a genuine business, but from the proceeds of fraud.
Mr O hasnt been able to show he was entitled to this money. He provided an extract from 
his limited companys contract, though not the full contract. And the contract does not seem 
genuine. His limited company is not on Companies House and does not appear to be 
legitimate. Starling also pointed out that under Mr Os type of visa, he wouldnt be allowed to 
run a business.
We asked Mr O for evidence to help him support his testimony and show he was entitled to 
these funds. For example, we asked him for his companys official documents, documents 
showing he was allowed to run a business in the UK, receipts for the goods he said he 
purchased, invoices and correspondence with buyers for the goods he said he sold, 
evidence of the funding activity he said he was hired for, and evidence of the refunds he said 
hed given to investors. At present, Mr O has not provided any of this information.
So Mr O received fraudulent funds that hes not yet evidenced he was entitled to. And Im 
afraid I do need to point out that his testimony has been contradictory. For example, at 
different points hes said very different things about what this business was, what he was 
doing, and what the disputed payment was for. This makes it very difficult for me to take any 
of his versions of events as being correct.
Mr Os Starling account was used for little other than receiving and transferring on funds. 
The account which sent him the disputed money was similar. This would be very unusual if 
these were genuine business accounts  Id expect there to be substantial business activity 
rather than just moving on money. But it fits very well with the possibility that Mr O was 
acting as a money mule.
Importantly, Starling also received another report that someone tried to defraud another 
customer, and they tried to get that customer to pay their money to Mr O. That wouldnt 
make sense if Mr O was running a genuine business account. But again, it fits very well with 
the possibility that Mr O was receiving and passing on fraudulent funds.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr O 
couldve knowingly and willingly received and passed on the proceeds of fraud.
In summary, Mr O received and passed on funds that were confirmed as fraudulent. Hes not 
been able to evidence he was entitled to the money, when there should be lots of evidence 
he could provide if this were a legitimate business. His business does not appear to be 
genuine. His testimony has been contradictory and unreliable. His account activity is 
consistent with that of a money mule. And there was a further report that more fraudulent 
funds were attempted to be passed to Mr O.
So it seems reasonable that Starling registered the appropriate marker at CIFAS. It follows 
that I also think it was reasonable for them to close Mr Os account, which they were able to 
do under the terms. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Mr O to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, 
Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
13 April 2023. But neither Mr O nor Starling sent me anything new to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman