DRN-2586039
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a backdated unemployment 
claim he made on his mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P was made redundant in April 2019. At that point he did not register as unemployed and 
he did not make a claim on the policy. Instead, he lived off his savings whilst trying to set 
himself up as self-employed. Although he says he was making progress with this aim, with 
the onset of the pandemic and the first lockdown, and no help available from the 
Government, he had no option but to make a claim for unemployment in May 2020. Mr Ps 
claim was for a backdated period of 12 months, beginning on 1 April 2019. 12 months is the 
maximum benefit payable under the benefit for any one claim.
Mr P returned the claim form in which he stated that he had been actively seeking 
employment. Under Additional Information, Mr P stated he did much training and 
professional development and did much to create new business, including networking 
meetings, and was setting up as self-employed. In support of his claim Mr P provided 
evidence of attendance at a number of networking meetings with follow up emails that he 
had sent in pursuit of self-employed work. He also provided evidence of attending a course 
about setting up your own business.
On 24 June 2020 Mr P was informed of the underwriters decision to decline the backdating 
of his claim to April 2019 because he had failed to meet the terms of the policy during the 
twelve months from that date. This was because he had not signed on for Jobseekers 
allowance (JSA). In addition, the underwriters were not satisfied that the networking and 
training evidence provided by Mr P fulfilled the requirement for a policyholder to be looking 
for full time work. However, Aviva said that it would be willing to consider any claim from the 
date that Mr P did sign on as unemployed and provided evidence that he had been awarded 
either JSA or Universal Credit or was otherwise ineligible for these benefits.
Following this, Mr P explained in more detail his reasons for not wanting to sign on due to a 
bad experience of doing so at the job centre in 2008/09 which adversely affected his mental 
health. As a result, he had suffered anxiety at the thought of having to sign on following his 
redundancy in 2019 and, in order to protect his health from declining further, decided not to 
do so. In response to this, Aviva reaffirmed that it would not backdate the claim. However, it 
agreed to waive the requirement to sign on going forward and agreed to accept the claim 
from 22 May 2020, which was the date that Mr P first made contact with it. It released a 
payment to him for the period 21 June 2020 to 20 July 2020 and confirmed that Mr P would 
have to supply evidence of job searching activities for each continued month of 
unemployment. It stated that whilst networking events and training could form part of that 
evidence, it would also require evidence that Mr P was also seeking full time permanent 
work.
Mr P expressed disappointment that the backdated claim had not been agreed, although he 
appreciated its acceptance from May 2020. Mr P asked for confirmation of when he would 
need to submit his next declaration and was told that he would need to complete the forms 
by 9 August 2020. Mr P has confirmed that he has not sent Aviva any further documentation 
in support of his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states: For unemployment claims you need to have a Jobseekers Agreement 
for the whole time you are claiming. If you are ineligible for a Jobseekers Agreement, you 
must be able to provide ongoing alternative evidence acceptable to us that you are 
unemployed and actively seeking work. This could include copies of job applications, 
responses and registration with job agencies.
Mr P says that Aviva didnt give proper consideration to his mental health issues when 
declining his backdated claim. Avivas decision to waive the requirement to be registered as 
unemployed going forward suggests that it had considered Mr Ps anxiety issues and is 
sympathetic to his situation. However, Avivas declination of the backdated claim was 
twofold. Firstly, that Mr P had not registered as unemployed and secondly, that the evidence 
Mr P provided of attending networking and training events was insufficient to prove that he 
had been actively looking for work for the twelve-month period from 1 April 2019. Therefore, 
even if Aviva had waived the requirement for Mr P to be registered for JSA for that period, it 
would still have declined the claim.
Mr P hasnt provided any evidence of looking for employed work, such as job applications or 
rejections, or of registering with employment agencies. Mr P is very experienced in his 
professional field and, having spoken to his contacts in the industry, is of the view that these 
traditional forms of seeking work would not be successful for him. Thats because Brexit 
caused a lot of the client base to fall away and companies, if they are recruiting at all, 
currently have a preference for cheaper entry-level staff rather than an experienced person 
like himself. As Mr P could see no prospect of securing employed work, that was the reason 
he was trying to set himself up as self-employed.
I have no doubt that this is the position as Mr P sees it, and I am not doubting his integrity. 
The problem is the expectation that Aviva should waive its requirement for evidence to 
support this position. Mr P sees signing on with agencies and applying for jobs, as just 
playing the game for the purposes of meeting the policy requirements. However, it is 
reasonable for Aviva to require evidence that Mr P is unable to secure work via traditional 
means, and that can only be tested by Mr P actually performing the sorts of job search 
activities listed in the policy document.
Mr P says that, as the maximum pay out under the policy is 12 months worth of payments, 
Aviva knows exactly what its liability is if it accepted the backdated claim. However, it does 
not follow that Aviva should accept the claim simply because it is for a defined amount. 
Mr P has highlighted the policy wording above, together with the definition of work under 
the policy, which is: Any paid work of at least 16 hours a week. This includes self-employed 
work and statutory maternity and parental leave but not temporary work.
Mr P is therefore of the view that the evidence he provided initially of networking and training 
with a view to becoming self-employed, is sufficient to meet the requirement under the policy 
term of actively seeking work. Furthermore, he has made reference to the legal doctrine of 
contra proferentem, in which ambiguous contract terms should be interpreted against the 
interests of the party that has provided the wording. Ive considered these points very 
carefully in reaching my decision.My role as an ombudsman is to make decisions that are fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. The intention of the policy is to provide support to 
policyholders during a difficult time when they have found themselves without work, until 
they hopefully find work or otherwise receive the maximum 12 months benefit. It is not the 
intention of the policy to provide policyholders with a grace period in which they attempt to 
build up a business rather than actively looking for paid employment. Therefore, whilst I 
appreciate Mr Ps point about the definition of work, I consider it is fair and reasonable for 
Aviva to require Mr P to provide evidence that he is seeking permanent employment. On 
balance, I consider that Aviva acted reasonably in declining Mr Ps backdated claim. 
Aviva has also acted reasonably in agreeing to waive the need for Mr P to register as 
unemployed for the claim it accepted from 22 May 2020. Aviva used its discretion to make a 
first payment to Mr P to cover the period 21 June 2020 to 20 July 2020. However, it made it 
clear to Mr P that he would be expected to provide monthly ongoing job search evidence in 
order to receive continuing payments and that such evidence must demonstrate that he was 
seeking full-time permanent work.
Mr P says that it is not possible to get a job during the Covid pandemic. The policy does not 
define what level of proof Aviva considers acceptable. We would expect Aviva to take the 
prevailing circumstances into account when assessing what it considers to be reasonable 
evidence of someone actively looking for work. Mr P may wish to seek advice from Aviva 
about the type and amount of job search evidence it would expect him to provide in relation 
to any ongoing claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint 
against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman