DRN-3187758
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs D says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because Halifax 
told us that the commission paid for the PPI was less than 50% of the premiums paid, it 
didnt need to pay back any of the commission. But in any event, Halifax had made an offer 
to refund some of Mrs Ds PPI premiums as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Mrs D 
about the commission it received. But in any event Halifax offered to pay back some of the 
cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons 
for each of these conclusions below. 
 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
Mrs D told us that she thought shed bought the PPI policy through the post. However, 
looking at the documentary evidence thats available from the time, I think its most likely the 
cover was sold in a Halifax branch at the same time as Mrs D applied for her credit card. I 
cant know what was said during that meeting, and Mrs D doesnt seem to remember 
anything about it. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, I have taken 
account of what Mrs D said, but Ive looked with particular care at the paperwork and the 
electronic information thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Halifax made it clear to Mrs D that the PPI was 
optional, and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see from the application 
form that Mrs D had to select PPI if she wanted it to be added to her account  and that 
selection was made. I think its most likely there was a discussion with the person selling the 
cover about whether Mrs D wanted the PPI policy. I say this because I can see Mrs D 
refused another financial product that was offered at the same time. The wording on the 
application form is sufficiently clear to show she had a choice. And I think its most likely the 
person selling cover also made that clear. If Mrs D hadnt wanted PPI, I think shed have 
queried why the cover had been selected on the application form when she signed it. But the 
evidence doesnt suggest she did.  
As PPI was sold in a Halifax branch, Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means Halifax 
had to check that the PPI was suitable for Mrs Ds needs. To help me decide whether the 
cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also 
thought carefully about what we know about Mrs Ds personal circumstances at the relevant 
time. 
I can see that if shed made a successful claim on the policy, 10% of Mrs Ds credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was off sick or following redundancy 
up to a maximum of 12 months. Her balance would have likely been cleared in the 
unfortunate event of her death or if she developed a critical illness. 
I can see that Mrs D would have received less than three months sick pay from her 
employer. So it follows that the PPI would have lasted longer than her sick pay. Mrs D said 
shed have been entitled to three months full pay from her employer if she was made 
redundant. I think that would have been a very generous package, given shed been in her 
role for around three years. But even if that was right, the PPI would have still lasted for 
longer than her redundancy pay. 
I understand Mrs D had a life insurance policy at the same time as the PPI, and a PPI policy 
to cover her share of the mortgage if she was out of work. But the life insurance wouldnt 
have paid out if Mrs D was off sick or if she lost her job. And the mortgage PPI wouldnt have 
covered her credit card. So I can see how the cover Halifax sold Mrs D could have been 
helpful at what would have no doubt been a difficult time for her if she was out of work. 
Mrs D told us that she had a perforated ear drum and inflammation of her eye some years 
before the cover was sold. The evidence doesnt suggest these conditions caused her any 
ongoing issues in 2003. I can see she was also diagnosed with a cardiological condition 23 
years before the cover was sold. She missed a few days off work because of that. Its not 
clear whether this condition was ongoing when the cover was sold. But as Mrs D only 
missed a few days from work around the time of her diagnosis, I dont think shed have 
reasonably thought shed need to take time off work because of this. There was nothing about Mrs Ds employment or occupation that would have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim. With all of this in mind, I cant say Halifaxs PPI 
recommendation was wrong or unsuitable. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mrs D enough information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. Its possible the information 
provided at the point of sale wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that Mrs D 
chose to take the cover out, so it looks like she wanted this type of policy. As I have set out 
above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable, nor was it too dissimilar to what 
she reasonably thought from the information likely provided at the point of sale. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable and so it seems like it could have been useful if something went 
wrong with her job. Because of this I dont think Mrs D would have declined the cover had 
Halifax given her more or better information about it. 
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale, the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. So I think she would have still thought she had some 
good reasons to take the cover out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought it was. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event it has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI as a gesture of goodwill, so 
theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?The representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint, 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
In summary they said Mrs D should get back all the money that was paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mrs D about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs D wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had she known about the level of commission. It is further argued a refund of all premiums 
should be paid.  
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mrs Ds PPI was less than half of 
what was paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in this case was less than half 
the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
the effect of sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act;
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share. This guidance was introduced in 
light of the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin, which requires a business to 
presume that the failure to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship where the business expected commission and profit share to be 
more than 50% of the cost of the policy,
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs D about the commission. So it follows that I cant say 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship. With that in mind, I dont think Halifax 
treated Mrs D unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mrs D back any of the commission that was paid for 
the PPI. 
But in any event Halifax offered to give back to Mrs D some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. This was a gesture of goodwill. So I dont 
think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ds complaint and so I havent directed 
any compensation to be paid in respect of that. 
And because Ive decided that as Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt need to 
disclose the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs 
D paid for the PPI. Nevertheless, it offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D 
and should now make arrangements to pay Mrs D if it hasnt already done so. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman