DRN-4042674
The complaint
Mr P complains about how British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with his boiler breakdown. 
Hes unhappy that he was told the repair needed wasnt covered by his policy, that his gas 
supply was turned off and that he was left without heating. He wants British Gas to cover the 
cost of the new boiler he had installed. 
What happened
Mr P has a representative, his son, whos been dealing with this clam on his behalf. 
Mr P has a HomeCare Two policy with British Gas. This covers his boiler, controls and 
central heating including an annual service. In October 2021 Mr P reported a fault with his 
boiler. 
An engineer attended Mr Ps property on 5, 6 and 8 October 2021. The engineer found a gas 
leak which was traced to pipework underneath the floor coming from badly corroded pipes. 
Mr P was advised that the pipes needed a gas re-run. His system was classed as 
immediately dangerous and the gas supply was cut off. He was told that the gas re-run 
wasnt covered under his policy.
Mr Ps representative wasnt happy with this and complained to British Gas. They called him 
to discuss the complaint and agreed to do the re-run of the gas pipes to Mr Ps back boiler 
free of charge. Mr Ps representative advised them that he was looking into replacing the 
boiler.
British Gas called Mr Ps representative again on 26 October 2021 and he advised them that 
he was replacing the boiler. He was offered £500 as a goodwill gesture for the 
inconvenience Mr P suffered and the poor service hed received. Mr Ps representative was 
unhappy with this as he didnt think the offer was enough and he complained to our service.
Mr Ps representative has told us that at the time the gas was cut off Mr P and his wife were 
elderly and vulnerable and required a working heating system in their house. Mr Ps wife had 
to extend her stay in respite care, as she couldnt go home to a house without heating. 
British Gas did provide heaters but this wasnt until 22 October 2021, so they had no heating 
for over two weeks.
He's also told us that he was given conflicting information about whether the work needed 
was covered by Mr Ps policy. The engineers said it wasnt but when he spoke to British Gas 
they said it was. And the engineers missed appointments that had been booked, calling him 
to say the work wasnt covered instead of attending. 
Mr Ps representative arranged for a new boiler to be fitted at his parents home on 24 
October 2021 and wants British Gas to cover the cost of this.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr P was 
given conflicting information about whether the gas re-run British Gas said was required was 
covered by his policy. Having considered Mr Ps policy he agreed that the gas re-run wasnt 
covered. He accepted that Mr P and his wife had suffered significant inconvenience as a 
result of how the claim had been handled. But he felt the £500 and the free gas re-run British 
Gas had offered recognised this. And he didnt think they needed to cover the cost of Mr Ps 
new boiler. 
Mr Ps representative didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said he didnt expect British 
Gas to cover the full cost of the replacement boiler, just the cost of the replacement gas 
supply pipe, as he said this work had been approved, but the engineers didnt want to do it. 
And he thinks that as they offered to do the gas re-run, they should at least cover some of 
the cost given the delays, poor customer service and cancelled appointments.
Our investigator considered what Mr Ps representative had said and responded to him 
saying he was satisfied that the gas re-run wasnt covered, as Mr Ps policy excluded cover 
for work on pipes located under concrete floors. And the gas leak had been traced to an 
underfloor pipe.
Since our investigator provided his opinion weve asked Mr Ps representative to provide 
further information about the impact of how British Gas handled Mr Ps claim.
Hes told us that his mother, whos sadly since died, was very ill in October 2021 and having 
no heating caused a lot of distress and Mr P had to pay additional care home fees, at a time 
when he and his wife were vulnerable and struggling financially and emotionally. He told us 
that British Gas were fully aware of this. 
He's also said that he was definitely told by British Gas that the gas re-run was covered by 
Mr Ps policy. 
And hes told us that he didnt decline the gas re-run. It was taking too long and he was told 
it would be installed as a botch, the easiest route to the boiler for the gas supply, up over 
the ceiling, through door frames and the side of the chimney breast, which wasnt acceptable 
for a private dwelling. He believes that British Gas may have agreed at some point to cover 
the cost of him getting someone to do the gas re-run, but they refused to cover this when he 
had the work done.
British Gas have told us that Mr P was offered a complete gas re-run to the boiler as a 
gesture of goodwill. But they didnt offer to contribute towards the cost of this work being 
completed by a third party. They also told us that they accept they were delays with trying to 
arrange the gas re-run and in delivering heaters to Mr Ps home. But they say this was due 
to difficulties contacting Mr Ps son.
In response to this Mr Ps son has said he has no idea why they would have had any 
difficulty contacting him, as he uses his mobile phone for work, and has it with him at all 
times.
Mr Ps representative has provided copies of the invoices for the gas re-run and new boiler 
he arranged to have installed for his father. These totalled £4,554.00 inclusive of VAT. He 
was charged £2,154 for the gas re-run and £2,400 for the new boiler.
We asked British Gas for their comments on these figures and whether a new boiler would 
have been required if theyd arranged the gas re-run. 
Theyve said that a new boiler wouldnt have been needed but would have been 
recommended due to the age and efficiency of the old one. Theyve described the amount 
charged for the gas re-run as extortionate. They say the re-run required was no more than 
10m, and theyd be charged around £500 for this. So theyre prepared to offer a contribution of £500 towards the cost of the gas re-run.
Weve asked Mr Ps representative whether Mr P wishes to accept the £500 British Gas 
have offered towards the cost of the gas re-run. Hes told us he believes the gas re-run 
should have been covered under Mr Ps policy and the £500 offered is insulting given all his 
parents went through.
The case has now come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy contains a general exclusion that faulty pipes which are buried under concrete 
floors arent covered. British Gas have told us that if theyd arranged the gas re-run a new 
boiler wouldnt have been required, although theyd have recommended one, due to the age 
of the existing boiler.
In those circumstances the cost a replacement boiler wouldnt be covered under Mr Ps 
policy. The policy terms and conditions state the following is covered:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it; and
Its less than seven years old; or
Its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product.
These conditions dont apply to Mr Ps boiler.
I can understand how difficult it must have been for Mr P to have his gas disconnected and 
to be without heating. But his system was unsafe due to badly corroded pipes, so British Gas 
had no choice but to disconnect the gas supply.
But I do think British Gas could have handled things better, especially as Mr P and his wife 
were elderly and not in good health. Theyve acknowledged that they provided poor service 
and offered Mr P £500 for the impact and inconvenience this caused.
I accept what Mr Ps representative has told us about there being a delay in heaters being 
delivered and the impact this had. British Gas have said they had difficulties contacting Mr 
Ps representative to arrange delivery, but they havent been able to provide any details of 
the attempts they made to contact him. So I accept there was an unreasonable delay.
British Gas offered to arrange a gas re-run, even though this wasnt covered by Mr Ps 
policy. But when they spoke to his representative, he told them he was arranging to have a 
new boiler fitted. The representative thinks British Gas may have offered to cover the cost of 
someone else arranged the gas re-run. British Gas have told us that this was never offered, 
and as the representative isnt sure, I accept what theyve said about this.
Mr Ps representative has said he arranged for the new boiler to be fitted as British Gas were 
taking too long to arrange the gas re-run. While I appreciate that he wanted to ensure there 
was a working heating system in his parents home, British Gas didnt have the opportunity 
to arrange this, so I cant say how long this would have taken.Ive considered the £500 British Gas have offered for the poor service and the impact this 
had on Mr P and I think this is reasonable given all the circumstances. Theyve now also 
said that in addition theyre prepared to offer a further £500 contribution towards the cost of 
the gas re-run. This figure is based on what they say it would have cost them to do this work. 
And as the gas re-run isnt covered by Mr Ps policy I think this offer is reasonable, as the full 
cost would have been covered had British Gas done the work themselves. 
And I cant ask them to cover or contribute to the cost of the new boiler, as this isnt covered 
by Mr Ps policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set up above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint about British 
Gas Insurance Limited.
To put things right I require them to pay Mr P the £500 theyve offered for the distress and 
inconvenience their handling of his claim has caused him, if this sum has not already been 
paid. And to pay a further £500 as a contribution towards the cost of the gas re-run that was 
required at his property.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman