DRN-2359164
The complaint
Ms H complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
made against her motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Advantage include their agents. 
What happened
Ms H raised concerns about both the sale of the motor insurance policy and the handling of 
a claim made in March 2020. Advantage are the responsible party for the claim related 
complaint and not the sale of the policy  thats being considered separately. Therefore, Ill 
only be considering Ms Hs complaint about the way Advantage handled the claim. 
In March 2020, Ms H was unfortunately involved in an incident with a third party which 
caused damage to her car. So, she contacted Advantage the following day to make a claim. 
Ms H said the third party drove away from the incident before she was able to obtain their 
details.  
Ms H said she was informed during this call that Advantage would collect her car and carry 
out repairs. However, two days later Ms H received a letter to say her car would likely be a 
total loss, so she needed to send her keys and documentation to Advantages agent. Ms H 
also said the letter referenced her car being destroyed.  
Ms H wasnt happy about this. She contacted Advantage to say she wanted her car repaired, 
not destroyed. Advantage said Ms H could forward repair estimates and theyd consider 
these costs, but Ms H said the local garages to her were closed. 
In April 2020, Ms H and Advantage discussed the claim. Ms H maintained she didnt want 
her car to be deemed a total loss. Advantage said due to the age of her car, mileage and 
repair costs it was very likely her car would be deemed total loss. At this point, a full 
assessment of the market value of Ms Hs car hadnt been carried out. 
Ms H said her car mileage was presented in kilometres, not miles. And that Advantage said 
she was able to withdraw the claim and carry out repairs privately. This is because 
Advantage didnt think shed receive a cash payment given the likely value of her car being 
lower than the policy excess. Advantage also said repairs wouldnt be authorised if they cost 
over a certain percentage of the car value. Advantage said Ms H withdrew the claim. 
Ms H raised a complaint. She wasnt happy Advantages agent had contacted her to say her 
car would be destroyed, and that her car would likely be deemed a total loss  rather than 
repaired. 
Ms H also felt the policy entitled her to a courtesy car and an uninsured driver promise. So, 
whilst she was unable to provide details of the third party, she thought this covered her and 
entitled her to a courtesy car. Ms H also said she had maintenance work carried out to her 
car recently before the incident and wanted these costs reimbursed under the policy. 
Advantage maintained theyd acted fairly by choosing to deem the car a total loss under the 
policy. They said the recent work Ms H had done to her car such as, new tyres, a motor 
starter and battery were maintenance and wouldnt impact the market value of the car. They 
said theyd fairly followed the claims process and didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. As Ms M remained unhappy, she brought a complaint to our service for 
consideration. 
An investigator here looked into the complaint. She considered the points Ms H raised as 
part of the claim handling. She felt Advantage applied the policy terms fairly so she didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms H wasnt happy about this. Whilst she wasnt happy with the overall claim handling, she 
said her main concerns related to the sale of the policy. However, Ms H requested that an 
ombudsman considers her complaint about the claim handling, so its now been passed to 
me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms H has made several complaint points about the claim handling, Ive separated these 
out and used headings for ease of reading, firstly starting with the claim settlement. 
Whether Advantage acted fairly when deciding how to settle the claim
My starting point here is Ms Hs policy. This covers her for damage caused to her car 
following an incident. The policy sets out how Advantage will settle a claim, which says: 
Youre covered for an accident, vandalism and malicious damage 
If your Car is damaged or lost because of an accident, vandalism or malicious 
damage there are three ways your Policy can help you get back on the road again. 
Your Insurer will do one of the following: 
Pay for any necessary repairs 
Replace your Car
Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss. 
This means Advantage are entitled to choose how they decide to settle a claim. In this case, 
they said Ms Hs car would most likely be deemed a total loss due to the age of the car, the 
mileage and the repair costs involved which their engineer felt would be more than the value 
of the car. 
The policy defines a total loss as: 
If your Car cant be repaired or the costs of repair is uneconomical, your Car will be 
declared a total loss. This is commonly called a write-off. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Advantage acted unfairly by choosing to settle the 
claim by deeming the car a total loss under the policy. Advantage told Ms H that due to the 
age of her car and policy excess, it might mean that she wouldnt receive a cash settlement 
under the policy. I can see some options were provided to Ms H, and that Advantage said 
she withdrew her claim. A letter was sent to Ms H on 19 May 2020 to say that Advantage closed the claim, but they 
could reopen it later. The letter also said her no claims discount hadnt been affected by the 
incident. 
Because she withdrew the claim, Advantage didnt carry out a full market value assessment 
of Ms Hs car. I understand from the claim notes this still hasnt been done. Advantage told 
Ms H they could reopen the claim if she wishes to do so. I think Advantages offer to reopen 
the claim should Ms H request this is fair. 
I can see from the notes that Ms H asked Advantage to cover the costs of maintenance work 
shed previously had done to her car. She wanted the costs of fitting new tyres, a battery and 
motor starter covered under the policy. 
These works were carried out to maintain the car and keep it in roadworthy condition which 
every motor insurance policyholder is legally required to do. And so, Im unable to require 
Advantage to reimburse these costs under the policy. I should also explain that generally 
these works wouldnt increase the value of a car. This is because these works in their very 
nature are to ensure a car is kept roadworthy and maintained. 
Overall, I think Advantages decision to treat Ms Hs car as a total loss was reasonable. 
The letter requesting Ms Hs keys and documents 
Ms H also raised concerns about the letter she received two days after being told Advantage 
would collect her car and carry out repairs. I can appreciate this wouldve caused Ms H a lot 
of worry and concern given she said shed previously been told it would be repaired. I can 
see from the claim notes that once Ms H discussed this with Advantage, the request for keys 
and documentation was cancelled. So, Ms Hs car wasnt collected and destroyed by 
Advantage. 
Advantage says the letter was sent as they thought Ms Hs car would likely be written off. 
The letter also said if Ms H was still in the process of agreeing a valuation, then Advantage 
would be in touch to discuss this over the next few days. 
Ive given a lot of thought to this part of Ms Hs complaint. Im satisfied it was sent given 
Advantage chose to settle Ms Hs claim as a total loss. As above, this is something theyre 
entitled to do under the policy. What didnt follow here was an assessment on the market 
value of Ms Hs car. Which, as above, I understand still hasnt been considered further. 
Ms H didnt have access to a courtesy car 
Ms H also complained about not receiving use of a courtesy car as part of the claim. Ive 
also considered this as part of the claim handling. The policy does entitle Ms H to a courtesy 
car in certain circumstances. But the policy also says on page 4 that: 
You wont be eligible for a courtesy car if your Car is stolen or considered to be a 
Total Loss/write-off 
I accept here that Ms H disagreed with Advantages decision to deem her car a total loss. 
But based on the above, as Im satisfied Advantage acted fairly by deciding to settle the 
claim as a total loss, the policy didnt entitle Ms H to a courtesy car. 
The uninsured driver promise under the policyThere is another element of the policy Ms H complained about, which is the uninsured driver 
promise. I note Ms H said she was unable to provide Advantage with details of the third party 
as they drove away following the incident. But Ms H said Advantage shouldve been able to 
locate the third party given the damage was most likely substantial and the third party 
wouldve also needed to raise a claim. 
Ive looked at the policy terms which say: 
Your insurer promises that if youre involved in an accident that isnt your fault and 
the driver of the vehicle that hits you doesnt have motor insurance: 
You wont lose your no claims discount
You wont have to pay any Excess/es. 
But the policy also says: 
To benefit from this promise you must send us the make, model and registration 
number of the vehicle that caused damage to your Car and, when possible, tell us 
the other drivers name and address. 
The circumstances Ms H explained here are extremely unfortunate. She said she was hit by 
a third party who then proceeded to drive away from the incident. This means she was 
unable to provide Advantage with the details they required under this part of the policy. And 
so, whilst I do sympathise with Ms Hs situation, Im unable to say here that Advantage acted 
unfairly. 
Summary 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Ms H. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve her claim related dispute with Advantage  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman