DRN-3030897
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001.  Mrs C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
As I said above, the PPI was sold to Mrs C in 2001. It looks as though she ran into some 
financial difficulties shortly after she took the credit card out. I say this because I can see 
there was an outstanding balance on her account that Lloyds had written off in 2004. 
Practically what that means is that although Mrs C still owed Lloyds some money, it wasnt 
chasing her for that outstanding sum. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought an offer Lloyds made 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mrs C paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset in order to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
The parties agree that the cover was sold to Mrs C at the same time as she applied for her 
credit card in a Lloyds branch. I cant know what was said during that face to face meeting. 
So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mrs C 
remembers about it. And Ive also considered the documentary evidence thats available 
from the time. 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether Lloyds made it clear to Mrs C that the PPI was 
optional and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Looking at the application 
form, I can see Mrs C would have been presented with two equally prominent boxes to 
complete about PPI  one to say she wanted a policy, and another to say she did not. Mrs C 
has marked the box to say she wanted cover. If she didnt want it, I think it would have been 
clear she just had to tick the no box. I can see the information about PPI comes within a 
section of the application form headed optional features. So it seems to me most likely Mrs 
C knew PPI was separate to her credit card and that she didnt have to take it out if she 
didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale, so that means Lloyds had to check whether the PPI was 
right for Mrs C. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought carefully about what we know about Mrs 
Cs personal circumstances at the point of sale. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 5% of Mrs Cs credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was out of work because of sickness 
or if she was made redundant. Each claim could have lasted for up to 12 months. However, I 
understand Mrs C didnt think shed have been entitled to any contractual sick pay from her 
employer. And she didnt have any other means with which to meet her repayments if she 
wasnt working. In those circumstances, I can see how PPI could have been useful to Mrs C 
if she couldnt work. 
I dont think any of the exclusions or limitations to the policy would have affected Mrs C. I 
understand she had broken a bone in 1991, which was 10 years before the cover was sold. I 
havent been told about any ongoing difficulties that broken bone caused her. So I cant see 
this previous medical condition made the policy unsuitable. Although it was argued on Mrs 
Cs behalf that limitations around back and mental health conditions made this policy 
unsuitable, Im satisfied there were no such restrictions on the cover. I havent seen anything 
unusual about her employment circumstances that would have stopped her from being able 
to make a successful claim if she needed to. And the evidence before me doesnt suggest 
the policy was unaffordable at the point of sale. Overall, I think Lloyds recommendation 
probably was suitable for Mrs Cs circumstances. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mrs C enough information about the cover so she could 
decide whether it was a good fit for her needs. I accept its possible the information Lloyds 
gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive found that she 
chose to take the policy out, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mrs C as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what she 
reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also looks like it 
was affordable, so it seems like it could have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs C would have declined the cover had Lloyds given her more 
or better information about it. Overall, I consider that Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the point of sale. I also think the 
policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Whilst I appreciate that the outstanding balance on Mrs Cs account was written off in 2004, 
there was still an outstanding balance on her account in 2008. With that in mind, Im satisfied 
Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received. However, Im also satisfied that 
Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs C about the high levels of commission and profit share she paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipLloyds and Mrs C was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs C because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mrs C should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mrs C about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that these 
things meant the policy was poor value and I should find that Mrs C wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had she known about the level of commission. It was further submitted that Mrs C 
should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of commission 
before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.  I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt have 
been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the reasons Ive 
given above. I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mrs C paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs C 
with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss offer to pay an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mrs C an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman