DRN-2385325
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wrongly charged 
him for damage and other matters when he returned a car at the end of a hire purchase 
agreement. He also complains about the way an inspection of the car was handled.   
What happened
In December 2016 Mr Y took a car on a three-year hire purchase agreement from MBFS. 
The agreement required Mr Y to return the car in good condition. It also said that Mr Y would 
have to pay excess mileage over 8,000 miles a year or 24,000 miles in total.  
Shortly before the agreement came to an end, MBFS arranged for an inspection to be 
carried out by British Car Auctions (BCA) at Mr Ys home. The BCA inspector noted some 
areas where he said he had noticed damage, which he mentioned to Mr Y. Following a 
disagreement, the inspection was not completed at that time and had to be finished after the 
car had been returned. 
When the inspection was completed, the report prepared as a result recorded a number of 
issues. In summary, these were:
damage to wheels;
damage to one tyre;
a scratch to the front bumper;
an insecure bumper grill;
dents to two doors and rear bumper;
a scratch to a door; 
missing registration documents; 
excess mileage; and 
dirty exterior.
MBFS sent Mr Y an invoice for nearly £2,500, including over £600 for excess mileage. Mr Y 
did not believe he had been treated fairly and referred the case to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but indicated initially that he thought 
MBFS had treated Mr Y fairly. He considered all the available evidence about the damage 
that had been listed and compared that evidence with both published British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVLRA) guidelines and MBFSs own return standards. The 
investigator noted that this service generally applies BVLRA guidelines, which tend to be 
less onerous on customers. 
He concluded that the images of the car demonstrated the damage that had been described 
in the report and for which MBFS had added charges. 
The investigator was also satisfied that the excess mileage charge had been fairly applied in 
line with the hire purchase agreement. 
Having initially said that MBFS was entitled to charge Mr Y for cleaning the car and for 
missing documents, the investigator revised his view on those items. MBFS had not in fact 
charged for a missing registration document, and the investigator accepted too that the car 
had not been unreasonably dirty when it was returned; MBFS agreed to waive that part of 
the charge. Mr Y did not however feel that this concession was enough and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first with the inspection of the car carried out, but not completed, at Mr Ys home. 
Mr Y supplied some camera footage of the visit, but it seems that discussions were already 
quite heated by the time it starts. It shows that the inspector did not feel able to complete his 
inspection and that he left without doing so, leaving the cars key on its roof. Mr Y followed 
him along the street, continuing to film. I dont believe however that anything in that footage 
shows the inspector acting unreasonably or in a discriminatory manner towards Mr S. In the 
circumstances, I do not believe that I can fairly conclude that Mr S was treated unfairly. 
As far as the damage to the car is concerned, I have little to add to what the investigator 
said. He considered carefully the damage described and the evidence of it, before 
comparing it against the relevant guidelines. Like the adjudicator, Im satisfied that MBFS 
was within its rights to levy charges for damage in the way it did. 
Mr Y says he returned the cars V5 registration document. MBFS says he did not, but it 
seems that he may have returned the wrong part to the DVLA. However, MBFS has not 
charged for this, so I make no further comment. 
The cars odometer reading on return was over 32,700 miles, against an allowance of 
24,000 over the hire purchase agreement. Under the hire purchase agreement, excess 
mileage was due at 6p per mile plus VAT. Im satisfied that MBFS made this charge in line 
with the agreement. 
MBFS was entitled to charge for cleaning the car if it was so dirty that a proper inspection 
could not be carried out. Mr Y submitted evidence of the cars condition when he returned it. 
The pictures are not clear enough to show whether the car was spotless, but it was certainly 
clean enough that an inspection for damage could be made.   
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I think a fair resolution in this case would be for MBFS to remove the 
cleaning fee from the additional charges it made on the return of the car  as I note it has 
already offered to do. I do not however propose to require it do any more to resolve Mr Ys 
complaint.    My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
should remove any cleaning charges from any final invoice submitted to Mr Y and, to the 
extent he has already paid them, reimburse any such cleaning charges.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman