DRN-4325112
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a home
emergency claim.
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agent.
Mr B is being represented on this complaint, any reference to him includes the comments of
his representative.
What happened
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited is the underwriter of Mr Bs home insurance
policy which includes home emergency cover.
In mid-January 2023, Mr B reported to Admiral that his boiler had broken down and
he was without heating and hot water.
An engineer attended a few days later who said multiple parts needed to be ordered
to repair Mr Bs boiler.
On 26 January, Admiral discussed with Mr B that hed be required to contribute to the
cost of the parts as the order exceeded the policy limit of £500. It also explained to
Mr B that he could get a repair from the manufacturer of his boiler and that Admiral
would cover the cost of doing so. Mr Bs preference was for Admiral to order the
parts and carry out the repair and for him to contribute towards the cost of doing so.
Mr B was initially told the ordered parts would arrive by the end of January, but this 
was delayed twice until 20 February 2023.
Having been without heating or hot water for a month, Mr B replaced the boiler at a
cost to himself.
Unhappy with how his claim had progressed, Mr B complained to Admiral.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for the delays in 
sourcing the necessary parts.
Unhappy, Mr B brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and
upheld it. Whilst she didnt think Admiral needed to contribute to the cost of Mr B
replacing his boiler, she said it should pay £200 compensation to recognise the
difficulties hed experienced due to Admirals handling of the claim.
Admiral accepted the Investigators findings, but Mr B disagreed. And so, the
complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I considered it but didnt 
think the outcome our Investigator had reached was fair in the circumstances, and 
so, I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to direct Admiral to pay Mr B £500 as a contribution towards the
cost of replacing his boiler along with £200 compensation to recognise the difficulties he
experienced during the claim. And Ill explain why I consider this to be a fair outcome.
Contributing to the cost of Mr Bs replacement boiler
Our Investigator has explained the policy terms and conditions only required Admiral to
provide a temporary repair in an emergency situation and that as replacing the boiler
provided a permanent fix, Admiral wasnt required to contribute to the cost of it. But Im not
persuaded thats the fair outcome here.
Admirals responsibility as an insurer is to progress claims promptly. And under the policy its
obligation was to provide a temporary repair to Mr Bs boiler. Given it was a home
emergency claim, its reasonable for Mr B to have expected a timely resolution  but that
didnt happen here.
Whilst I acknowledge the claim was drawn out because of delays with Admirals chosen
supplier providing the necessary parts, I dont consider it reasonable to expect a consumer 
who is without hot water or heating  to wait more than a month for a part to be sourced.
Especially when others residing in the property have health conditions which are
exacerbated by cold temperatures.
The terms and conditions dont stipulate that Admiral will use a specific supplier, and so,
when Mr B provided information which showed he could source the necessary part from
another supplier, Id have expected Admiral to consider this as a viable option, but I cant
see thats happened here.
Ive seen claim notes which state Admiral couldnt guarantee the part would arrive and that
even if it did, it might not provide a suitable repair. So, it said Mr B could contact the
manufacturer of the boiler to complete the repair (which Admiral would pay for) or he could
replace his boiler. Mr B has said he looked into having the manufacturer attend but that
based on the availability of its engineers it didnt seem that option would provide a quicker
resolution at the time.
Having waited over a month for the part  and with no guarantee it wouldnt be further
delayed  I consider it reasonable that Mr B felt he had no option but to replace his boiler.
And whilst the policy doesnt cover permanent repairs, I consider it fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint that Admiral  having not fulfilled its obligation  contribute
to the cost of Mr B replacing his boiler. As the policy limit in respect of home emergency
claims is £500, I consider a payment of this amount to be fair in the circumstances.
Compensation
Understandably, being without heating and hot water during the winter months is a stressful
situation for anyone, and I know from reading Mr Bs testimony, that this was compounded
by worry about his wifes health condition which worsens in cold temperatures.
This, coupled with the fact Mr B had to spend time chasing Admiral for updates  by phone
and email  no doubt, added to what was a difficult situation. Having been told parts wouldbe delivered and appointments scheduled, only for these to be cancelled at short notice
understandably caused avoidable inconvenience and frustration for him.
And so, I agree with our Investigator that Admiral needs to recognise the difficulties Mr B
experienced and considering the above, Im satisfied £200 compensation is fair in the
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. And so, for the reasons set out in that 
decision, Im upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to 
pay Mr B:
£500 towards the cost of replacing his boiler (subject to proof of payment). Simple 
interest at 8% a year should be added from the date Mr B made the payment to the 
date Admiral pay him.  
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Admiral must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation 
from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman