DRN-3518175
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited treated him unfairly in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for 
their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr B had a criminal conviction dating from December 2018 for the offence of driving with 
excess alcohol.
For the year from mid-October 2021, he went online and took out an Aviva online policy. The 
premium was about £300.00.
Aviva asked for some documents. Mr B didnt send them, so Aviva gave notice to cancel the 
policy. The cancellation took effect in mid-December 2021 and Aviva refunded part of the 
premium.
In early 2022, Mr B provided documents and Aviva reinstated the policy. In late February 
2022, Aviva treated the policy as void, saying that Mr B had made a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation. It referred to Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA).
Mr B complained to Aviva that it had treated him unfairly. By a final response dated early 
March 2022, Aviva turned down that complaint. Mr B brought his complaint to us without 
delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Aviva had acted unreasonably or unfairly.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The original conviction is spent after 5 years.
There was no malicious intent.
The Aviva system did not show the documents. 
He was unable to speak to anyone at Aviva.
Had he been able to, he would have cancelled this policy for a completely different 
reason of multi car insurance.
He did not receive two letters until New Years Eve.
A later letter stated that if he submitted documents, Aviva would" remove the flag. 
Had this statement not been made, he would not have provided the documents. 
Aviva backtracked on that statement. 
His details have been registered on the SIRA database for fraudulent activity. He 
asks whether this SIRA database is lifelong and not for a limited period of time.
He should not be convicted for life. This will have a significant impact on his mental 
health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr Bs driving licence details. They say that the conviction expires in April 2029.
CIDRA says a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a policy.
Mr B went online and applied for an online policy. Ive seen a statement of fact document. It 
incorrectly recorded that Mr B had no motoring convictions in the past five years. So Im 
satisfied that Aviva had asked Mr B a clear question whether he had any motoring 
convictions in the past five years. And he had answered that he hadnt. That wasnt a correct 
answer. Mr B had a more recent conviction for drink driving.
Such a conviction is not something that he was likely to have forgotten. So I dont consider 
that Mr B took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out the policy. 
I accept Avivas evidence that it wouldnt have issued a policy for Mr B with a disclosed 
conviction for drink driving. So the misrepresentation made a difference. It was a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA.
As Aviva wouldnt have offered cover, CIDRA entitled Aviva to treat the policy as void.
Im satisfied that Aviva sent Mr B a welcome letter in mid-October 2021 enclosing the 
statement of fact. I accept Avivas statement that the documents were also available in his  
online account.
Im satisfied that Aviva sent Mr B an email and a letter in late November 2021, asking for the 
details of his driving licence. The letter included the following:
We are within our rights to void, cancel or apply an additional premium to your policy 
if you have withheld any information which is material to our assessment of whether 
to provide insurance and what premium to charge. 
Mr B has said that he contacted Aviva to try to cancel the policy. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to support that.
Im satisfied that Aviva sent an email and a letter on 8 December 2021, saying that the policy 
had been cancelled. Mr B says that he noticed the refund in mid-December 2021 and contacted Aviva. He says 
he didnt see any of the letters until the end of the year. But I find it likely that Aviva posted 
the letters on or their respective dates.
Ive noted Avivas letter dated mid-January 2022. It included the following:
The cancellation of this policy does need to be disclosed to any current or future 
insurers as a policy cancelled by an insurer. In order for this flag to be removed from 
your file we will require the full list of requested documents to be sent to us along with 
answers to the questions previously asked. You can find this information on the 
document sent to you on 30/11/2021."  
So I can see why Mr B decided to send Aviva the information including his driving licence 
details. But I consider that, when it wrote that letter, Aviva was still entitled to believe Mr B 
had no conviction.  
When it found out about the conviction, CIDRA entitled Aviva to treat the policy as void. I 
dont find that Aviva treated Mr B unfairly by taking that step.
Aviva regarded Mr Bs incorrect answer as not merely a careless misrepresentation but a 
reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. I dont consider that this was unfair or 
unreasonable in the context of a policy taken out only about three years after the conviction.
CIDRA will continue to say that a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a policy. Most insurers will ask Mr B whether he has 
ever had insurance cancelled or declared void. He must take care to give a correct answer.
As that requirement has no time limit, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to 
remove the information from the database after a certain time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman