DRN-2725464
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. The policy was sold by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mrs A, on her own behalf and for her late husband Mr F, says NatWest mis-sold them the 
PPI. The policy covered both Mr F and Mrs A. They took out the policy when they were re-
mortgaging their home with NatWest. It cost £29.70 a month and would have provided cover 
up to £580 a month if a successful claim was made.
Prior to referring their complaint to our Service, a partial refund of 50% of the PPI premiums 
that had been paid was made. Thats because NatWest upheld the complaint about the sale 
of the PPI to Mrs F, because of her circumstances at the time of sale. My decision will only 
deal with the sale of PPI to Mr F, but given that Mr F and Mrs A took the same policy out at 
the same time, for ease, Ill refer to both Mr F and Mrs A together in parts of my decision. But 
Im not making any finding, for example, on the suitability of the PPI for Mrs A as NatWest 
have already put her back in the position shed be in if shed never taken out PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr F and Mrs As case. 
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold to Mr F because: 
 Mrs A says her late husband didnt realise they had the PPI  and that as soon as he did 
he cancelled the policy. Ive looked carefully at the paperwork from the time, and Ive seen 
an application form for the PPI, which included a direct debit form thats been signed by Mr F 
and Mrs A. The form gave Mr F and Mrs A the option of saying they didnt want the PPI, so I 
think it was clear they didnt have to have it. They also had the choice to cover one or both of 
them and chose joint cover. Given that Mr F and Mrs A were making decisions about the 
type and amount of cover they wanted at the time and signed to confirm these, I cant agree 
Mr F didnt realise hed bought it. I do of course accept he might have forgotten about it over 
the following years.
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr F and Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why Mrs A may not remember this. 
 NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F and Mrs A so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr F got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
 Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI alongside Mrs A - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. Specifically for Mr F (as Ive explained above), based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. Ive also thought about what Mrs A has said about Mr Fs work related benefits. 
But this PPI policy could have paid out for up to 12 months per claim, and we dont know 
how long Mr Fs sick pay would have lasted. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr F off taking out the cover. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr F, to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman