DRN-3976531
The complaint
Mr I complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money he lost after he fell victim to 
an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties and have been 
laid out in detail in our Investigators view, so I wont repeat them all here. But, in summary, I 
understand them to be as follows.
Mr I has explained that, in August 2022, he made a number of payments to somebody, to 
help him optimise sales through an online store. Unknown to him at the time he was dealing 
with a fraudster and had sent payments to an account that the fraudster controlled.
A breakdown of the payments Mr I made from his Wise account, totalling £1,410, is detailed 
below;
3 August 2022 £145
4 August 2022 £145
8 August 2022 £330
14 August 2022 £360
30 August 2022 £430
Mr I has said he realised hed been scammed after the fraudster blocked him. He reported 
the matter to Wise. Wise looked into Mr Is complaint and issued its final response on 30 
September 2022 not upholding the complaint. In summary it said that while it sympathised 
that Mr I had lost this money, it had completed the transfers as directed by Mr I and had 
fulfilled its contractual obligations.
Unhappy with Wises response, Mr I brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into Mr Is complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, our Investigator 
didnt think the payments Mr I made would have appeared so unusual or suspicious to Wise 
that it ought to have been on notice that there was a risk fraud was taking place. Our 
Investigator added that he didnt think there was a realistic chance that Wise would have 
been able to recover any of the money he lost from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which 
the payments were made).
Mr I disagreed with our Investigators view. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr I authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Wise should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Payment Service Providers have a difficult balance to strike in fulfilling its obligation to 
process payments in line with its customers instruction against identifying, and intervening 
in, potentially fraudulent payments.
In the circumstances of this case I can see that Mr I opened his Wise account on the same 
day the first disputed payment was made. The account was opened for the purpose of 
making these payments and the disputed transactions were the only payments made from 
the account. This meant that Wise had no previous history on Mr Is account that allowed it 
to assess if the payments were unusual or out of character in comparison to any account 
history. 
Looking at the payments Mr I made, I dont think there was anything about them that would 
have appeared so suspicious to Wise, that I could fairly and reasonably have expected it to 
have been concerned that Mr I may have been at risk of financial harm. Or for it to have 
foreseen that he may have been at risk of falling victim to a fraud. With this in mind, I dont 
think Wise made an error in allowing the payments to be progressed, or missed an 
opportunity to prevent the fraud.
Finally, I can see that Wise did contact the receiving bank, but it didnt do this until some 
time after Mr I had reported the scam to it. While this is well beyond the time Id reasonably 
expect a business to attempt to recover the funds, I dont think its more likely than not that 
this made a difference in the circumstances of Mr Is complaint.
Wise is reliant upon the international bank choosing to return the funds. It cant require or 
force them to and unfortunately the bank wasnt able to recover the money. And sadly, it is 
quite typical with these types of scams for fraudsters to move money away from the 
beneficiary account, straight after the payments are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts 
at this type of recovery.
Its very unfortunate Mr I has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably say Wise should have done more to prevent Mr I from losing this money. 
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Wise to refund the loss.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman