DRN-2529776
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) misinformed her of the status 
of her account and unfairly sold it on to a debt collection agency.
What happened
Mrs B held a credit card with Capital One that had included a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. Following a complaint about this, Capital One wrote to her to say she was due 
a sum of around £425 which it used against an outstanding balance on her account. Within 
this letter it said the account in question was closed and partially settled with an outstanding 
balance which it was no longer requesting any further payments for. 
Mrs B took this to mean she didnt have to make any payments to the remaining debt. But 
Capital One has since explained the information it gave about the account was incorrect. 
And instead there was still a balance that she owed. It says it sent statements to Mrs B 
showing what was owed after this, and asked her to arrange a payment plan. And as it didnt 
hear from her it sold the debt to a debt collection company (Company A) in February 2019.
Mrs B was contacted by Company A so she complained to Capital One. It apologised for the 
incorrect information in the letter, but said no arrangement had been made by Mrs B to settle 
the remaining debt. Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He 
acknowledged the incorrect information in the letter, but Mrs B shouldve been aware of what 
was left to pay by the statements being sent. As the amount has remained the same, he 
didnt think Mrs B had been financially impacted by its error. 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint. She said she hadnt received 
any statements from Capital One, and from what she knew, the account had been settled 
and she didnt owe anything further. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
As part of her complaint, Mrs B has raised concerns about irresponsible lending. These 
points have already been considered by this service so Im not going to revisit them again 
within this decision. 
Its not in dispute that Capital Ones letter of February 2018 incorrectly advised Mrs B that 
the account had been settled. But this wasnt the case and there was an outstanding 
balance owed by Mrs B, which she remains liable for. 
Ive seen Capital One sent statements to Mrs B in 2018 and 2019 after it gave her the 
incorrect information. Shes said she never received these statements, but they were 
correctly addressed and dated, and sent to the same address as the previous letter she did 
receive. So Im satisfied Capital One did send them. And I wouldnt expect it to take 
responsibility for any post issues Mrs B may have experienced. 
I understand Mrs B is frustrated after being given incorrect information. But the error simply 
doesnt change facts of the situation or what she owed. And from what Ive been provided, 
Mrs B is still responsible for this outstanding debt. As it didnt hear from her it sold the debt to 
Company A. Overall, while I recognise Capital One made a mistake, Im satisfied its apology 
is sufficient and this hasnt disadvantaged Mrs B. It follows Im not asking it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman