DRN-3376118
The complaint
Mr O feels that Sainsburys Bank Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to the purchase of a 
camera.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr O purchased from a Merchant a camera using his credit card with 
Sainsburys to pay for it. Mr O says that in September 2019 the flash was stuck and had 
stopped working so he went to the merchant to claim on the warranty. The merchant said Mr 
O only had a twelve-month warranty and thus was out of time for free repairs. But Mr O 
disagreed and said that he actually had a twenty-four-month warranty. But the merchant 
disagreed. So Mr O complained to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys looked into the matter and initially felt that the appropriate relationship under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 to make it potentially liable wasnt in place. Mr O disagreed and 
brought his complaint to this service.
After some to and fro our Investigator upheld Mr Os complaint and said that as Mr O had 
the camera repaired (by the manufacturer) and should have been able to have the camera 
repaired under the warranty, then Sainsburys should cover the cost of the repair done.
Sainsburys disagreed and pointed to the wording of the warranty and said it felt it was only 
twelve months long. It noted that the Merchant had said this was the case as well. So it 
didnt feel that it had done anything wrong and so it didnt have any more to do. So it asked 
for a decision.
In February of this year I issued a provisional decision which stated that I felt that DCS was 
intact but that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ive had responses from both Sainsburys 
and Mr O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the responses to my provisional decision and Im not persuaded that I 
should depart from that position I set out. Accordingly I have interwoven my positions on 
those arguments into this decision at the appropriate points to ensure clarity in overall 
position.
Mr O can bring a claim under Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
general effect of section 75 is that if Mr O has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can also bring that claim against the 
creditor (Sainsburys here) provided certain conditions are met.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 also implies terms into the contract including that the 
camera will be of satisfactory quality. Whats satisfactory is, is measured by what a 
reasonable person would consider as satisfactory considering any description of the goods, 
the price, and other relevant circumstances.  Under this legislation, the customer is 
potentially entitled to redress if the camera is not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
As I see it, there are the following broad issues I need to address, the Debtor, Creditor, 
Supplier relationship (often shortened to DCS), whether the camera was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale, and whether the warranty should cover the camera repair when 
Mr O raised this issue with the Merchant.
DCS
I can see Sainsburys position on DCS in its original investigation into this complaint. I think it 
worth clarifying matters on this important issue. And to do this we need to consider how this 
issue has evolved since the originating legislation.
Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the Creditor) and the cardholder (the Debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the Debtor from 
Suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the Creditor and the Supplier under which the Supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the Supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the Debtor and the Supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
And accordingly this three-way relationship is often referred to as DCS as it represents the 
interrelationships between Debtor (Mr O), Creditor (Sainsburys) and Supplier (the Merchant 
as Ive referred to it as in this decision).
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party 
relationships where instead of the agreement being between the card issuer and the 
supplier, there were two agreements which were:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the Creditor, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the Creditor undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of S75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case). The 
Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which S75 had
been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regardthem as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Os case. In order for S75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between Sainsburys and the Merchant (Supplier) to finance 
transactions between Sainsburys cardholders and the Merchant. Its clear that there was no 
direct arrangement between them, but this isnt necessarily fatal to the application of S75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers (the Merchant 
here) in the four-party situation. She said that the use of the word showed a deliberate 
intention on the part of the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be 
contrasted with the word agreement. In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that 
arrangements should be given a narrower meaning that took the four-party structure outside 
the definition. But the Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been 
used to embrace a wide range of commercial structures having substantially the same effect. 
They held it was difficult to resist the conclusion that such arrangements existed between 
credit card issuers and suppliers who agreed to accept their cards, and stated;
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Accordingly to arrive at a fair outcome I need to stand back and consider the whole network 
of arrangements that were involved in Mr Os transaction and, in particular, what the roles 
were of the other parties involved who werent the Debtor (Mr O), the Creditor (Sainsburys) 
and the Supplier (the Merchant).
Ive considered the card network rules regarding the scheme it operates which was used in 
this transaction. I note from its rules it describes a number of parties which may be involved 
in transactions and explains how it treats them and what their obligations are in relation to 
the network and other parties.
Is the DCS chain broken?
So after initially agreeing with Sainsburys, our Investigator looked into the transaction more 
closely and considered the presence of the third party involved in the transaction. Ill call this 
party Firm P. Our investigator contacted Firm P and asked it what its role was in the 
transaction. Firm P responded and has been forthcoming in its role within this transaction 
and more broadly about the services it provides. Firm P has said it only provided an express 
checkout service, in essence it acted simply as a Payment Processor in this transaction. 
Essentially this means that the Supplier / Merchant had outsourced its payment processing 
to Firm P. Firm P has an agreement with the Merchant around the service it provided including that all applicable card network rules must be complied with. And Ive considered 
the network rules applicable here and this need to comply with the network rules is mirrored 
within those. I should add that Firm P historically was well known for being an E-Money 
provider, but it also offers a broad range of services including payment processing.
It may be that in this case there was a Merchant Acquirer in the transaction. But whether 
there was a four-party arrangement here or indeed a five-party arrangement present in Mr 
Os case, either way Im not persuaded DCS is broken here and I shall now explain why.
The High Court considered S75 in the case of Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman case). In this case the 
High Court held that its the nature of the role that each party plays and the nexus between 
the Supplier (Merchant here) and the Creditor (Sainsburys) thats the relevant consideration. 
I do not propose to recount all the details of the case here. However I would note the 
following: the Truman case involved the court considering a five-party structure in which the 
fifth party, had no contractual or other direct relationship with the relevant scheme. But it was 
held that it did not matter that the card issuers had no direct contractual or other relationship 
with the fifth party or that the card issuers had no idea of the existence of the fifth party. 
There still existed arrangements sufficient for the requisite DCS link which were not too 
tenuous.
In Mr Os case, I think there are stronger indications of relevant arrangements than those in
the Truman case given that Firm P (and any Merchant Acquirer present) were 
independently, specifically, and publicly in the commercial enterprise of processing or 
facilitating financial transactions including the transaction in this case. After all, in the 
Truman case one of the connecting parties was a solicitors firm who simply had the facilities 
to enable the transaction. The solicitors acted for the car company in the Truman case and 
provided a variety of legal services to them. The solicitors were only part of the transaction 
chain in the Truman case because it had a machine to take the payment and an 
arrangement to do so. Their primary commercial offering was legal services, it was not in the 
commercial enterprise of providing financial transactional services. 
Here Firm P (and any Merchant Acquirer present) is specifically and publicly in the business 
of providing financial transactional services. The transactional services provided here by 
these parties are in effect those that have been outsourced to them by the parties involved 
here as already established in the case of Firm P. And clearly the network in this case had 
arrangements with Firm P (and any Merchant Acquirer) and Sainsburys would be able to 
know of the parties within the arrangement here and the respective offerings provided prior 
to the transaction in this case by dint of Firm P and any Merchant Acquirer being users of the 
network used here.
I would also note that both Sainsburys and the Merchant undoubtedly benefit commercially
from the involvement of the other, through the intermediations of Firm P (and any Merchant 
Acquirer present), in a way that makes it possible to regard them as in something akin to a 
joint venture. Specifically, by financing purchases from the Merchant, Sainsburys are able to 
lend money to their customer (Mr O) and make interest and/or other charges for that service, 
whilst the Merchant is able to obtain payments from Sainsburys credit card holders and so 
benefit from the credit Sainsburys extended (albeit indirectly).
So all in all Ive not seen any persuasive evidence at this stage that the services provided by 
Firm P and any merchant acquirer in this case broke the DCS chain. Im also satisfied this 
transaction fits within the financial limits set out in relation to S75 claims as described in the 
Act. Accordingly Im satisfied the DCS chain is intact and a S75 claim can be successful if 
the other requirements are made out.I note that Sainsburys has in response to my provisional decision accepted my stance on 
DCS and has said it will learn from this decision in this regard. I am glad to see this. Mr O 
who is clearly knowledgeable on such matters and argued on this point originally will also be 
pleased.
Satisfactory Quality
I now turn to Mr Os arguments about whether the camera was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. In essence he says that it was not of satisfactory quality and then points to 
specific issues such as it being nor fit for purpose, not free from minor defects and not 
durable. 
It is clear that Mr O didnt raise these issues at the point of sale, indeed not for over a year 
after the sale. Accordingly its our approach that the onus is on Mr O to demonstrate that the 
camera was not of satisfactory quality rather than for Sainsburys to show it was of 
satisfactory quality. Mr O has supplied the repair report that was issued when the 
manufacturer repaired the camera dated September 2019. It says:
Top Cover Flash not Popping-Up  Sticky substance on Top Cover and Bottom Cover.
Re-examined unit. Replaced Top cover assembly. Removed sticky substance from unit.
Recalibrated, service, cleaned, checked and tested.
So it is clear that when Mr O presented the camera to the manufacturer for repair it identified 
a sticky substance on the top cover which it then had to clean and replace. This report 
doesnt describe any inherent defect with the camera nor illustrate that the camera was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point when Mr O purchased it. Nor does it give support to Mr Os 
assertion that the camera wasnt durable or not fit for purpose. The significant issue that the 
report points to was the sticky substance present on the camera and that various parts of 
the camera were cleaned during the repair. 
As Mr O didnt raise issues with the camera for so long after purchase nor give any 
persuasive account of issues found at purchase I think it likely that issues didnt arise until 
nearer when he complained about it rather than present when he bought it. And I think it 
likely that had the camera had the sticky substance attached when he bought it hed have 
complained about it then. 
So it seems more likely to me that the sticky substance became attached to the camera 
after he received it. And I note Mr Os comment to the Merchant that the issue with the flash 
was that it was refusing to pop up. So it seems to me at least possible that the reason the 
flash wasnt popping up was due to the sticky substance identified in the proximity of flash by 
the manufacturer at the time of the repair. And it seems clear from the repair that the sticky 
substance was not part of the camera but rather an alien substance attached to it sometime 
after purchase.
It is also of note that Mr O said in his email dated 23 September 2019 that if the Merchant 
didnt comply he would organise for the manufacturer to repair it and recover the cost from 
your firm. The manufacturers repair document Ive quoted above is dated 30 September 
2019. So it is clear that Sainsburys had no opportunity to inspect the camera before it was 
repaired. Furthermore Mr O hasnt given any detailed persuasive comment regarding the 
usage of the flash during his ownership, how the issue with the pop-up flash manifested nor 
any explanation of the sticky substance to this point. 
Mr O responded to my provisional decision with disappointment. He has maintained his 
position with regard to the quality of the camera and explained that the sticky substance was 
a:security marking substance that I purchased from (a third party), that we have 
applied to most of our high value are household items. A spot of this fluid was applied 
to the body of the camera in March 2019 and created no problems whatsoever.
Ive considered this carefully. However it is of note that Mr O says a spot of this sticky 
substance was added to the camera for security purposes. But the report indicates it was 
removed from different areas of the camera. So either this security substance spread across 
the camera which suggests at least the possibility that it got into the flash mechanism. Or 
more than a spot was added to the camera. Either way the report gives no explanation as to 
why the pop-up flash no longer worked or pointed to any defect. The report only mentions 
the substance and describes the removal of it. 
So Im satisfied this camera was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. It seems likely to 
have worked properly for some time and on repair had to have an alien sticky substance 
removed from it. There is no persuasive evidence showing it had a defect at the point of 
sale, was unfit for purpose or was insufficiently durable. And the sticky substance had to be 
removed from either close proximity to or the actual flash itself. And it would seem possible 
at least that the flash not working properly was due to the sticky substance. And there seems 
from the manufacturers report an absence of other causes of the failings that Mr O points to 
with the camera. So although clearly Mr O disagrees, Im satisfied that the camera was of 
satisfactory quality when Mr O purchased it.
I should add for clarity that Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract or material 
misrepresentation in relation to the sale of the camera itself by the Merchant that Sainsburys 
should be responsible for.
The Warranty
It is evident that Mr O believed he had received a 24-month warranty along with camera 
when he purchased it. His attempt to get the camera repaired 13 months or more after the 
point of purchase shows this. And the emails Ive seen from the time show he clearly 
believed that to be the case. And it is also clear that from the point that Mr O raised this 
issue with the Merchant that the Merchant made very clear that Mr O only had a 12-month 
warranty and was thus outside of the period of coverage and thus not entitled to repairs 
under the warranty.
Sainsburys has pointed to the terms of the warranty and made some observations. I note the 
following points issues around the Warranty here. In the information available the Warranty 
is described as Up to 24-month Warranty. This makes clear that Warranty cover of less 
than 24 months is possible by means of the up to part of that statement. Otherwise it would 
say 24-month warranty or similar. It goes on to say under the title standard Warranty that 
the (Merchant) offers up to 24-month standard warranty on its products. This makes clear 
that the Merchant offers (which is different to applies or provides) up to 24-month 
coverage. So Im not persuaded that there was an automatic warranty of 24 months. I also 
note that it goes on to state how an extended warranty of 12 months can be purchased on 
the Warranty page of the website. And I note when purchasing the camera (and other items) 
on the website that there is the option of purchasing the 12 months extra warranty next to 
where you select the item to buy.
In short I do think, like most sales practices, things could be clearer here. But for Sainsburys 
to be held responsible under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 the test is that there is a 
breach of contract or a material misrepresentation which is relied upon to the complainants 
detriment. Im not persuaded there is a false presentation of fact within what the Merchant 
says about the length of the warranty given on this camera. It could be clearer. But as Ive 
said for Sainsburys to be held responsible there has to be a material misrepresentation relied upon to detriment. Im not persuaded that there was a misrepresentation here with 
regard to the length of the warranty. Nor am I necessarily persuaded that the warranty was a 
key issue to Mr O in his decision-making process at the point of sale. After all if the warranty 
was key I think hed have purchased the extended warranty also. 
And as he wasnt in time to claim under the twelve-month warranty Im not persuaded that a 
breach of contract is made out here either in relation to the warranty.
Mr O hasnt sought to argue the point about the warranty. So Im going to add nothing further 
than to note his position on the matter and that Sainsburys hasnt argued it either.
Summary
Having considered the matter in the round including the responses to my provisional 
decision, I am satisfied DCS relationship is in place and Sainsburys has a potential liability 
here under S75 as a result. But Im not persuaded on balance that this camera was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale or had some form of inherent defect, or lack of 
durability which Sainsburys should remedy. I think it was fit for purpose. Im satisfied Mr O 
had a twelve-month warranty and was out of time when he tried to claim upon it. And Im not 
persuaded he was misrepresented to with regard to the Warranty which led to his detriment. 
And accordingly although Sainsburys can be held liable under the legislation here Im not 
persuaded it should be for the above reasons. My decision is this complaint doesnt 
succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Sainsburys Bank Plc. It has 
nothing further to do in this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman