DRN-4487175
The complaint
Mr D complains that Amigo Loans Ltd (Amigo) incorrectly reported his loan as active to the 
credit reference agencies after he had repaid it. He is also unhappy Amigo reported a 
missed payment on his account when he was making payments under an arrangement.
What happened
Mr D settled his Amigo loan in full in July 2023. Mr D says he was hoping to apply for a 
mortgage to buy the property he rented and it had been suggested that repaying the Amigo 
loan could improve his chances of being accepted for a mortgage.
Mr D emailed Amigo to complain on 20 October 2023 after finding his Amigo loan was still 
showing as active on his credit file. He says that because his Amigo loan was still showing 
as active, he couldnt get a mortgage.
Amigo had been experiencing financial difficulties which meant it wasnt able to continue to 
pay compensation for complaints about lending. Because of these financial difficulties, 
Amigo entered into whats called a Scheme of Arrangement to help it pay back some of 
what it owed to its creditors. As part of this, money was made available for Amigo to respond 
to complaints and pay compensation where necessary. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
is not involved in operating the Scheme of Arrangement in any way.
Mr D was still waiting to hear the outcome of his claim under the Scheme of Arrangement 
when he brought his complaint about Amigo continuing to report his loan as active to credit 
reference agencies. 
Amigo responded to Mr Ds complaint and accepted it had incorrectly reported his loan as 
active to the credit reference agencies after he had repaid it. It explained that this had been 
caused by a technical problem with its IT systems and offered Mr D £50 compensation. It 
also explained that Mr D would shortly hear the outcome of his claim under the Scheme of 
Arrangement, and let him know that this would include removing all information about his 
Amigo Loan from his credit files.
Our Investigator considered the complaint. He concluded that as part of the remedy to 
Mr Ds complaint  the removal of information about the Amigo Loan from his credit file  
had come about because of a claim under the Scheme of Arrangement, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service couldnt consider this complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with the Investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
I set out my provisional thoughts in an email to Mr D earlier this week, copying in Amigo. I 
explained that I disagreed with the Investigators assessment of our jurisdiction to consider 
the complaint  I thought we could look at it. I said this because Mr Ds fundamental 
complaint is about an activity not covered under the Scheme of Arrangement and is a 
regulated one open to the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider.
I also explained that as Amigo has agreed to remove all information about Mr Ds loan from 
his credit file as if it never existed, it has gone further than I would have directed it to do had I 
been able to investigate his claim about it agreeing to the loan and found that it shouldnt 
have lent to him. In those circumstances, I wouldve directed Amigo to remove only the 
negative information about the loan showing on Mr Ds credit file  for example any missed 
payment markers.  
This left me to consider whether the £50 Amigo has offered was fair. I noted that Mr D 
settled his loan in July 2023 and that Amigo was still reporting the loan as ongoing as 
recently as October 2023. Mr D emailed Amigo to complain on 20 October 2023 after finding 
out his Amigo loan was still showing as active on his credit file. Amigo replied on 6 
November 2023 to say the information would be removed altogether within a week. I thought 
the events fitted the description of a one-off small administrative error and a short delay, so I 
was minded to say the £50 offered was fair.
Mr D has replied to say he does not accept £50 for all the damage Amigo has caused. He 
says he has had to move to a property with a higher rent and will have to suffer this for a 
year before applying again for a mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ds comments, but Im not persuaded to reach a different 
outcome. Ill explain why.
Ive still not seen that Mr D went ahead with a mortgage application which was then turned 
down  Mr D suggests this information is showing on his credit file but he has not made a 
copy available for me to consider. I should point out that there could be many reasons 
behind a lender not accepting a mortgage application and the reasons dont appear on credit 
files  only that a search was made. Even if I were to accept the only reason Mr D was not 
accepted for a mortgage had been because his Amigo loan was still showing as active on 
his credit file, he still could have evidenced that he had repaid the loan in full, for example by 
giving the lender a bank statement showing the payment leaving his account.
Using financial services wont always be totally hassle free and we wouldnt award for things 
that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of everyday life. So just because theres 
been a mistake it doesnt necessarily follow that we would always award compensation.
An apology or small monetary award of less than £100 will fairly compensate a one-off 
incident or occurrence  such as a small administrative error or a short delay. Mr D emailed 
Amigo to complain on 20 October 2023 after finding the Amigo loan was still showing as 
active on his credit file. Amigo replied on 6 November 2023 to say the information would be 
removed altogether within a week. So, I think this description of a one-off small 
administrative error and/or a short delay fits the circumstances of this case. It follows, I think 
the £50 offered is fair.
I note that Mr D also complained that Amigo reported a missed payment on his account 
when he was making payments under an arrangement. But as Amigo has since removed all 
information about Mr Ds loan from his credit file, Ive not considered this further as it did not 
cause further detriment beyond that Ive already dealt with in the above.My final decision
Amigo Loans Ltd has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Amigo Loans Ltd should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman