DRN-2855971
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has 
administered his mortgage.
What happened
Mr C has a mortgage with Halifax. In 2014, it obtained a suspended possession order 
against him that ordered him to pay the current instalment plus arrears by instalments of 
£91.56 per month. In 2015, Mr C capitalised the arrears balance on the mortgage. 
Mr C complains:
He received poor service in a branch  and it wouldnt accept his complaint.
That when he phoned Halifax he couldnt understand what members of staff were saying 
because of their accents.
Halifax was incorrectly saying his mortgage was in arrears when he had paid all 
payments on time.
Halifax had unfairly increased his mortgage payments.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
We had overlooked the difficulties he had experienced with a member of staff who took 
him out the queue but then wouldnt serve him because he didnt have proof of identity. 
That meant he had to go to the back of the queue and he was served even though he 
didnt have proof of identity. The same member of staff was difficult when dealing with 
part of Mr Cs complaint.
If we found that the increased payment was correct, that was only due to his 
misunderstanding that the payment of £476.13 was fixed  and that was because he 
cant follow a fast talking person on a telephone. 
He wanted some clarity about the adjustments Halifax should make in communicating 
with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
service
Ive looked carefully at what Mr C has said about the service he received both in the branch 
and on the phone. I understand that Mr C would prefer it if the bank did things differently. But 
the bank is entitled to have its own processes and ways of doing things. Even if I accept 
what Mr C has told us about the service he has received, while he might have experienced 
some inconvenience, I dont consider that Halifax needs to do anything to put things right.
balance
Weve given Mr C the opportunity to provide evidence to show that hes made payments to 
Halifax that havent been credited to the mortgage. But the evidence hes provide matches 
up with the banks records. That is to say that the payments from his bank account match 
the payments that were applied to his mortgage. So I dont consider there was any error by 
Halifax.
payments
Mr Cs payments have changed for two reasons. First, there were changes in Halifaxs 
interest rate. Second, the way that the monthly payment was calculated changed. I havent 
seen any persuasive evidence that Halifax has calculated the payments incorrectly.
I can see that Mr C has continued to pay £476.13. But that hasnt been the correct monthly 
payment since September 2016. So that might account for the discrepancy between his 
belief that there are no arrears and the actual amount due. 
I dont consider there has been any error by Halifax in calculating the mortgage balance. It 
follows that the mortgage was in arrears, although I dont know the current position of the 
mortgage. But if it remains in arrears then it is reasonable for Halifax to communicate with Mr 
C through its mortgage department. Mr C is free to write to that department if he wishes and 
Halifax should respond. I would note that it is usually more practical for all parties to deal 
with such matters by phone. But Halifax should understand that doesnt suit all of its 
customers.
Halifax does have a duty to make reasonable adjustments to the way it communicates if Mr 
C has any heath or other problems that makes communicating difficult for him. I cant see 
that Mr C has told us that is the case here. But if it is, then he should tell Halifax and it 
should offer him appropriate support.
My final decision
My final decision is that I donlt uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman