DRN-3310773
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by F.P. Consulting Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr G was concerned about what this meant for the security of his DB scheme, so he sought 
advice. Mr G contacted F.P. Consulting following an introduction by a work colleague. 
Mr G met with F.P. Consulting in July 2017 and it completed a fact-find to gather information 
about his circumstances and objectives. F.P. Consulting also carried out an assessment of 
Mr Gs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be highest medium  a rating of 7 on a scale of 
1-10.
In September 2017, F.P. Consulting advised Mr G to transfer his BSPS benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a managed fund, which it said was appropriate 
for Mr Gs attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that a transfer away from the BSPS would provide Mr G with the 
flexibility and control to determine when and how much income to take from his pension; 
provide the ability to retire at 55; the investment returns required to provide the income were 
deemed achievable; and it would allow any remaining funds to be left to his family upon his 
death.
Mr G accepted the advice and in October 2017 around £418,000 was transferred to Mr Gs 
new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr G complained to F.P. Consulting about the suitability of the transfer advice.
F.P. Consulting didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. In summary it said Mr G had a clear set of 
objectives, which could only be met by transferring out  so its advice was suitable. It said it 
conduced the advice process meticulously in which the risks were explained, including that 
there was little likelihood of matching the guaranteed income Mr G was giving up. It said
Mr G understood the risks involved and was able to make an informed decision. 
Dissatisfied with its response Mr G asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld the complaint and required F.P. Consulting to pay compensation. In 
summary they said a transfer wasnt suitable. They said a transfer to a personal pension was 
unlikely to improve on Mr Gs DB scheme benefits given the level of growth required to 
match them at age 65. They also questioned Mr Gs recorded attitude to investment risk of 
highest medium given his investment experience and given he said that he wanted low risk 
funds in email correspondence with F.P. Consulting. They said Mr Gs true attitude to risk 
made it more unlikely that the transfer was financially viable. 
They went on to say that, despite Mr G indicating that he wanted to retire early  between 55 
and 60  all F.P Consultings analysis was based on a retirement age of 65. As such they 
said the actual investment growth required to at least match Mr Gs DB scheme benefits was 
likely higher than quoted. They also said that F.P Consulting shouldve provided analysis as 
part of its advice on what level of benefits Mr G couldve received from the DB scheme if he 
wanted to take early retirement to show if it was affordable.
The investigator went on to say that F.P Consulting shouldve waited for details of the new 
defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2) under consideration, which might have helped allay
Mr Gs fears about the BSPS moving to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF.) And finally they 
said the potential for different death benefits offered by a personal pension arrangement 
didnt make the advice suitable.
F.P. Consulting disagreed. In doing so it has provided a substantive response and has 
provided a number of cash flow analyses in support of its arguments. I have read everything 
in detail. But in summary F.P. Consulting said:
Mr G had clear objectives and he identified himself as an experienced investor, which
was supported by his actions.
By transferring out, as demonstrated by the cashflow analysis, Mr G could afford to 
retire at 55 and take his desired income, whereas if he remained in the scheme this 
wasnt possible.
Mr G wanted to transfer out to avoid losing the fund as he saw it when he died - at 
the point he retired from the scheme or in went into the PPF he wouldnt be able to 
pass on the fund value to his family. Mr G valued this as much as, if not more than 
retiring early.
To achieve his objectives of retiring at 55, take an income of £1,800 a month and 
provide death benefits to his sister, he had to transfer out. Mr G didnt want a 
guaranteed income with no death benefits.
It believes it acted in Mr Gs best interests.
Reference to the critical yield is irrelevant in this case because Mr G was single and 
had no intention of buying guaranteed income  it did not recommend the transfer to 
try to beat his guaranteed income. The more appropriate test of suitability is the 
investment return needed to provide the same benefits as the scheme and preserve 
the fund Mr G was worried about losing when he died.
Mr G had spoken to other advisers prior to approaching F.P. Consulting, so he was 
clearly intent on transferring regardless.
BSPS2 wasnt available at the time of the advice and a lot of talk was that BSPS 
would end up in the PPF.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.
In submitting further evidence for my consideration, F.P. Consulting broadly repeated much 
of what it had said before. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of F.P. Consulting's actions 
here. 
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, F. P. 
Consulting should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. Mr G had just turned 51 at the time of the written advice and its recorded that he wanted to 
retire early between 55 and 58  it later said 60 at the latest. Despite that F.P. Consultings 
analysis was based on a retirement age of 65. This showed that the critical yield, or 
investment return required to match the DB pension schemes benefits at age 65 was 8.47% 
assuming Mr G took a full pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through 
the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 4.66% per year if Mr G took a full pension and 4.17% per 
year if he took a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension.
This compares with the discount rate of 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Gs 
recorded attitude to risk of  highest medium and also the term to retirement. In my view 
there would be little point in Mr G giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the critical yield of 8.47% was greater than the regulators upper projection rate 
and more than twice that of the discount rate. And while I have concerns about how F.P. 
Consulting arrived at classifying Mr Gs attitude to risk as highest medium given he told 
them he wanted to invest in low risk funds, even if I thought this was the level of risk Mr G 
was prepared to take with his pension, I think it was clear he was likely to receive benefits of 
a substantially lower overall value than his DB scheme at retirement as a result of investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of 
growth required, would have required Mr G to take significant investment risk and far greater 
risk than I think he was prepared to take. And even then I think its more likely than not Mr G 
would be worse off financially at retirement if he transferred out.
It's not clear to me why F.P. Consulting only produced this transfer analysis based on a 
retirement age of 65 when Mr G stated his objective was to consider retirement between 55 
and 60  it strikes me that this should have formed a key part of F.P. Consultings advice in 
arriving at a suitable recommendation and ought to have been included or referred to in its 
suitability report. This means the critical yields needed to match Mr Gs benefits through the 
BSPS or the PPF at 55 and/or 60 arent available. But I find it unlikely they would have been 
lower than the growth required based on retirement at 65  and most unlikely to have been 
lower than the regulators middle growth rate or the discount rate. If anything I think they 
were likely to be higher given the shorter term to retirement and the fact benefits wouldve 
needed to be paid for longer. So in the scenario of Mr G taking benefits earlier than 65, I 
dont think he was likely to even match the same pension benefits if he transferred out of the 
BSPS, let alone exceed them.
But F.P. Consulting says the critical yield is irrelevant here because Mr G wasnt planning to 
buy a guaranteed income using an annuity with his pension funds. It says a more 
appropriate test of suitability is the investment return needed to provide the same benefits as 
Mr Gs scheme. Furthermore, it said it didnt recommend the transfer to try to beat Mr Gs 
guaranteed income. And I can see that in the suitability report, the advisor said that it was 
unlikely that investment growth of 8.47% a year could be achieved. 
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figure should be downplayed here. While I 
accept that Mr G was single and its likely the critical yield figure was based on the BSPS 
also providing a spouses pension, which wouldnt have been important to Mr G, I still 
consider it gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr G was considering giving up. 
Its also the case that the regulator required F.P. Consulting to provide it and so deems it a 
necessary and important part of the decision-making process. I can see the suitability report said that a growth rate of 8.47% wasnt achievable and Mr G 
may therefore have understood this. 
But I cant see that F.P. Consulting made it clear whether it thought the growth rate required 
to match the PPF benefits of 4.66% / 4.17% was achievable, which was perhaps the more 
important figure given that Mr Gs DB scheme might end up moving to the PPF. In any 
event, simply disclosing the risks doesnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable. 
Ive also considered a series of cash flow forecasts F.P. Consulting has provided, which it 
says demonstrates Mr G could meet his income need, including retiring early at 55 as well 
as maintaining his pension fund to pass on to his family upon his death. 
Firstly, none of this analysis F.P. Consulting has provided here is shown or referred to in the 
advice paperwork including the suitability letter  so its not clear that this was discussed with 
Mr G or that it formed part of its advice and recommendation process so Mr G could make 
an informed decision. In any event, I can see that two of the forecasts are based on Mr G 
taking the same level of income at 55 and 60 F.P. Consulting estimated Mr G would be 
entitled to by taking early retirement from his DB scheme. But as I said above, I consider 
there would be little point in Mr G giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Ive also considered the forecast, which shows Mr G could retire at 55 taking his desired 
income of £1,800 a month at the same time as retaining a pension fund worth around 
£400,000 at age 90. But not only is this only achieved with a net investment return of over 
5%, which in my view would be unlikely on the basis that Mr G said he wanted to invest in 
low risk funds, it also required Mr G to substantially reduce his income withdrawal at his 
state pension age instead relying on this to make his funds last. Notwithstanding this, Im 
mindful too that the analyses assumed a static inflation rate and a consistent investment 
performance return  there was no stress testing to account for potential rises in inflation or 
periods of lower investment performance to show how this would impact the sustainability of 
Mr Gs income withdrawal and whether he might run out of money sooner.
Overall, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Gs benefits were reduced, he
was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a personal
pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr G would be financially worse off in
retirement. So based on this alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Gs best interests.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
F.P. Consulting has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered below whether 
such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs 
F.P Consulting has said that it was Mr Gs clearly stated aim to retire at 55 and that he 
couldnt achieve this by remaining in his DB scheme. 
Ive already said that I dont think it was financially viable for Mr G to transfer out to meet this 
objective. But crucially here, Im not persuaded that it was Mr Gs clearly stated aim to retire 
at 55  I dont think the evidence supports this. The fact-find document recorded an intended 
retirement age range of 55  58. But reference was also made in the advice paperwork to a 
maximum retirement age of 60. I dont think this supports a clear aim or a firm plan to retire 
at 55.Furthermore nothing about Mr Gs circumstances leads me to conclude he had a real need 
to retire at 55  for example Mr G didnt have significant debts that he needed to repay at 
this time and the only means of repayment was his tax-free cash lump sum entitlement. Its 
also recorded that Mr G was in good health.
In addition, I can see that the fact-find records Mr G wanted to finish shift work at 55 and 
then either do day work if the option was available (it appears Mr G worked nights), work 
part-time, or if neither was possible he would leave his employer. But crucially it doesnt say 
that Mr G wanted to stop working all together and take his pension benefits at this stage. It 
strikes me that Mr Gs key objective was to change his work pattern at 55, which depending 
on what transpired might dictate his retirement plans. And importantly Mr G wouldnt know 
this until this became clear, which most likely wouldnt be for a few more years.
I accept Mr G likely told F.P. Consulting, when asked, that he wanted to retire early  I think 
if asked most people would say the same thing. But F.P. Consultings role wasnt simply to 
facilitate a customer's objective and what Mr G might have thought he wanted. Mr Gs desire 
to retire early doesnt outweigh F.P. Consultings responsibility to provide him with suitable 
advice and to act in his best interests.
So I dont think F.P. Consulting should have advised Mr G to transfer out for the possibility of 
him being able to retire early when I dont think he had concrete plans to do so at this stage. 
Because of this Im not persuaded Mr G had a genuine need for flexibility in how or when he 
took his pension benefits, or that it was a real objective at this stage  I think it was simply a 
consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement.
Turning to Mr Gs income need and notwithstanding the above, F.P. Consulting appears to 
have recommended the transfer because Mr G couldnt achieve his income objective of 
£1,800 a month by remaining in his DB scheme. Ive already said above that I dont think a 
transfer was financially viable. But in addition theres no evidence that F.P. Consulting 
interrogated Mr Gs retirement income objective to determine whether or not it was realistic 
or achievable to help Mr G make an informed decision. For example theres no evidence in 
the advice paperwork that F.P. Consulting clearly set out what income Mr Gs DB scheme 
would likely provide him with at 55 through to 60, including if the BSPS moved to the PPF 
and how that compared with his actual income need. Furthermore F.P. Consulting didnt 
consider the role Mr Gs Defined Contribution pension could play in his future income 
generation or how his state pension could add to things later on. I also think in light of Mr G 
considering future part-time work, this couldve been explored and whether a blend of 
earned and retirement income from his DB scheme couldve met his needs.
In terms of Mr Gs desire for a retirement income of £1,800, it strikes me that for a single 
person this was quite high  it is only £300 less than Mr Gs take-home pay. I consider it 
likely that Mr Gs expenditure would be lower in retirement  notwithstanding Mr Gs 
mortgage repayment was not significant - so his income need would also be lower. I 
wouldve expected F.P. Consulting to have interrogated this to determine whether £1,800 a 
month was what Mr G actually needed to fulfil his retirement goals. And this shouldve 
involved a thorough expenditure in retirement analysis. But I cant see F.P. Consulting did so 
 the income and expenditure recorded in the fact-find can, in my view, only reasonably be 
described as sparse. 
While not shown in the advice paperwork as I said above, F.P. Consultings files show that 
the annual income Mr G could expect from his DB scheme at age 60 was around £16,500. 
Given Mr G had other sources of income he could use to supplement this  he had savings 
and his DC workplace pension  I think its likely that combined this couldve met Mr Gs 
actual income need.  Ultimately, F.P. Consulting had to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed 
benefits available through the BSPS or the PPF was in Mr G's best interest. And as part of 
this, I think it was necessary to carry out this analysis. Importantly, if F.P Consulting didnt 
think Mr Gs income need was realistic or necessary it shouldve made that clear to him. 
This wouldve given Mr G the information and opportunity to re-consider things, including 
re-thinking his target retirement income. Because Im not persuaded this was carried out 
clearly, I dont think F.P. Consulting did act in Mr Gs best interests and I dont think Mr G 
was able to make an informed decision.
Control and death benefits
F.P. Consulting says Mr G wanted control over his pension fund and that it was equally, if 
not more important for him to pass his fund to his friends and family when he died over 
receiving a guaranteed income.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, I think most people would 
like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving 
a large sum to his family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr G. That said, Im 
mindful that Mr G was single and he had no dependants  so it strikes me as odd that Mr G 
would place significant weight on wanting to leave any remaining pension fund upon his 
death to non-dependant family members, particularly over his own security in retirement.
Nevertheless, I accept death benefits might have been important and Mr G might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this.
 
But again, F.P. Consultings responsibility wasnt simply to transact what Mr G thought he 
wanted or he thought was a good idea - the priority here was to advise Mr G about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement and not a legacy provision tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or 
different death benefits should have been prioritised over this. And I say potential, because 
the sum left on Mr Gs death was dependent on investment returns - so if he lived a long life 
and/or investment returns were lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum 
to pass on anyway.
Overall I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
While not a key reason for recommending Mr G transfer his pension benefits, the advice 
paperwork makes reference to Mr Gs concerns about his pension scheme and specifically 
about it moving to the PPF. And I have no doubt that Mr G was concerned about his pension 
at this time  there was lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. I think this is likely the 
reason Mr G sought advice in the first place and its possible that Mr G was considering 
transferring because of these concerns about his employer and what might happen.
It was F.P. Consultings duty to give Mr G an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests. At the time of the advice  specifically around the time the suitability report 
is dated  the available information from the scheme trustees indicated that, while not 
guaranteed, the new BSPS2 scheme would likely go ahead. I think this is what F.P. 
Consulting shouldve told Mr G to help alleviate his concerns. But theres no mention of this 
in the advice paperwork.And in terms of Mr Gs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, despite the 10% 
reduction in starting benefits and the fact the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
importantly the income was still guaranteed.  And while I accept the suitability report referred 
to the advantages of remaining in the scheme and reference was made to the pension being 
guaranteed, I think F.P. Consulting ought to have specifically reassured Mr G that, even if 
there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF was not as 
concerning as he thought or was led to believe. 
Summary
I accept that Mr G was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr G. But F.P. Consulting wasnt there to just facilitate what Mr G might 
have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr G needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests, which I think it failed to do.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. Im not persuaded Mr Gs 
early retirement plans were sufficiently established at the time of the advice to justify a need  
for flexibility of income. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income and 
by transferring, I think Mr G was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. 
And in my view, there were no other compelling reasons which would justify a transfer and 
outweigh this - the potential for different or higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I think F.P. Consulting shouldve advised 
Mr G to remain in the BSPS.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr G would've gone ahead anyway, against F.P. 
Consultings advice. F.P. Consulting argues that this is the case here  it says Mr G had 
seen a number of advisers before it met with them and the language he used in his 
correspondence indicates hed made up his mind to transfer regardless of what they said. I 
can see it has also referred to Mr G being an experienced investor and says Mr Gs question 
about the initial charge on his funds demonstrates he knew what he was doing.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against F.P. Consultings advice. I say this because, while 
Mr G was motivated to transfer when he approached F.P. Consulting, on balance, I still think 
Mr G wouldve listened to and followed F.P. Consultings advice if things had happened as 
they should have and it had recommended he stay in the scheme. I accept the fact-find 
records that Mr G had done share dealing previously, but he didnt hold any investment 
products at the time of the advice. And while Mr G might have been familiar with some 
investment terminology, Im not persuaded he could reasonably be described as an 
experienced investor or someone who possessed the necessary knowledge, skill or 
confidence to go against the advice they were given in pension matters. Furthermore, while 
Mr G may have had some investment experience, I dont think he had any real capacity for 
loss - Mr Gs BSPS benefits accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if F.P. 
Consulting had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think on balance he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Gs concerns about his employer were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. For these reasons, I dont think Mr G would have insisted on transferring out of his scheme 
against F.P. Consultings advice.
If Mr G had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF
or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. 
While Mr G said he wanted to retire early and 55 was the starting point, I dont think his 
plans were concrete  its possible Mr G wouldve continued working if hed secured different 
shift patterns at 55. 
So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. Im also mindful the annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2 and by opting into 
this scheme, Mr G wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme (if his needs 
demanded it) nearer to retirement..
So overall, I think F.P. Consulting should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr G. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
F.P. Consulting  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the 
emotional and practical impact this had on Mr G. Taking everything into account, including
that I consider Mr G is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, 
I think the unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in 
all the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mr G has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for F.P. Consultings unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme and then chosen to move his benefits to 
the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
F.P. Consulting must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
F.P. Consulting may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date F.P. Consulting receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes F.P. Consulting to pay 
Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
To note - if the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect F.P. Consulting to carry out a calculation in line 
with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require F.P. Consulting Limited 
to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
In addition to require F.P. Consulting Limited to pay Mr G £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience the unsuitable advice has caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
F.P. Consulting Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
F.P. Consulting Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
F.P. Consulting Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on F.P. Consulting Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman