DRN-1767270
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was unable to access his crowdfunding account with Retail Money 
Market Ltd trading as RateSetter.
What happened
Mr K had issues accessing his loan-based crowdfunding account with RateSetter between 
14 November 2019 to 15 November 2019. Mr K said that at the time hed seen several 
crowdfunding companies had gone under and so he was concerned the same had 
happened to RateSetter. 
When he called RateSetter in the morning on 14 November 2019 he said he was told that 
the problem had occurred that morning, but when he called in the evening he was told it had 
only started that evening. This caused him further concern as he thought RateSetter was 
trying to cover up that it had gone bust. Mr K also said that he got no response when he 
contacted RateSetter via social media and there was no update given to customers at any 
point until the issue was resolved. 
Mr K said when he called RateSetter again on the morning of 15 November 2019 he was 
told he would receive an email update, but he didnt receive this until that afternoon. This 
was once the issue had been resolved some 24 hours or so after the issue had first 
occurred. Once the issue had been resolved, Mr K was able to request withdrawals from his 
investments, but he said the delay caused him considerable stress.
RateSetter explained that it experienced a technical issue whereby its system went down for 
a short period. It apologised to Mr K for this and assured him that the issue had been 
resolved. It also said that it had provided feedback to the relevant department and hoped this 
would prevent the error from occurring again in the future. RateSetter explained that it had 
provided Mr K with an update on 15 November 2019 as it promised it would when he had 
called that morning. So it didnt think it needed to do anything more.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint but she didnt uphold it. She explained 
that she had considered the impact of RateSetters error on Mr K but didnt think it warranted 
any compensation. She noted that he hadnt lost out financially and that he was only without 
access to his account for 24 hours. She also thought that RateSetter had kept Mr K informed 
when he called and had reassured him that it was simply a technical error. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators opinion as he disagreed that RateSetter kept him 
informed. He also said that he didnt receive any of the withdrawn funds until 18 November 
2019 and that he encountered another issue accessing funds on the 19 November 2019. 
Another investigator responded to Mr K. He explained that hed contacted RateSetter about 
the issue on 19 November 2019 and it had consented to our Service considering this point. 
He remained of the opinion that the complaint should not be upheld as hed seen that Mr K 
had contacted RateSetter about this withdrawal issue and that it had been resolved on the 
same day. Mr K remains unhappy as he doesnt feel that weve fully considered the impact this has had 
on him. And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as our investigators. I understand that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision but Ill 
explain why.
Our role is to ensure that where a business has made a mistake or done something wrong it 
puts that right by putting a consumer back in the financial position theyd now be in but for 
that mistake. To clarify, it is not our role to punish or fine a business for its mistakes but 
solely to compensate a consumer for any financial loss and potential trouble and upset 
caused by a business error.
In Mr Ks case, its clear that there were some technical issues which prevented Mr K from 
accessing his account and withdrawing his funds. However, RateSetter has provided 
evidence of his withdrawal requests and the amounts he received which show he didnt 
suffer any financial loss as a result of the delays. So Ive focused on whether the errors 
caused Mr K trouble and upset which amounts to an award for compensation. 
RateSetter has provided us with a copy of its contact notes which show when Mr K called in 
and what was explained to him at the time. From these, I can see that when Mr K called on 
14 November 2019, on both occasions RateSetter told Mr K that the issue had been raised 
with the relevant team and it suggested that Mr K try logging back into his account later that 
day or the following morning. The contact notes dont record Mr K raising any concerns 
about RateSetters financial position and so I cant say RateSetter acted unfairly by not 
addressing these if they were never raised.
I note Mr K says he contacted RateSetter via social media but didnt receive a response. 
Ratesetter hasnt explained why it didnt respond to Mr K, but having considered 
RateSetters response to his concerns when he called in, Im satisfied RateSetter did 
address his concerns fully. 
The contact notes show that when Mr K called again the following morning, he was told that 
RateSetter would email him with an update and I understand that this was done later that 
day when the issue was resolved. So whilst I appreciate Mr K may have been worried about 
not being able to access his account, Im satisfied that RateSetter assured him that the issue 
was being looked at when he called. The impact of the error appears to have been relatively 
minimal as RateSetter was able to resolve the technical error within a day.
Once Mr K had access to his account again, Ive seen evidence that he was able to make 
several withdrawal requests on 15 November 2019. But Mr K has expressed his 
dissatisfaction that he only received funds on 18 November 2019. 
 
 
 
 RateSetters Investor Terms explain the following regarding withdrawing funds:
5. Taking money out
5.1 You may transfer funds from your Holding Account into your Nominated Bank Account 
by choosing the One-off Money Out option in your RateSetter Account or using the Auto 
Money Out option which allows you to specify that funds be withdrawn on a regular basis. 
Withdrawals are normally credited to your Nominated Bank Account by the end of the next 
working day but may be delayed up to 5 working days in cases where additional fraud or 
identity checks are required, for example when you make your first withdrawal. You may not 
withdraw funds into any account other than your Nominated Bank Account.
Taking into account the above term, I dont consider there to have been any unfair delay in 
Mr K receiving his funds as it clearly states that a withdrawal can take up to five working 
days to be credited to a bank account. 
Having received these funds, I understand Mr K encountered another issue accessing some 
of his funds on 19 November 2019. I can see from the contact notes that, when he called 
that day, RateSetter assured him that it would raise the issue with the relevant team and it 
would get back to as soon as possible. Mr K requested that he be contacted that day and I 
can see that RateSetter emailed him soon after the call to confirm the issue had been raised. 
RateSetter has provided evidence to show that Mr K was able to access these funds that 
same day and again there was no financial loss suffered.
Ive also seen that RateSetter emailed Mr K on 22 November 2019 to confirm that there had 
been a temporary technical issue on the account which was resolved with a high priority and 
apologised for any inconvenience caused. 
Taking into account all of the above, whilst I appreciate there were two errors which 
happened over a fairly short period of time, Ive considered the length of time each technical 
issue lasted. Whilst I acknowledge the frustration Mr K has expressed, the technical issues 
lasted no more than 24 hours on each occasion and he didnt suffer any financial loss as a 
result of these. RateSetter has apologised and the issues were resolved promptly, so I dont 
think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Ben Waites
Ombudsman