DRN-3184218
The complaint
Ms I, on behalf of her business, U, complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard 
didnt uphold her chargeback claim.
What happened
Ms I paid for wallpaper using her business credit card and says that the wallpaper was 
faulty. The supplier didnt agree, and Ms I raised a chargeback claim with Barclaycard. She 
says she cannot get the wallpaper replaced due to the dispute and this is delaying her 
opening her building. She wants the cost of the wallpaper (£500) refunded along with 
compensation for the delay.
Barclaycard said that Ms I contacted it to raise a chargeback claim for £528. It said it 
received the relevant information in January regarding the disputed transaction. It said the 
wallpaper had been provided and installed and that it didnt have any chargeback rights for 
quality issues. It said Ms I would need to resolve the issue with the supplier.
Ms I didnt accept Barclaycards outcome and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She was satisfied that Barclaycard had 
reviewed Ms Is complaint fairly. 
Ms I didnt agree with our investigators view. She said the goods were faulty and the 
supplier wouldnt replace them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, chargeback is the process by which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and retailers, under the relevant card scheme 
rules. The chargeback process doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. 
Our role isnt to challenge the card scheme on how to run their scheme  we can only 
comment on the actions of Barclaycard and whether it acted fairly and reasonably in dealing 
with the chargeback claim.
I have looked through the correspondence provided and can see that Barclaycard contacted 
Ms I in December 2020 following her complaint about the wallpaper she had acquired in 
October 2020. It said a temporary credit would be applied to the account and requested that 
further evidence be provided. This was a reasonable response to the initial issue raised. 
Information was provided on behalf of business U which said after the wallpaper was 
installed Ms I inspected it and found several "bumps" on it due to the wall underneath not 
being previously properly prepared for the wallpaper to be installed. It was said it had been 
agreed with Ms I that the supplier would prepare the walls and that while Ms I had tried to 
contact the supplier to get the issue resolved the supplier wasnt taking any responsibility for 
the state of the walls.
Barclaycard responded to the information provided saying that it was unable to proceed with 
the chargeback claim as the wallpaper had been provided and installed and the issue with 
the bumps was a quality of service issue that it didnt have chargeback rights for. It said the 
issue would need to be resolved directly with the supplier. It explained that the temporary 
credit that had been applied would be removed. Based on the information Barclaycard 
received at that time I do not think it acted unreasonably by not pursuing the claim. 
Ms I has since said the issue wasnt with the wall but that the wallpaper was faulty and so 
would never have laid flat. But based on when this point was raised with this service it would 
have been out of time for the chargeback claim. It is also a different reason to that which was 
provided to Barclaycard and I still note the wallpaper was installed and I have nothing to 
further support it being faulty when delivered. In this case I have considered the information 
provided to Barclaycard as part of its investigation into the chargeback claim and based on 
this I do not find that Barclaycard was wrong not to pursue the claim. 
In certain circumstances, quality of goods issues can be dealt with through a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. However, in this case the payment was made by a 
limited company and so this option isnt available.
Overall, I do not find I can say that Barclaycard did anything wrong in the process of dealing 
with the claim by Ms Is business and so I do not uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank Plc trading as 
Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman