DRN-2077900
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the poor customer service he received when he went into his local 
branch of National Westminster Bank Plc to pay in some coins and the way his complaint 
was dealt with afterwards.
What happened
Mr H wanted to pay in a number of coins at his local branch. He tried to use the coin 
machine but not all the coins were accepted so he had to queue to see a cashier to 
complete the transaction.
Mr H says he had to queue for about 20 minutes and realised that this was because the 
cashiers were dealing with both customer service issues as well as transactions. He doesn't 
think this was reasonable when there were other customer staff available in branch. He says 
he'd recently had back surgery so found standing for so long uncomfortable.
Mr H raised an online complaint a few days later. He also called the customer care centre on 
20 February and explained why he wanted the complaint dealt with quickly. He says he was 
told it'd be allocated that day and he'd have a response by the 28 February. But when he 
called back on the 24th, he found it hadn't been allocated.  He says he was on the phone for 
over 34 minute trying to get an explanation for this and feels Nat West should compensate 
him for this as well as his trouble and inconvenience.
NatWest  apologised that Mr H had to wait in branch to be seen but said cashiers could be 
asked to deal with a range of matters to help out and that this was part of its business model 
so it couldn't agree it was poor service. With regard to the complaint, it accepted Mr H 
should have been told when he first called that the complaint needed to be allocated to a 
specialist team. It had apologised for this and for the time he had spent on the phone but 
said the response had gone out on 25 February which was within the timescale Mr H had 
been given. It didn't agree it needed to do anything more.
Our investigator felt NatWest had dealt with the matter fairly. While he could understand why 
Mr H felt frustrated at having to wait in branch it was for NatWest to decide how best to 
manage its business and we could't interfere with that.  He'd taken into account Mr H's 
concerns about the way his complaint had been dealt with and in particular the time he'd 
spent on the phone. But he couldn't see Mr H had incurred an actual financial cost as the 
call was part of his monthly allowance. In the circumstances he felt the apology was 
sufficient.
Mr H disagreed and said he felt we hadn't understood his complaint. He felt NatWest should 
compensate him for his trouble and inconvenience, including that he'd had to queue for a 
long time despite just having a back problem and the cost of his calls and time. He asked for 
his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this isn't the decision Mr H was hoping for but I think NatWest has dealt with this 
complaint fairly as I'll now explain.
When Mr H went into the branch to pay in his coins, he had to queue and unfortunately he 
had to do so for over 20 minutes. I can understand how frustrating this was, not least as I 
can see that he was under some time pressure for family reasons, but I can't agree this was 
poor service. NatWest like all businesses is entitled to decide how best to manage its 
resources to meet its particular needs from day to day. That's a commercial decision and its 
not for us to tell it how it should do this. 
I appreciate Mr H has back problems and found the waiting uncomfortable but from what 
he's said, I can't see that he told anyone this in branch before he saw the cashier so I can't 
reasonably criticise NatWest for not offering assistance if the staff were unaware.
Its unfortunate that NatWest didn't arrange a call back to Mr H when it realised the 
information he'd been given about how his complaint would be dealt with was wrong. If it had 
then Mr H may not have had to call on the Monday and the long telephone call could have 
been avoided. Having said that, Mr H's complaint was dealt with within the timeframe he'd 
been given and well within the 8 weeks that's usually allowed for complaints under the 
regulations.  I consider that's reasonable.
I've  seen Mr H feels NatWest should contribute to the cost of his call. He says he used part 
of his monthly call allowance on this so Nat West should pay that cost. But there are 
inevitably some cost incurred when raising a complaint and not all of those cost will be 
compensated. And in order to make an award for financial loss, I'd need to see that there's 
been an actual loss incurred. I note what Mr H says  but I haven't seen anything to show that 
the case here so I can't  reasonably to ask NatWest to pay for a cost that hasn't been 
incurred. 
I realise Mr H may not agree but taking into account the complaint was dealt with within 5 
days and that there was no financial loss, I am satisfied that an apology is reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr H in this case. For that reason I won't be asking NatWest to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman