DRN-4349209
The complaint
Miss N complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2018, Miss N came across someone on social media who was advertising for 
people to work with them to make money. Miss N messaged the person, who told her they 
would be investing in stocks and could make significant profits. As the person seemed 
genuine and knowledgeable and had a large following on the social media platform, Miss N 
decided to go ahead with the investment and made a series of payments through Wise to 
the account details the person gave her. Ive set out the payments Miss N made below:
Date Details Amount
25 January 2018 To 1st account details £1,000
25 January 2018 To 1st account details £1,000
25 January 2018 To 2nd account details £2,000
25 January 2018 To 2nd account details £1,000
26 January 2018 To 3rd account details £500
Unfortunately, we now know the investment wasnt genuine and the person was a scammer.
After the scam was uncovered, Miss N reported the payments to Wise and asked it to refund 
the money she had lost. Wise investigated but said it couldnt have detected that the 
payments were part of a scam and had made the payments as Miss N had instructed it to. 
So it didnt agree to refund them. Miss N wasnt satisfied with Wises response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
I sent Miss N and Wise a provisional decision on 17 August 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be 
responsible for those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Miss N authorised the payments. She accepts she made them 
herself, as instructed to by the scammers. So while I recognise that she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Wise was obliged to follow her 
instructions and process the payments. So Miss N isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice at the time, also set out an 
expectation for account providers to consider the interests of their customers and treat them 
fairly. And I think this included monitoring accounts to look out for unusual activity and trying 
to protect customers from fraud and financial harm. So Ive also thought about whether Wise 
did enough to try to keep Miss Ns account safe.
But this kind of account is often used for the types of foreign currency payments Miss N 
made as part of this scam, so these types of payments wouldnt have seemed unusual to 
Wise. And some of the money for the scam payments came from an account in a foreign 
currency, so it would have seemed that Miss N had a genuine reason for making these kinds 
of payments.
Miss N had also opened the account just over a month earlier and used it to make a number 
of legitimate payments before the scam payments were made. The scam payments werent 
for what I consider to be particularly large or unusual amounts of money. And they were 
made to a number of different account details, which made a link or pattern between them 
more difficult to identify.
So I think its reasonable that Wise didnt identify the payments Miss N made here as 
unusual, or do anything further before allowing them to go through.
Ive also considered whether Wise did enough to try to recover the money Miss N lost, once 
it was told about the scam. But Wise wasnt told about the scam until more than four years 
after the payments were made. And scammers will usually move money as quickly as 
possible to avoid it being followed. And so I dont think anything we would reasonably have 
expected Wise to have done could have recovered the money Miss N lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss N has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Wise has acted unreasonably or that anything I 
would reasonably have expected it to do would have prevented this scam or recovered her 
money. So I dont think it would be fair to require Wise to refund the money Miss N has lost.
I said Id consider anything further Miss N and Wise sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss N nor Wise sent in any further evidence or arguments following the provisional 
decision. And so I still think the conclusions I reached in the provisional decision are correct, 
and for the same reasons.
I dont think its unreasonable that Wise didnt identify the payments Miss N made as 
unusual, or do anything further before allowing them to go through. So I dont think Wise has 
acted unreasonably or that anything I would reasonably have expected it to do would have 
prevented the scam. And so I dont think it would be fair to require Wise to refund the money 
Miss N lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman