DRN-3837388
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) took action to 
close his savings account because he no longer resides in the UK. He also complains about 
the customer service he received. 
What happened
Mr H opened a Defined Access E-Saver Issue 15 (Issue 15) account with Virgin. He says he 
noticed that the interest rate had reduced on his Double Take E-Saver Issue 12 (Issue 12) 
account and so he wanted to transfer the funds from this account to the Issue 15 account on 
a higher rate. 
Mr H set up the new account online, using a UK address for the application, which he says 
he was told by someone at Virgin to do. Mr H was asked for identification documents by 
Virgin, which he sent in but received slow responses. Essentially, Mr H was told that his 
Issue 15 account would be closed because he was no longer a UK resident, and this type of 
account isnt offered to customers living outside of the UK. 
Mr H is unhappy about this. He says he was told he could still open the account even though 
he was no longer living in the UK. He also complains about the customer service he received 
from Virgin  specifically the incorrect information he received, time taken for it to respond to 
his messages and call wait times.
Virgin responded to Mr Hs complaint and upheld it in part. It thought its decision to close the 
account was fair  this is because the terms and conditions of the account state that the 
customer must reside in the UK to open an account. But it agreed that Mr H had been given 
incorrect information and it agreed that it could have been quicker at responding to him, and 
so it offered him £100 to say sorry. Unhappy with Virgins response, Mr H got in touch with 
this service. 
An Investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They agreed that the 
terms and conditions of the account wouldnt allow Mr H to open a new account as a non-UK 
resident. And they thought that the £100 Virgin had offered Mr H was enough to put things 
right for the customer service issues hed experienced. 
Mr H didnt agree with the Investigator, and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this 
decision will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons for this below.
Mr H says that he opened the Issue 15 account because Virgin deliberately reduced the 
interest on his Issue 12 account to that of a more basic savings account. I have looked at the 
terms that apply to the Issue 12 account Mr H has mentioned. The Key Product Information 
Sheet (KPIS) states the interest rate is variable and can either move up or down. So, I dont 
find that Virgin did anything wrong in reducing the rate on that account. 
As Mr H has said, the Issue 15 account was available to new and existing customers. 
However, there was set criteria that needed to be met in order to be eligible to open an 
account. 
The terms and conditions of the account state:
The KPIS will tell you how old you have to be to open the account and if there are any other 
requirements. 
The KPIS is specific to the particular product being opened. For the Defined Access E-Saver 
Issue 15 account it states:
This account can be opened online by UK residents aged 16 or over.
Given that the terms and conditions of the account state that the KPIS determine account 
opening requirements, I think its clear from reading the KPIS that to be eligible to open an 
Issue 15 account, one of the requirements is to be a UK resident. Mr H has confirmed that 
he hasnt resided in the UK for a number of years. And so, I dont think he was eligible to 
open an Issue 15 account. 
I appreciate that Mr H has said that he is still registered in the UK for tax purposes. I have 
noted that that the general terms and conditions of Virgin savings account state that You 
cant open this savings account if:  You dont live in the UK for tax purposes., but the 
KPIS further states that UK residency is a requirement for that particular account. So I dont 
think Mr H met the eligibility requirement for the Issue 15 product.
I have noted that Mr H has been able to open other savings accounts in the time he has 
been residing outside of the UK. I dont think this necessarily means that it was wrong of 
Virgin to have closed the Issue 15 account down. Virgin has stated that it shouldnt have 
allowed these other accounts to be opened either, given where Mr H resides. I wont ask 
Virgin to do anything more in relation to these other accounts given that Mr H has received 
the benefit of them when he shouldnt have  and they are now closed.
In addition to what Ive said above, the general terms and conditions provides information on 
when it can close an account. 
We can close your account immediately if .. 
you were never entitled to open the account.
Given that Mr H didnt meet the eligibility requirement to open the account, I dont find it was 
unreasonable of Virgin to close the account.
All in all, I dont find that Mr H was eligible to open the Issue 15 account, and so I dont think 
Virgin did anything wrong when it took the decision to close it down.
Virgin has though stated that Mr H can keep open his Easy Access Saver account  thats 
because this account was opened when he was a UK resident.In relation to the customer service aspect of Mr Hs complaint, both parties have confirmed 
he was given incorrect and unclear information  and I agree with this. Mr H wasnt told that 
he couldnt have an Issue 15 account if he resided outside of the UK and so Mr H continued 
spend time contacting Virgin  with slow responses and long waiting times on the phone. I 
do think the incorrect/unclear information and slow response times have caused Mr H an 
inconvenience. 
When considering fair compensation in this case, I have thought about the impact Virgins 
failings have had on Mr H, alongside our normal approach to awarding distress and 
inconvenience payments (more information can be found on our website). I accept that it 
must have been very frustrating for Mr H to have received incorrect information. And I agree 
that waiting a long time for responses to communications wasnt ideal. But I dont think better 
information would have resulted in a different outcome for Mr H in this case  in that the 
account should always have been closed.  I do though accept he was caused inconvenience 
by continuing to correspond with Virgin. Taking all of this into account, I think the £100 Virgin 
has offered Mr H is a fair way to settle things here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman