DRN-2328466
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs S says MBNA Limited mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs S 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs S representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs S. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think MBNA made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because MBNA has provided a copy of Mrs S direct mailing credit 
card application from 1999. Looking at this I can see Mrs S ticked the Yes box to 
indicate that she wanted PPI. The application didnt say or imply that PPI had to be taken 
out  so if Mrs S didnt want the cover she couldve ticked the equally prominent No box 
instead.
Because this was a postal sale Mrs S completed the application in her own time without 
any interaction from a member of MBNA staff  so taking everything into account Im 
satisfied Mrs S chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs S enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
I accept the the information MBNA gave Mrs S about the PPI overall wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs S  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover such as those for unusual employment circumstances or existing 
medical conditions. And the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought 
she was buying from the information she was given. 
While Mrs S has said she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
indicate the PPI wasnt affordable. Im mindful that Mrs S had limited means to make the 
repayments on her credit card if she wasnt working - so it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. For these reasons I dont think Mrs S would have 
declined the cover had MBNA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs S circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant MBNA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mrs S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs S individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs S particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means MBNA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman