DRN-4463744
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement hes been offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited following the theft of his motorhome.
What happened
Mr Ws home was broken into, the spare key for Mr Ws motorhome was taken and used to 
steal it from his driveway. Mr W made a claim to Admiral, his motorhome insurer.
Admiral initially offered Mr W £14,972 in settlement of his claim. Mr W was unhappy with 
this, and Admiral subsequently increased this to £23,112.48. However, Mr W remained 
unhappy with this, so he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said that Admirals 
settlement offer wasnt fair. He recommended this be increased by £6,887.52 as he thought 
that was a fairer amount based on all the information provided. 
Admiral didnt agree and the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr Ws policy terms outline that in the event of a claim, Admiral will pay up to the market 
value of the vehicle. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral initially offered Mr W £14,972 after excess deduction, and later made a further 
payment taking the settlement to £23,112.48, and they said that was fair based on the 
opinion of their motor engineer. It appears they may have used Autotrader to obtain an initial 
value and made some adjustments due to the low mileage of Mr Ws vehicle which resulted 
in the increase.
Mr W provided Admiral with examples of similar vehicles for sale. These had significantly 
higher mileage than Mr Ws vehicle (one was more than double and the other was more than 
triple), and these were for sale for more than Admiral had offered. Mr W says this supports 
his position that what hes been offered by Admiral isnt fair. He says his vehicle is worth 
more than these, given the lower mileage it has.
Deciding the market value of a vehicle isnt an exact science. Usually in cases this service 
considers about motor valuation disputes, as a starting point, wed take into account what 
four different industry trade guides say the market valuation is. Wed also take into account 
any other available information, such as expert or specialist reports or opinions, adverts and 
any other information available.
The difficulty I have here though in obtaining a valuation is that it doesnt feature in any of 
the trade guides this service has checked, so these cant be used as a starting point. And 
due to the specialist nature and rarity of Mr Ws vehicle, there is a very limited number of 
similar vehicles for sale currently. So, as there isnt a wide range of available similar vehicles 
for sale, and no trade guides to compare these against, using adverts isnt really a suitable 
way to determine what is a fair market value.
Due to the difficulties in obtaining a valuation through either the trade guides or adverts of 
current vehicles for sale, our investigator spoke to a specialist dealer in this field who has 
experience in selling this type of vehicle. 
They explained to our investigator that based on what theyd been told about Mr Ws vehicle, 
theyd be selling this for £30,000. They confirmed that they had sold previous vehicles with 
higher mileage for £29,000 and £30,000. And they had one of very few available for sale at 
the moment, near identical to Mr Ws, for sale for £29,995.
They also explained theyd sold one the previous year which wasnt the limited edition which 
Mr Ws was, with every panel scratched or dented, and twice the mileage, for around 
£26,000. Theyd also recently seen an example of a basic model for sale for £25,000 which 
required work to bring it to standard. 
So, Im persuaded, this indicates on balance, that the market value is significantly higher 
than that offered by Admiral.
Admiral were provided with the details of this specialist dealer, and their website including a 
link showing the vehicle near identical to Mr Ws for sale. Admirals engineer previously 
produced a valuation of £23,112.48, but Admiral havent demonstrated why this amount is a 
more accurate market value than the remaining information indicates. 
Given the specialist nature of the vehicle, the absence from the trade guides, the lack of 
available range of adverts due to the rarity of the vehicle, and that Admiral hasnt shown why 
their valuation is a fairer valuation in comparison to all the other available information, Im not 
persuaded the settlement Admiral has offered is fair.
Instead, Im persuaded on balance, having considered all the information provided, that 
relying on the information from the specialist dealer is reasonable here, and that £30,000 is a 
fair and reasonable valuation in all the circumstances to fairly settle the claim and complaint. 
As Admiral has already paid Mr W £23,112.48, theyd need to pay a further £6,887.52. 8% 
simple interest will also need to be added to this amount from when the last settlement was 
paid to the date of payment of the remainder of the settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Pay Mr W a further £6,887.52 for his vehicle
Add 8% simple interest* from the date of the previous settlement to the date of 
payment of the remainder* If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman