DRN-3026330
The complaint
Mr L complains that Entropay Limited (Entropay) did not help recover monies he had paid 
to a trading website which turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In February 2018, Mr L deposited a total of €3,250 (using his Visa electronic card linked to 
his account with Entropay) onto a trading website called Prestige.fm (Prestige).  He also 
deposited sums onto the website through two of his other banking providers.  Later that 
same month, Mr L discovered that all his money had gone from the trading platform and that 
he had been scammed.  Mr L says he has been able to recover the monies he deposited 
from his other banking providers  with the help from a dispute resolution body.  However, 
he has not been successful in recovering the €3,250 from Entropay, which is something he 
has complained about.
Entropay says it did attempt to help Mr L by processing a chargeback claim, but by the time 
he had raised this matter with it in November 2018  his claim was out of time under the Visa 
chargeback scheme rules.
Unhappy with Entropays position, Mr L referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  She appreciated that 
Mr L was the victim of a scam.  However, she considered that Mr L did not raise his dispute 
with Entropay within the time limits set out under the Visa scheme rules.  For this reason, 
she held that chargeback was not an option for Mr L, and so Entropay acted fairly by not 
taking his request for one any further.
Mr L did not accept our investigators findings.  His position, broadly, is that Entropay never 
made him aware of the timescales and that it is now exploiting them to avoid paying him.  He 
says he received refunds from his other banking providers, which is something our service 
should consider.  He also says a settlement in this case should be reached.
Our investigator responded saying there was no way Entropay would have known about the 
dispute until Mr L contacted it in November 2018.  She said Visa sets the time limits and that 
this is not something Entropay or our service can change.  Our investigator added that she is 
not able to look at the actions of the other banks Mr L had mentioned.  So, for these 
reasons, her position remained unchanged.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
I acknowledge Mr L says he was the victim of a scam.  However, this in itself does not 
automatically entitle Mr L to a claim under Visas chargeback scheme rules.  Chargeback is 
a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the 
merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments.  
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on 
which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas 
arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer 
acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on 
behalf of its cardholder.
Entropay says Mr Ls chargeback claim was rejected by its banks issuer because the claim 
was raised too late under the time limits set by Visa.  Entropay says it also tried to raise the 
chargeback under long term service to extend the time limits, but Mr L confirmed that he did 
not have a long-term service agreement with Prestige.
In my judgment, it was not unreasonable of Entropay to drop the chargeback claim after its 
first presentment failed and then it attempted the chargeback again under long-term service.  
I will explain why.
Under the time limits set by Visa, a cardholder must raise a chargeback claim within 120 
days from the date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services they paid 
for, or 120 days from date the cardholder was made aware they would not be provided.  In 
this instance, Mr L became aware the service he paid for would not be provided in February 
2018.  So, under the Visa time limits, Mr L would have had 120 days from this date to report 
his problem to Entropay.   However, he did not do so until November 2018.  Therefore, I am 
satisfied Mr Ls dispute was raised too late.  A longer time limit may apply where the 
cardholder received goods or services at a later date  the maximum length of time for a 
dispute to be raised is 540 days from the original transaction date.  However, a chargeback 
must still be raised within 120 days of when the cardholder was made aware the service they 
paid for had not been provided  this is something which Mr L did not do.
I acknowledge Mr L says Entropay should have made him aware of the Visa time limits 
earlier.  However, from what I have seen, Mr L first made Entropay aware of his problem in 
November 2018  by which time the 120-day time limit had already elapsed. 
So, taking all the above factors together, I am not persuaded that Entropay acted unfairly or 
unreasonable in connection with any rights or responsibilities under the Visa chargeback 
scheme.
Mr L says he would like our service to contact the banks which issued him refunds, as well 
as Prestige.  He would also like us to consider the outcome (which he has provided) reached 
by the dispute resolution body regarding the payments he made through his other banking 
providers.  Whilst I appreciate why Mr L wants us to do this, I am afraid it would make no 
material difference to the outcome of this complaint for the reasons I have already given.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman