DRN-3062988
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc irresponsibly increased the overdraft limit on his 
current accounts when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr D complained to Lloyds that it should not have increased the overdraft limits on his 
current accounts, hes said it was clear he was struggling with his financial commitments and 
that the charges Lloyds applied to his accounts made his situation worse. Lloyds didnt 
uphold the complaint. And as Mr D was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty when it reviewed his overdraft 
on account ending *2660 by May 2017. As a result, she felt Lloyds shouldnt have increased 
Mr Ds overdraft limit on either account after that point. Lloyds didnt respond so the case 
was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when lending and 
when applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Mr Ds overdrafts in May 2017 (for account ending *2660) and June 2017 (for account 
ending *6568. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr D was in no position to 
sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time and so shouldnt have 
been lent any further funds. Instead, I think Lloyds should have stepped in to stop Mr Ds 
position from deteriorating further. 
By this point, Mr D was hardcore borrowing on one of his accounts. In other, words he hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. His other account did 
briefly see a credit balance each month, but much of that credit balance was immediately 
used up to pay down the overdraft on the other account. Lloydss own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. So I think that Mr Ds overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have 
realised that he wasnt using his overdrafts as intended. I also note that Mr D was making 
regular payments to what appeared to be debt recovery agencies, and while this alone may 
not have been a reason not to give Mr D further overdraft limit increases, or to think that 
might need help in regaining control of his financial situation, I think the overall picture in 
2017 should have given Lloyds cause for concern. 
I understand that Mr D feels that earlier overdraft limit increases on his accounts were also 
irresponsible. But looking at his statements from when those earlier increases took place, Im 
satisfied that his accounts didnt show signs of difficulties like they did in 2017. So I dont 
think those earlier overdraft increases were irresponsible or unreasonable.
With all this in mind I think Lloyds shouldnt have increased Mr Ds overdraft limits, or 
continued offering the overdrafts on the same terms, when it reviewed Mr Ds overdraft limits 
in May and June 2017. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ds overdraft usage and instead 
increased his indebtedness and continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably.
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdrafts and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear them. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr D fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balances so that interest, fees and charges 
applied after May 2017 (for account *2660) and June 2017 (for account ending 
*6568) are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdrafts once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ds credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdrafts in May 2017 (account *2660) and June 
2017 (account *6568).
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
As Lloyds has sold the outstanding balances on these accounts to a third-party debt 
purchaser, it will need to either buy the accounts back from the third-party and make the 
necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Mr D an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Lloyds Bank plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman