DRN-3188656
The complaint
Mr G complains that Quays Wealth Management Limited (QWM) provided him with 
unsuitable advice about the transfer of some pension benefits from an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
Mr G held deferred pension benefits in an OPS. In 2018 he sought advice from QWM about 
the potential transfer of those benefits to a personal pension. At that time QWM recorded 
that Mr G;
Was aged 55 years
Was married with non-dependent children
Had an emergency fund to take care of unforeseen expenses
Had income from employment in excess of his monthly expenditure
Currently owned his own property with a small outstanding mortgage
Had other savings / investments / property valued at approximately £140,000
Was in a good state of health
Was a higher rate taxpayer
Had an attitude to risk that was assessed as being 3 (out of 10)
QWM recommended that Mr G should transfer his pension benefits from the OPS to a 
personal pension arrangement that facilitated flexi-access drawdown and provided him with 
advice about the investment of the transferred pension savings.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought it should be 
upheld. He said, in summary, that the starting point for an adviser was to assume that a 
transfer from a defined benefits pension scheme would be unsuitable. He said that an 
adviser therefore needed to clearly demonstrate that advice to transfer was in its clients best 
interests.
The investigator said that the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) reports said the critical yield 
required on the transfer value at the time of the advice was 8.4%. The investigator noted the 
advice was given shortly after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in pension transfer loss assessments. 
Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on 
our website. He said whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, he thought they provided a useful indication of what growth 
rates would have been considered reasonably achievable at the time that advice was given 
to Mr G. This discount rate was 3.7%.
He said that growth in excess of the critical yield was required to provide higher benefits than 
the OPS. In view of these figures, he thought the opportunity to improve on the OPS benefits 
was very limited.
Mr Gs objectives were recorded in the suitability report as flexibility and death benefits. The 
investigator said that he didnt think the firm had demonstrated that sacrificing the 
guarantees provided by the defined benefit OPS was in Mr Gs best interests.
The investigator said that weighing up all the evidence and the reasons given for 
transferring, he didnt think the firm should have recommended that Mr G transfer his 
pension benefits. He didnt think it was in Mr Gs best interests. He said he thought that if 
Mr G had been advised to stay in the OPS he would have done so.
QWM didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary, that:
The investigator appeared to have based his assessment on the critical yield. This 
wasnt in line with the FCAs approach. Although critical yield formed part of the 
overall advice process, the Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) set out 
other areas to consider when assessing suitability. 
Mr G was concerned about death benefits. He didnt think the OPS benefits were 
sufficient to support his family on his death. He wanted the ability to pass funds onto 
family members. The fact-find noted that if his wife pre-deceased him the pension 
would be lost on his death and not go to his children.
The discount rates referred to by the investigator had no relevance and didnt form 
part of the advice process.
The investigator said that having carefully considered the points QWM had raised, he wasnt 
persuaded to change his opinion that the complaint should be upheld. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process. If Mr G accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by QWM. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time QWM advised Mr G were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like QWM, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, QWM 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Gs 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to     
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and(3) a summary of any other material information.
In looking at the suitability of a transfer of Mr Gs pension benefits I think QWM gathered the 
necessary information from Mr G and the administrator of his OPS. It used that information 
to calculate what is known as the critical yield. In simple terms, that is the rate at which 
Mr Gs pension investments would need to grow after any transfer in order to replicate the 
benefits that he was giving up from the OPS. Portal estimated that for Mr G the critical yield 
would be 8.4%. 
QWM has said the transfer was suitable because it met Mr Gs objectives at the time (as Ive 
set out above). I accept that these are factors that should be taken into account in assessing 
suitability, but they need to be considered in the overall context of the transaction. The 
benefits offered by transferring to a personal pension have to be weighed up against the 
advantages of remaining in the OPS  they cant be considered in isolation. 
So whilst I agree with QWM that the likelihood of exceeding the benefits offered by the OPS 
isnt always the most important consideration, in the vast majority of cases the critical yield 
will still usually be a factor to consider as it provides context to the risks the transfer 
presents.
QWM used an industry tool to assess Mr Gs attitude to risk. After completion of that 
questionnaire it says it discussed the results with him. And as a result of those discussions 
QWM recorded that Mr G had an attitude to risk measured as 3, on a scale of 1 to 10. It 
described that measure as being low. 
The COBS rules required QWM to give suitable advice. It was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable for Mr G. In order to meet his 
investment objectives, the firm needed to consider Mr Gs preference for risk and his risk 
profile.
As our investigator has explained, the FCA provided advice to firms around that time as to 
how they might assess any losses arising from incorrect transfer advice. That guidance 
offered calculation methods for future discount rates. And around the time the advice was 
given, taking into account Mr Gs circumstances and age, I think a reasonable estimate of 
such a discount rate would have been less than 4%.
QWM is entirely correct to say that the discount rate wasnt part of the advice process, and it 
wasnt required to take it into account. But I do think it can reasonably be used in the context 
of this decision to provide an approximation of the degree of investment risk presented by 
the transfer in the circumstances at the time. So from that it would be reasonable to 
conclude that the investment growth that Mr G would need to achieve was significantly more 
than might be expected in his circumstances. 
The regulator also required firms to provide growth illustrations using standard nominal rates 
for low, mid, and high levels of growth. At the time the advice was provided those rates were 
2%, 5%, and 8% respectively. So I think those are also consistent with the transfer 
presenting a greater degree of risk than the low degree of risk that Mr G had indicated that 
he would be willing to take.The critical yield that was calculated showed the return required to merely match the benefits 
from the OPS. Mr Gs pension savings would have needed to be invested more in line with a 
balanced or even adventurous level of risk just to stand still. Even if the aim wasnt to 
improve on the OPS benefits, by transferring, Mr G would have to take a far higher level of 
risk, unless he effectively accepted it was likely hed receive lower pension benefits from the 
personal pension than the OPS in exchange for the flexibilities and benefits Ive explained 
above.
But this wasnt how the transaction was described in the suitability report. Mr G may have 
been told he was giving up guarantees by transferring. But I dont think he was alerted to the 
reality that he was likely giving up a higher future income from the OPS, in exchange for the 
benefits provided by the personal pension as described by QWM. The report misleadingly 
compared the deferred pension Mr G held in 2008 (without any calculation of the annual 
increases that would be added over the following 20 years) with an estimate of the personal 
pension that might be paid at age 65 following a transfer. 
Giving up those largely guaranteed benefits in exchange for investment related benefits was 
a risk in itself. It wouldnt usually be suitable to advise a client who only wanted a lower rate 
of risk to give up the valuable largely guaranteed benefits they already had. There would 
need to be good reasons to do so.
QWM has said there were good reasons; mainly that the flexibility offered by the personal 
pension allowed Mr G to phase in his retirement. And that the death benefits were better 
than those provided by the OPS, giving Mr G the opportunity to provide for both his wife, and 
his children, after his death. 
The fact-find noted that Mr G had concerns about losing the pension completely if his wife 
died before him. However Mr G could have remained in his OPS whilst his wife was still alive 
knowing that she would receive a 50% spouses pension. If his wife predeceased him, he 
could review the position at that time.
Mr G didnt give QWM any indication that he was considering retirement anytime soon  the 
fact find recorded that he thought he would work for another ten years. So it doesnt appear 
Mr G had any firm plans for when he wanted to start taking an income from his pension.
Mr G could have stayed in his OPS until either he needed to take some tax-free cash or an 
income from his pension. He had cash savings and another property providing rental 
income. Mr G told QWM that his income comfortably exceeded his normal expenditure. So 
Mr G had options available to him to provide flexibility.
I accept that taking the benefits prior to the normal retirement age of the OPS may have 
meant a lower pension. But Mr G could have considered his options about how to take 
benefits when they were needed, and without exposure to investment risk during the period 
up to taking those benefits. 
As Ive said above, Mr G was told in the suitability report that QWM thought the critical yield 
was achievable. So it wasnt the case that Mr G was told a transfer wasnt in line with the 
lower degree of risk he wanted to take. Or that there was a significant possibility the level of 
income the personal pension would provide would be lower that than the OPS but that QWM 
thought a transfer was suitable given the other benefits a personal pension provided. If he 
had been given that information he could have made an informed decision to accept a likely 
lower level of income in exchange for the flexibility and death benefits provided through the 
personal pension. QWM has said that the investigators findings arent in line with the FCAs approach to 
pension transfers. It considers its advice was in accordance with the FCAs DBAAT. As 
I have said above, whilst I accept the flexibility offered by the personal pension needed to be 
taken into account, the transaction needed to be considered in the whole  including its 
risks.
This is in line with the DBAAT which explained that COBS 9.2 required the firm to obtain 
information about Mr Gs investment objectives including his preferences for risk specific to 
the type of transaction. It says this might be obtained through an attitude to risk 
questionnaire that records the clients attitude to guaranteed income or guarantees in 
general. When Mr G completed the questionnaire he indicated that he agreed that he would 
rather know he was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain about his 
investments.
The DBAAT guidance said that the overarching requirement in COBS 9.2.1 was for the firm 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable for its client. It said 
the firm needed to consider its clients attitude to risk in relation to the investment growth 
required to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. And that where a TVAS 
showed the benefits of remaining in the scheme outweighed those likely to be available 
under the proposed arrangement, this would be a strong pointer against the transfer being in 
the clients best interests, unless there was some other compelling reason for the client to 
leave the OPS. 
I dont think that it was in Mr Gs best interests to give up the significant and largely 
guaranteed income that could have been provided by the OPS, in exchange for the benefits 
offered by the personal pension as QWM has described. In my view there werent any 
compelling reasons to transfer out of the OPS at the time that Mr G was given the advice by 
QWM.
Mr G already had some flexibility given his overall financial situation from his savings, his 
rental income, and his disposable income. He could have remained a deferred member of 
the OPS until he needed to access the benefits and without exposure to investment risk.
The transfer may have provided some extra flexibility, but that wasnt something that Mr G 
appeared to have needed at the time of transfer. The personal pension did provide different 
death benefits which I accept may have been attractive. However Mr G was recorded as 
being in good health, and he could have considered his position if his wife pre-deceased 
him. I accept that he would have been able to pass on the benefits in the personal pension 
on his death. But as I have said, this benefit needs to be weighed up against all the other 
risks and disadvantages of the transfer. 
Given the critical yield that QWM calculated there was a significant risk that if Mr G 
transferred out of the OPS the income from the personal pension would be lower. In my 
view, the risks of the transfer far outweighed the benefits gained. There was no urgent need 
to transfer out of the scheme at the time Mr G was advised. Mr G could have waited and 
considered all his options when he needed to access benefits  which presented a lot less 
risk.
So taking all this into account, I dont think the advice to transfer the benefits from the OPS 
to the personal pension was suitable. And, like the investigator, I think if QWM had suitably 
advised Mr G to stay as a deferred member of the OPS, which was aligned to the degree of 
risk that he wanted to take, he would more likely than not have remained in that scheme.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. QWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.  
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.  
QWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  expected to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from 
the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
QWM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes QWM 
to pay Mr G.  
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Until QWM completes its calculations I dont know the exact amount of compensation 
payable as a result of the steps set out above. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider are 
appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that 
might exceed £160,000, I can only recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award:
I require QWM to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require QWM to 
pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require QWM to pay 
Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: 
If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000 I also recommend that QWM pays Mr G the 
balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance 
to be paid to Mr G. 
If Mr G accepts my decision, the money award is binding on QWM. My recommendation is 
not binding on QWM. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Quays Wealth Management 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman