DRN-2829717
The complaint
Miss P has complained Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, has 
done nothing to help her after she complained her car was missold. She never wanted to 
buy the make or model of car she ended up with nor was she able to afford the hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
In 2018 Miss P had had her existing car  under a finance agreement  for three years. 
Shed got this as new. She was looking to get another car. And was particularly interested in 
buying a specific make. She approached a couple of different car dealers to look at her 
options. She even paid a deposit of £100 in mid-October 2018 to one dealer. As they were 
unable to source finance for her, no deal went through and the money was refunded at the 
end of October.
Miss P went to another dealer (who Ill call V) in late-October. They had a car  not the type 
she was particularly interested in  but another attractive car. She sat in it and allowed 
herself to be persuaded to look at other cars they had on the lot.
Miss P test drove a car and ended up buying it. She took out a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Car Finance for five years paying just over £340 a month. But even as she was 
leaving the dealers she was unhappy about how shed been treated. She felt shed been 
made to stay there for a number of hours until she signed up to the finance agreement. She 
believed her new car had cost her far too much as she was committed to more than £20,000 
worth of credit. She still had a car which was three years old rather than a newer car and 
was paying substantially more a month.
Within a short period Miss P lost her job and was having difficulty repaying her finance 
agreement. Oodle Car Finance started regular contact with Miss P to ensure she made up 
the arrears. She did this but continued to struggle to pay the agreement on a monthly basis.  
Shortly after May 2019 Miss P went into arrears again. She explored a number of options 
with Oodle Car Finance which would allow her to either swap the car for something else or 
make lower monthly payments.
Nothing proved successful and Oodle Car Finance told her they wouldnt allow lower 
monthly payments as they felt this would mean arrears would just build up.
Miss P brought her complaint to our service. She was upset about being made to buy a car 
shed never wanted. She told us she believed it had been missold to her. She also couldnt 
afford to make the repayments.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. Taking into account the relevant rules in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, she believed Oodle Car Finance hadnt carried out sufficient 
checks into whether Miss P could afford the hire purchase agreement. However she didnt 
think, if theyd done additional checks, this would have had any impact. She thought the 
figures showed Miss P could afford the agreement. She wasnt going to ask Oodle Car 
Finance to do anything further.
Miss P stressed how difficult this whole experience had been. Shed had a lot of debts by the 
time she took out the agreement with Oodle Car Finance. She had only been able to make 
any repayments to them by relying on the help and money a friend had given her. Shed 
declared the car off road not long after shed got it as she couldnt afford to use it.
Miss Ps complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 March 2021. I believed the evidence showed Oodle 
Car Finance hadnt carried out an effective affordability assessment when considering 
Miss Ps application. The finance agreement proved to be unaffordable and Oodle Car 
Finance should take the car back and cancel the finance agreement.
Miss P accepted this conclusion. No response was received from Oodle Car Finance. I 
asked for some additional evidence from Miss P including what the mileage on her car 
currently stood at.
I completed a further provisional decision on 4 May 2021. The mileage evidence Miss P had 
provided suggested shed continued to use the car. I amended the resolution I was 
recommending in terms of refunds that Oodle Car Finance should make. This means that no 
interest can be added to Miss Ps monthly repayments. This gave both parties a short period 
to make further comments.
Miss P confirmed she had continued to need to use the car but was only able to afford 
insurance on a daily basis as and when she needed to use the car. This has obviously 
proved to be expensive option. Shed also had to rely on her friend to help her out financially. 
She also provided evidence to show her car details had been cloned and were triggering 
penalty notices (which the police confirmed werent hers).
Oodle Car Finance confirmed they received the decision but made no further comments.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my second provisional decision. 
Ive made this decision taking into account Miss Ps situation.
Firstly the central part of Miss Ps complaint when she came to us was that the car was 
misrepresented to her and she was pressured into buying it.
I have considered this. The evidence suggests she wasnt necessarily told the whole truth 
about the car she test drove. It had a high mileage  almost 85,000  for a car that was only 
three years old. Miss P has confirmed she asked about this and was just told it was a car 
designed for driving which is an interesting explanation.
In fact as Miss P subsequently discovered, this had been a lease car so this materially 
differs from the idea that the car had only one previous owner (and therefore implied to have 
just one driver). I believe she didnt discover this until September 2020 so quite some time 
after the initial purchase. But I appreciate she may have taken a different decision to buy this 
car if shed known the truth.
Im also aware that Miss P has been consistent in her story to us about never wanting this make or model in the first place. She was particularly interested in buying something else. 
Her bank statements show shed paid a deposit to another dealer (which was subsequently 
refunded). But as she was turned down for finance she was looking at other dealers. Shed 
been looking for that type of car at V when she sat in a completely different car just to see. 
She thinks  and I suspect she may be right  that the salesmen thought she would be 
persuadable into a completely different model.
How the car was sold and what Miss P thought at the time are difficult issues to consider.  
And whilst Ive taken these into account, I believe the main aspect is the unaffordability 
aspects and these dictate the resolution I believe is fair and reasonable. I should stress that 
even if Id been able to reach a fair and reasonable outcome on the misrepresentation 
aspects, the outcome Ive reached below would have been the same.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Oodle Car Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss P would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss P could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Oodle Car Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Miss P has been disadvantaged in any way by Oodle Car Finances actions, Ill go 
onto consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Oodle Car Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss P would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Oodle Car Finance were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ps ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needed to be concerned with whether Miss P could sustainably afford the borrowing 
(considering her specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to Oodle Car Finance as the lender, or their credit risk but this is 
not necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; andThe consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount repayable was over £20,600, repayable over five years. The APR was 
20.7%. This was a relatively long-term and costly commitment. My starting point is therefore 
that any reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been quite 
thorough.
Oodle Car Finance has provided us with details of the checks carried out prior to lending to 
Miss P. They said that Miss P declared she was living with her parents and earning a 
monthly salary of around £1,850. They said they carried out a credit check to understand 
what Miss Ps current credit commitments were and to see how she was managing them.
I can see that Oodle Car Finance checked Miss Ps bank statement for one month from 
15 September to 15 October 2018. This is how they, I presume, calculated and verified her 
income. Miss P was paid weekly and during that period just slightly more than £1,055 
credited her bank account. At no stage did Oodle Car Finance ask for copies of payslips 
from Miss P.
They also didnt complete an income and expenditure assessment. Oodle Car Finance has 
confirmed they used their own affordability model which estimates a customers likely 
monthly expenditure taking into account her monthly income. 
I suspect this affordability model is more akin to assessing the credit risk Miss P posed 
rather than considering Miss Ps specific circumstances as required by CONC.
However they did use credit reference agency data which they said showed that Miss P 
didnt have any credit commitments after the settlement of the [existing] HP aside from £19 
communication (sic).
They also stated The lack of any serious adverse, defaults, ccjs and the low indebtedness 
on their credit file as well the good historic repayment performance that customer indicated 
in the past contributed to the higher score for the customer.
Ive not seen a copy of Miss Ps credit record for this time so cant verify this was what her 
credit record stated. I do know if what Oodle Car Finance is telling us is correct, her credit 
record didnt take into account at least one loan for which Miss P was paying £154 per 
month (which then rose to over £300 at the same time as this credit agreement started). 
Oodle Car Finance says they estimated Miss Ps disposable income to be £464. So they 
assessed her as able to meet the repayments of around £340 per month under the hire 
purchase agreement as this would mean shed repaid her existing hire purchase. 
But I can see from two cursory glances at Miss Ps finances that the information Oodle Car 
Finance was reviewing wasnt necessarily correct or up-to-date. Miss Ps communication 
agreement wasnt just costing her £19 a month. Her bank statement for the period Oodle Car 
Finance reviewed showed this to cost her £60. There was also evidence of at least one loan 
 a payment of £154.59 on 1 October 2018  which I cant see was taken into account.
Overall, I dont think Oodle Car Finance completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
when thinking about the amount of information and supporting evidence they gathered to 
assess Miss Ps creditworthiness. As there were a couple of discrepancies between what they thought they were seeing and the bank statement, Id have expected them to have 
carried out further checks to assess Miss Ps affordability.
Did Oodle Car Finance make a fair lending decision?
So having looked at further information  which Oodle Car Finance didnt gather  I have 
significant concerns about their decision the lending was affordable and sustainable.
Her salary over the three months prior to Miss P taking out the finance with Oodle Car 
Finance averaged £1,150 a month but varied considerably. This was a job Miss P had only 
had a few months and I suspect its likely she was on a zero hours contract. What Id have 
expected Oodle Car Finance to be considering is what ability Miss P had to meet any 
financial shocks or life changes. I can see no evidence they did this.
Miss Ps bank statements alone show Miss P spent all the money she earned. They also 
show Miss P was regularly overdrawn. These suggest she wasnt in a financially robust 
position and would struggle if anything happened to cause issues.
And this is what happened very quickly after Miss P signed her finance agreement. She lost 
her job and over November and December 2018 earned less than £600 a month. By Oodle 
Car Finances own calculations, this meant Miss P was unable to make her repayments. 
How Oodle Car Finance came to the conclusion that Miss Ps financial situation indicated a 
sustainable and affordable arrangement is baffling. 
I can also see Miss P topped up her existing loan with a loan provider on the day after taking 
out the hire purchase agreement. This clearly suggests to me this was unaffordable from the 
very start.
Im also aware Miss P had applied for credit elsewhere and had been rejected by the time 
she took out the finance with Oodle Car Finance. Possibly on more than one occasion. Im 
not sure Oodle Car Finance took note of the clear footprints this would have left on Miss Ps 
credit record. 
Overall, I dont think Oodle Car Finance took appropriate consideration of the information 
they had gathered  or could have gathered  about Miss Ps financial circumstances. 
Clearly Miss P was struggling financially and had to resort to various forms of credit. This 
involved a loan from a friend of more than £2,135. Theres no evidence Oodle Car Finance 
wondered where this came from or how Miss P would ever repay this money. This loan was 
clear on the statement Oodle Car Finance had available to them. I think they interpreted this 
information inappropriately.
Given all of the above, I dont think Oodle Car Finance made a fair lending decision and they 
shouldnt have approved the hire purchase agreement.
For completeness, its clear Miss P struggled to make repayments for the first few months. 
Although she repaid her arrears in May 2019, she soon fell into arrears again. This alone 
would demonstrate the lending was unsustainable.
Oodle Car Finance needed to ensure Miss P could afford to sustainably repay the borrowing 
without causing her financial difficulty or the need to borrow further. I think they didnt collect 
sufficient information during the application process to realise Miss P was not in a position to 
sustainably repay this agreement. And if they had carried out those additional checks, they 
wouldnt have granted the borrowing.
Did Oodle Car Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?Ive looked, as stated already, about the misrepresentation of the car at the beginning of the 
agreement but dont think that has a bearing on what Im going to ask Oodle Car Finance to 
do to put things right. But I am taking into account actions Oodle Car Finance took to try and 
recoup the arrears after the event.  
I can see Miss P was unwilling to complete an income and expenditure but Id still have 
expected Oodle Car Finance to have done more to try and resolve the issues Miss P had 
when she found the lending was unaffordable. When lending is unaffordable, financial 
institutions are obliged to treat a customer sympathetically. 
Putting things right
Firstly Oodle Car Finance will need to cancel the finance agreement and make 
arrangements to collect the car from Miss P.
As I think Oodle Car Finance shouldnt have lent to Miss P, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to now refund everything she has paid towards the agreement, minus a 
deduction for any fair use of the car she had during that time.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage might be. But in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest and charges applied to the 
agreement, the amount of mileage Miss P covered while in possession of the car and what 
reasonable costs she would likely have incurred instead if shed never entered into this 
agreement but had to secure transport. 
Miss P said she quickly stopped using the car and its been marked as off-road for some 
time. Miss P said she only drove around 10,000 miles in the car as well as having paid for a 
new battery and other repairs. 
However this isnt quite the case. The car was declared off-road on 1 November 2020. The 
odometer currently reads 115,315. This means in just over two years Miss P completed over 
30,000 miles: above average mileage. I dont doubt this was all necessary. Shes confirmed 
to us that she needed a car to transport her to work when she was able to get employment 
and to take her mother to medical appointments. 
But this has an impact on the redress I will be asking Oodle Car Finance to sort out.
I think an amount of £100 per month needs to be taken from her account for each month 
Miss P had use of the car. I believe overall this reflects the interest she paid for her 
unaffordable credit agreement. This equates to just under 30% of the amount Miss P should 
have been paying a month and I believe is fair and reasonable. As Miss Ps car has been 
off-road since 1 November 2020, I believe no payments should be due from that date 
onwards. 
Anything Miss P paid in excess of £241.99 per month for the relevant timescale should be 
treated as an overpayment and refunded to her. Oodle Car Finance should also add 8% 
simple interest a year to each overpayment from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement.
Lastly, as Miss P should never have been allowed to enter into this finance agreement it isnt 
fair for Oodle Car Finance to record any adverse information in relation to her finance 
agreement on Miss Ps credit file.
I appreciate that overall as Miss P stopped paying for the car some time ago, its more than 
likely she will end up owing money to Oodle Car Finance for the credit agreement. As her financial position remains precarious, they will need to enter into a repayment agreement 
with her to assess what she can reasonably afford to repay. I would expect Oodle Car 
Finance to provide Miss P with a full statement of whats owed. I would advise Miss P to 
ensure she provides full information to allow an income and expenditure plan to be 
completed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
Cancel the finance agreement with Miss P;
Make arrangements to collect the car from Miss P;
Refund all payments Miss P has made towards the hire purchase agreement, except 
for £241.99 per month for the time she was using the car up to 1 November 2020 (no 
payments are to be taken after this time); 
Pay Miss P 8% simple interest a year on each amount she paid in excess of £241.99 
per month, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement; and
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit record in relation to this hire 
purchase agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman