DRN-4324348
The complaint
Miss T complains that Revolut Ltd hasnt refunded her the money she lost after she fell 
victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here.
In brief, Miss T has explained that in February 2023 scammers persuaded her that her bank 
account was compromised, and they tricked her into making payments from an account she 
held with another banking provider to her Revolut account, and from her Revolut account to 
accounts that were controlled by the fraudsters.
The relevant payments from Miss Ts Revolut account were as follows:
25 February 2023 £4.71
25 February 2023 £6,706.00
Miss T raised the matter with Revolut and it issued its final response in March 2023 not 
upholding her complaint. In summary it said this was because it had provided warnings and 
that Miss T had been negligent. Revolut also tried to recover the money lost from the 
beneficiary account (the account to which the payments were made), but the beneficiary 
bank told it that only £10.71 of the money was recoverable.
Unhappy with Revoluts response Miss T brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary, it was her view that, while she recognised the payment was made as a result of 
fraud, she didnt think Revolut should reasonably have been expected to prevent payment 
one (for £4.71). She said this as she didnt think it would have appeared to be so unusual or 
out of character to Revolut that it could have identified the payment was being made in 
relation to a scam.
But although our Investigator acknowledged that Revolut had gone some way in attempting 
to warn Miss T, when she made her second payment for £6,706, she didnt think it had gone 
far enough. In summary, she thought Revolut should have made further enquiries with    
Miss T before allowing the payment to be progressed and, if it had done so, she thought the 
scam would have been uncovered.
Our Investigator recommended that Revolut refund the second payment to Miss T, along 
with interest. Our Investigator also liaised with Revolut about the service it had provided       
Miss T, following which it offered to pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience for the 
length of time it took them to log the scam and for the support it gave Miss T. Our 
Investigator thought this offer of £100 was fair.
Miss T agreed with our Investigators view, but Revolut disagreed. In summary, it maintained 
that it had provided Miss T with warnings at the time she made the payment. It added that 
she was explicitly told that Revolut would never call her and she ignored that information. It 
didnt think it would have made a difference if she was asked open ended questions and 
there was no guarantee that open ended questions would have uncovered the scam.
As agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint in part, for broadly the same 
reasons as the Investigator.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
It is the case that Miss T authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Miss T is responsible for them. That remains the case 
even though Miss T was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Taking the above into consideration, in this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss T when she made the two transfers to a new 
payee, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Did Revolut act fairly and reasonably in this case?As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Revolut should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether I think Revolut should have intervened. Revolut has a difficult 
balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that 
might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. When Miss T made the first 
transfer, of £4.71, to the scammer, there wasnt anything unusual or remarkable about the 
transfer or the amount, when compared to her typical account activity, that ought to have 
alerted Revolut to the possibility Miss T was being scammed. It was a low value transfer and 
Miss T had made previous transfers from her account. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for it to have not flagged as potentially suspicious to Revolut.
But at the point Miss T made the second payment, just a couple of minutes later, for £6,706, 
it represented a significant departure from how she usually ran her account. I am mindful 
that a common theme to a scam - especially a safe account scam  is that a scammer tries 
to gain as much money from unsuspecting victims as is possible. So where there are 
multiple payments or transfers made in quick succession, it is a possible indication to a bank 
or building society that their customer could be at risk of financial harm.
There isnt really any disagreement about this point, as Revolut has confirmed the second 
payment was flagged and declined by its systems. With this in mind, I have to consider 
whether Revolut did enough once it suspected there was a high risk of fraud.
As Ive said, I acknowledge Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its 
systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than 
usual risk of fraud and for when it ought to intervene. And I accept that a bank does have a 
duty under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay payments or transfers unduly. But 
it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable checks are also required as part of 
the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of 
fraud or  financial harm.
Im mindful there is a limit as to what a Firm can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers  
to take responsibility for their own decisions. But when plain triggers of unusual or 
uncharacteristic account activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a Firms fraud alerts to 
respond proportionately. While, in the individual circumstances of this case, it is finely 
balanced I dont think the warnings Revolut presented or its interventions went far enough 
and Im persuaded it ought, fairly and reasonably, to have done more here.
Revolut did, at least in part, attempt to warn Miss T about the type of scam she was falling 
victim to. And Miss T responded to these warnings to confirm she was aware of the warning 
it had given and answered no to a question about whether she had been called by any bank 
claiming that her account wasnt safe. However Im not persuaded the warnings it provided 
were good enough to have resonated with Miss T, nor that this intervention was enough. I 
say that because the warnings were lengthy in nature and while some were specific to safe 
account scams, they also mentioned a number of other scam types and were at times asking 
Miss T several questions about different scam types all within the body of one message. Im 
also mindful here that Miss T has said she was being coached by the fraudster to move 
passed these warnings, which she was able to do by simply giving yes or no answers as 
instructed by the fraudster.
However, in these circumstances, given the unusual nature of the payment, Im persuaded 
Revolut shouldve asked open and probing questions, not closed questions where the 
answer was yes or no. Miss T had selected something else as the reason for the payment. 
But from the evidence Ive seen, at no point, did Revolut probe this further to ask what the actual purpose of the payment was. I think, given the unusual nature of the payment, the red 
flags that were present and considering Revoluts security system had held the transaction, 
that its fair and reasonable to say that Revolut ought to have explored this further.
I think that if Revolut had probed further its more likely than not that the scam wouldve been  
uncovered. I say this because, particularly in the case of safe account scams, consumers 
are often told to lie which Revolut shouldve been alive to. Importantly here though the 
fraudster hadnt provided Miss T with a cover story. So while the fraudster was able to 
quickly coach Miss T to respond with one-word answers to the closed questions Revolut was 
asking. I dont think this would have been possible had Revolut had asked more probing and 
open questions.
Its quite possible that had Revolut asked Miss T what the actual purpose of the payment 
was she would have told it she was moving her money to keep it safe, in which case it would 
have been quite clear to Revolut that it was a scam. But even if I consider that she was 
being coached and that she could have reverted to the fraudster about how she should 
answer any further questions. I dont think she would have been able to respond to Revolut 
plausibly and promptly about the purpose of the payment, nor about any follow up questions 
Revolut could and ought to have asked.
I think it more likely than not there would have been a discernible delay with any answers 
when compared to how promptly Miss T had answered the previous closed questions, which 
I think would have just gone to compound the concerns that Revolut ought to have had. 
Alongside this if Miss T were to have referred to the fraudster about how to respond, its 
likely the fraudster would have given her a cover story to tell  in which case, it would have 
begged the question to Miss T as to why, who she thought was her bank, was telling her not 
to give an honest answer.
Overall, while in the individual circumstances of this case it is finely balanced, Im persuaded 
that its more likely than not that more open and probing questioning by Revolut would have 
resulted in the scam coming to light and Miss T wouldnt have lost the money from this 
second payment.
Should Miss T bear some responsibility for the loss?
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Miss T should bear some responsibility for her loss. Miss T has 
explained and provided evidence of the telephone number and calls she received which all 
appeared genuine (as a result of number spoofing). Miss T says the fraudster she spoke to 
also knew details about her.
All things considered, Miss T was the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. I am satisfied 
she believed she was liaising with Revolut at the time and didnt foresee the risk of this sort 
of harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. So, on the particular facts of this 
individual case, I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for some of the loss due to 
any blameworthy acts or omissions by Miss T.
Finally, Revolut has recognised the service it provided Miss T could have been better and in 
recognition of this agreed with our Investigator to offer Miss T £100. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold, in part, Miss Ts complaint against Revolut Ltd.
I now direct Revolut Ltd to:- Refund Miss T £6,706 being the money lost from the second payment (less any 
sums that have potentially being recovered subsequently and returned to Miss T).
- Pay additional interest on that amount at 8% simple interest. This should be 
calculated from the date Miss T made the transfer (the date of the loss) until the date 
of settlement. 
- Pay Miss T £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Revolut Ltd must give 
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman