DRN-3079391
The complaint
Ms F complains about the way Esure Insurance Limited has handled a claim she made on 
her motor insurance policy following an accident.  
What happened
In March 2020 Ms F was involved in an accident. Initially, Esure were dealing with the claim 
and made Ms F a settlement offer for the repairs needed on the vehicle. 
Ms F raised a complaint about the settlement offer and returned the cheque to Esure as she 
didnt want to accept it. This complaint was brought to our service and considered 
separately. Ms F decided not to pursue the claim through Esure and instead used the third-
party insurer, who Ill refer to as A.
In June 2021, Esure responded to a further complaint from Ms F. Shed complained that 
whilst dealing with A, it had told her it couldnt settle her claim because shed already 
received a settlement from Esure. 
Esure said it had correctly placed a stop on the cheque sent to Ms F after she declined to 
accept it. It said as a non-fault claim, it did receive costs from A in September 2020, but this 
amount was returned to them a few days later, as it should have been. It disputed that it told 
A that Ms Fs claim had been settled. Unhappy with Esures response, Ms F brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator said anything considered under a previous complaint with our service 
couldnt be revisited. But said she didnt think Esure, as Ms Fs insurer, had provided enough 
support in helping her pursue her claim against A. So she thought it should pay £100 
compensation for unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to Ms F. 
Ms F accepted this, but Esure didnt. It said it had ceased dealing with the claim once Ms F 
had told them she was pursuing it with A, and this is normal process. 
As Esure didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to both parties if I set out the remit of this decision. Firstly, like our 
investigator, I wont revisit any issues which were dealt with under a previous complaint. So 
whilst Ms F is frustrated with the overall claim process, Im only looking at the issues 
addressed by Esure in its final response of June 2021. I also, as part of this complaint, cant 
look at the actions of A or require it do anything, as I have no power to do so. 
Ms F has raised concerns about when Esure cancelled the cheque it sent to her. It seems 
that she returned the cheque to Esure at the start of April 2020, but it wasnt stopped until 
around two months later. I accept theres a delay here, but I dont think this has resulted in 
Ms Fs claim not being paid by A. A told Ms F that Esure had settled the claim in an email in 
June 2021, this was months after Esure had cancelled the cheque and returned the payment 
it received from A. So I dont think Esures late cancellation of the cheque is the cause of the 
delay in Ms Fs claim being settled. 
I also dont think Esure did tell A that the claim had been settled by them in 2021. I havent 
seen any evidence that A asked Esure about the claim in June 2021 and it gave incorrect 
information. So whilst Ms F thinks Esure lied to A about this, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest this is the case. 
A told our investigator that whilst it had received the settlement money back from Esure, the 
amount had been reduced by £84 and it didnt know why, it also needed some more detail 
which it hadnt been able to get from Esure. Our investigator asked Esure if it could clarify 
matters with A, to enable Ms Fs claim with them to move forward, it didnt respond to this  
Ultimately, whilst Ms F has decided she doesnt want to deal with Esure, Id expect Esure to 
contact A to provide it the information it needs to progress Ms Fs claim. Esure has told this 
service the reason it sent a lower settlement offer back to A was because it deducted £84, 
which it was entitled to do, as this was its cost for its repairer to carry out an estimate. I 
havent seen any evidence that Esure has provided this information to A, and I find it could 
have done so earlier.  
I find that had Esure confirmed to A why the amount it was sending back was lower than the 
amount received, it could have moved the claim on for Ms F quicker. This service has asked 
Esure if it will liaise with A to help Ms F receive her pay out, and it said it had rightly ceased 
all dealing with the claim as Ms F wasnt pursuing it through A. I dont agree thats 
reasonable. I consider if further information is needed by A to assist Ms F, then Esure should 
try to assist. So to resolve this complaint I direct Esure to contact A to see what information it 
needs from it to be able to settle Ms Fs claim. 
Its clear this matter has caused a great deal of inconvenience to Ms F, some of which I dont 
think Esure are responsible for. But I think had it been proactive in contacting Aviva when 
Ms F complained in June 2021, things could have been moved on quicker. So I think it 
should pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience its caused Ms F by not liaising with A.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Esure Insurance Limited to contact A to assist Ms F in having 
her claim resolved.
It also needs to pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman