DRN-4395830
The complaint
Ms D complains, via a legal representative, that The Tavistock Partnership Limited 
(Tavistock) gave her unsuitable advice to transfer the deferred benefits in an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension scheme (PPS). Ms Ds legal representative 
says that Ms D may have been caused a financial loss by the advice to transfer.
What happened
Ms D approached an Independent Financial Adviser (Firm A) in 2017 who referred her to 
Tavistock in order to discuss the transferring of the deferred benefits that she held in an 
OPS. These benefits were defined benefits and any recommendation regarding a transfer 
had to be from a suitably authorised Firm.
Tavistock carried out a fact-find to gather information about Ms Ds circumstances, as well 
as having the background provided by Firm A. It ascertained the following facts about Ms D:
She was aged 57
She was divorced
She expected to retire around age 67
She was self-employed earning around £60,000 a year and had monthly expenditure 
around £2,000
She had an interest only mortgage with £285,000 capital to repay in 17 years, on a 
residence valued around £625,000
She had no other savings, investments or pension plans
Tavistock established that Ms D had the following objectives:
To access a tax free cash (TFC) part of her pension straight away to enable her to 
reduce her mortgage and restructure the remaining debt as a repayment mortgage to 
be paid off in 10 years instead of 17.
To be able to nominate her non-dependent children and grandchildren as 
beneficiaries of her remaining pension fund so that it would not be lost at the point 
that she passed away.
Tavistock confirmed the above circumstances and objectives with Ms D in writing.
Tavistock carried out an assessment of Ms Ds attitude to risk (ATR) for this pension which it 
found to be medium to high. Tavistock issued a suitability report to Ms D in December 2017. 
It recommended that a transfer was suitable in Ms Ds circumstances. It recommended that 
Ms D transfer to a PPS. Tavistock understood that Firm A would advise Ms D regarding the 
investment of her residual pension fund and would provide her with ongoing advice. It 
established the investment that Firm A proposed which it agreed was in line with its 
assessment of Ms Ds ATR.
Ms D followed Tavistocks recommendation. She explains that she was happy with the 
advice and the result. But has since been told by her legal representative that the advice she 
was given may have been unsuitable. The legal representative complained to Tavistock on 
Ms Ds behalf in November 2022. The reasons it gave for complaining were:
Ms D wasnt a high earner so a PPS wasnt suitable
As Ms D was divorced there was no one to support her in retirement
Ms D didnt have enough working years to recover from any investment losses in her 
pension
Ms D had a low capacity for loss and a low ATR
Tavistock failed to properly understand Ms Ds overall financial situation
Tavistock investigated Ms Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. It explained that its advice was 
suitable as it enabled Ms D to meet her objectives. She was able to restructure her mortgage 
to a repayment mortgage. And she has the flexibility of income that she wanted. 
Our investigator wasnt able to resolve the complaint in a way that Tavistock accepted so the 
case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. I looked into what happened and issued a 
provisional decision explaining why I didnt think that Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. 
And gave both parties the opportunity to comment further or provide additional evidence 
before I made a final decision.
Neither Tavistock or Ms Ds legal representative provided any further evidence or any 
additional arguments for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the circumstances in this case fully and my final decision remains the 
same as the decision I provisionally gave. And for the same reasons, which I set out as 
follows.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. 
And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a defined benefits OPS 
transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive come to the opinion that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tavistock 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Ms Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Tavistock to recommend that it most likely was.
Financial viability 
Tavistock have shown us the questionnaire that Ms D completed in order to determine her 
ATR. And the end result giving her a risk score of 5 on a scale of 1 to 7. Ive no reason to 
doubt that Ms D completed the questionnaire honestly and it reflected her ATR at that time. 
But I can also see that Tavistocks suitability report reflects that it discussed the ATR further 
with Ms D and thought that taking a medium approach to risk would be more suitable. Given 
this was her main pension for retirement, I think this was fair. Her capacity to recover from 
significant investment loss was hampered by the fact she had around 10 more working 
years. But it was a long enough term to make a medium investment risk suitable and within 
her assessed ATR. I can see that Tavistock enquired with Firm A about the intended 
investment agreeing a medium risk approach. Overall I think this was fair.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I think they provide a useful indication of what growth rates should have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Ms Ds benefits at age 65 was 3.96% if she took a full 
pension and 3.4% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. I know that Ms D took her TFC 
early, but even if she had not, I think its more likely than not that she would have done so at 
her schemes normal retirement age regardless. I say this because she had £285,000 capital 
to repay on her mortgage at the end of its term. She had no other means to pay or reduce 
that other than by using the largest TFC available from this pension scheme. So I think the 
lower critical yield is the most relevant.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 3.4% per year for 7 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Ms Ds 
medium ATR and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Ms D giving up 
the guarantees available to her through her OPS only to achieve, at best, the same level of 
benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 3.4%, I think it was 
borderline whether Ms D was likely to improve on the overall benefits of the OPS at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.Tavistock provided cashflow models for Ms D which it says showed she wouldve been able 
to meet her needs in retirement through taking a drawdown income. Ive considered this and 
think that Tavistock took care to check whether or not Ms D would be able to meet her 
anticipated expenditure in retirement following the transfer. It considered her retiring at 67 
(as it had been told Ms D intended) by which time she expected her restructured mortgage 
to be redeemed. It anticipated her expenditure still being £2,000 a month (even though that 
current expenditure figure included mortgage repayments). It showed that, even assuming 
the lower projected investment returns, her residual pension fund would be around £200,000 
at age 91, or £500,000 if medium projected investment returns were achieved. Overall, I 
think that Tavistock went to reasonable lengths to confirm that Ms Ds needs could be met in 
the longer term as well as her immediate objectives.
Tavistocks recommendation to Ms D was that the critical yield of 3.96% was achievable. 
But, as I indicated above, I think that it was borderline. If Ms D wanted to take benefits in the 
same format, it was far from clear that she could improve on her scheme benefits at the 
scheme retirement age of 65, or even perhaps her intended retirement age of 67. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice; there might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable. In this instance, the income 
modelling did make it likely that, by taking benefits in a different way, she was likely to be 
able to achieve her required level of income. Although that would be dependent on 
investment returns which were not guaranteed. But I dont think the financial viability test in 
this case made this transfer so obviously unsuitable that other reasons may not have made it 
in Ms Ds best interests.
Flexibility
Ms D had an outstanding mortgage with a 17 year term. It was an interest only mortgage, 
with a capital sum of £285,000. It meant that Ms D would still be paying her mortgage until 
age 74 and at that stage be left with the capital sum still to be paid. I havent seen any 
evidence that Ms D had an alternative plan to pay that debt. Other than, perhaps, being 
forced to sell her home. She would still, of course have equity from that sale, but that doesnt 
mean that Ms D would want to be left with that option. Ms D didnt have any savings or other 
assets she couldve used to restructure her mortgage in the way she wanted. I understand 
that Ms D was being advised separately on her mortgage. But I cant see that Tavistock 
considered or costed that as well. However, taking out a repayment mortgage for £285,000 
over the remaining 10 years that Ms D planned to work would, most likely, have been 
prohibitively expensive. It certainly seems that the affordability for Ms Ds plan to repay her 
mortgage and capital over 10 years depended on her accessing at least £130,000 TFC 
straight away.
Tavistock identified that Ms Ds OPS would provide her with a similar TFC sum at age 65 as 
well as an income around £22,000. But accessing a similar amount of TFC at 65 would only 
leave Ms D with around 2 years in which to restructure and repay her mortgage if her 
intention was to clear it by the time she stopped working. Which wouldnt have been as 
suitable a way to meet her objectives. She may instead have been able to have restructured 
to a repayment mortgage over a longer term. But Im not sure that would have been more 
suitable for her either. And would have impacted her adversely by her having to continue 
making mortgage payments for years after she stopped working.
Overall I think that Tavistock fairly considered Ms Ds overall circumstances and her 
requirements. She was of an age where she was able to access her pension and had a 
persuasive reason for needing TFC at that time. The fact that Ms D wanted to do so, or may 
have thought it was a good idea, didnt mean that Tavistock should have recommended it. 
Tavistock instead needed to use its expertise to compare what she was giving up with what she stood to gain and make a recommendation on whether what she wanted to do was in 
her best interests. And in this case I think that is what Tavistock did.
Tavistock clearly considered and explained the benefits available through the OPS. And 
made it clear they were guaranteed. It identified that Ms D needed to pay off her mortgage, 
including the remaining capital. That debt would need to be paid for out of her income, and I 
dont think it was inherently unsuitable to do that, in part, using income from her pension if 
there was no obvious alternative. And, in this case, I cant see that there was. So, on 
balance, Im satisfied this was necessary in the circumstances. And as Ms D didnt intend to 
retire fully until 67, I think she would be able to draw enough income from the personal 
pension to meet her needs in retirement.
Death benefits
Ms D was single and did not have any dependent children. She was clear with the adviser 
that she did not have any need for the spouses or dependents pension that the DB scheme 
provided. So, I dont think losing these benefits was likely to disadvantage Ms D. I think she 
preferred the ability to pass on whatever remained of her pension fund to beneficiaries of her 
choice on her death. Ive considered that Ms D may have gone on to remarry before 
reaching age 65, but that was an unknown, and Ms D was clear to Tavistock and our 
investigator that her preferred beneficiaries on death were her adult children. But were that 
to change, her nominated beneficiary could alternatively be her spouse were her 
circumstances to change.
I would expect Tavistock to have considered whether there were alternative ways for Ms D 
to provide a similar level of death benefit that may have been more suitable. And I can see 
from the suitability report that it gave Ms D that it had explored the option of a separate life 
assurance policy that might provide a similar level of cover. It discounted it because it wasnt 
a cost effective alternative. Which I think was reasonable.
Summary
Overall I think that the Financial Viability of Ms Ds transfer was finely balanced. It was 
possible that Ms D might have achieved a level of growth to be able to match the benefits 
given up. But I dont think it was likely to have exceeded that. So taking on all of the 
investment risk, with little prospect of benefits of a higher capital value doesnt by itself seem 
suitable. In this case though I think that Ms D had a genuine and persuasive need for TFC 
earlier than her OPS retirement age. And it seemed more likely than not that she wouldnt 
want to replicate the benefits in the way her OPS presented them as she was unlikely to 
want to include a similar spouse benefit given the choice. So it was reasonable for Tavistock 
to consider the alternative of replacing her OPS income without the provision of spouse 
death benefits. Its cash flow analysis made this look achievable and sustainable by 
drawdown. I think these objectives were reasonable and it wasnt unsuitable for Tavistock to 
conclude that this transfer was in Ms Ds best interests. 
My final decision
For the above reasons I am not upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman