DRN-4039277
The complaint
Mr S complained that Pi Financial Limited (trading as Money Foundations) advised him 
to switch his Aviva Personal Pension (PP) into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
This advice facilitated investment into a high-risk product - the Optima Worldwide Group 
(OWG) bond which failed, causing him to lose the money he invested in it. He would like to 
be compensated for his losses.
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Legal Partnership (LP) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd, trading as Money Foundations (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  stockbroker
Horizon Stockbroking (Horizon)  discretionary investment manager
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Mr S was introduced to Pi by the Legal Partnership (LP) to advise him on moving his Aviva 
pension fund to a SIPP. LP was an unregulated introducer to Mr Ss adviser, whose firm was 
an appointed representative of Pi. LP also promoted unregulated investments. 
Mr S signed a letter dated 9 January 2014 asking Pi to arrange a new SIPP into which he 
could transfer his Aviva Personal Pension. The letter also said that I wish to choose my own 
investment choice which may involve direct investment in Shares. 
On 21 January 2014 various forms were completed including a client agreement, fact find, 
knowledge and experience assessment, SIPP application and pension transfer 
questionnaire. 
According to the client agreement, Pi would offer advice having assessed your needs and 
considered your financial objectives and attitude to any risks that may be involved. 
The Fact Find showed that Mr S held no other investments or pensions and that he needed 
a retirement income of £12,000 a year at his intended retirement age of 65 (of which £4,000 
a year was to come from the Aviva scheme). (The Fact Find also recorded a target of 
£10,000 a year plus a lump sum of £20,000.) The knowledge and experience assessment 
showed that the Aviva PP was his only experience of investing to date. 
The new SIPP application form had an investment section where the only choice selected 
was the Specialist Investments Module.
On 22 January a suitability report was provided recording the advice. This noted Mr Ss 
desire to invest in specific investment areas and recommended the JH SIPP to meet his 
objectives. The report also said that no advice was being provided on any investments to be 
held by the SIPP.
Mr Ss adviser completed a file note on 24 January indicating that He specifically asked me 
not to comment on the suitability of the product nor compare it to his existing scheme and 
only recommend a SIPP provider. To that end I was not provided with any ceding scheme 
documentation. 
He is receiving investment advice from The Legal Partnership and asked me for no 
investment advice concerning the funds to be held within the SIPP.
£20,000 of the £26,000 transferred was subsequently invested in the OWG bond, via an 
execution-only account with Strand Capital. The bond was an unregulated investment that 
aimed to pay annual interest of 8%. 
On 29 January 2018 JH wrote to Mr S stating that there had been issues with OWG. 
In July 2018 Mr S gave Pi authority to instigate a review of the advice and to pursue a case 
with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) against Strand Capital, which 
had since entered special administration. By the time of Mr Ss SIPP statement in April 2019 
the OWG bond was valued at £0. 
On 17 May 2021 the FSCS told Mr S that they could not consider a case against Strand until 
other avenues had been exhausted, including a case against Pi in relation to their advice.  
Pi rejected Mr Ss complaint on the basis that they had not given any advice on the 
investments, only on the SIPP holding them. They did not accept that they had any 
regulatory responsibility to assess the intended investment in detail, and felt this 
responsibility lay with Strand Capital. Pi also referred to the FCA Handbook and case law to 
support their position.
Once Mr S had received the final response from Pi, FSCS told him that it was for this service 
to determine whether it was appropriate for Pi to restrict its advice to just the SIPP wrapper.
Our investigator provided his opinion that Pi was responsible for the losses Mr S 
experienced because they should have taken into account the underlying investments when 
recommending the SIPP.
Pi did not accept this position. Further, Pi now also said that they thought the case was time-
barred under our rules and could not be considered. Our investigator disagreed.
The case was referred to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 7 March 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the complaint itself, first I need to decide whether in fact this is a complaint 
this service can consider. The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider complaints are provided in the FCA Handbook at DISP 2.8.2R which says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(1) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(2) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
In relation to the first test, Pi sent Mr S their final response on 16 July 2021. Mr S then 
brought the dispute to this service on 29 July, which was well within six months.The advice about which Mr S has complained was dated 22 January 2014 which is more 
than six years before the date of the complaint. However, Mr S would not have been aware 
at the time of advice that he had cause for complaint. He would only have become aware of 
this much later. 
The key events in this respect are: JH wrote to Mr S on 29 January 2018 to let him know 
there were problems with the OWG investment and Strand Capital. On 4 July 2018, Mr S 
gave Pi authority to review the SIPP and underlying investment (Strand/OWG, 
recommended by Horizon). Pi investigated and concluded on 26 August 2018 that OWG 
was not a suitable investment for retail clients. Pi offered to help Mr S with his FSCS claim 
since Horizon had been declared insolvent on 5 July 2018 and claims against it had been 
accepted by FSCS. Mr S received his response from FSCS on 17 May 2021, which told him 
that FSCS could not consider a claim against Strand Capital until all other avenues had been 
exhausted. This would have to include a claim against Pi for the SIPP advice. 
So I have to decide when Mr S became aware, or ought to have become aware, that he had 
cause for complaint against Pi. While he would have been aware of problems with his 
underlying investments that could lead to losses from 29 January 2018, in the months that 
followed Pi reviewed the suitability of the underlying investment, concluding that it was 
unsuitable, although they concluded that the SIPP itself was suitable. 
I think that Mr S would have believed Pi that the issue was with the underlying investment 
and that Horizon or Strand were responsible. Pi, his regulated adviser, had told him in 
August 2018 that there was no cause for concern about the SIPP, and he believed that this 
was the extent of their responsibility. It was not until 17 May 2021, when he received his 
response from FSCS, that Mr S could have become aware that Pi was potentially 
responsible. 
That he allowed Pi to help him in his claim against Horizon with FSCS shows that Mr S was 
reliant on Pi.
So in fact the relevant date for the three year clock under DISP 2.8.2R was not 29 January 
2018 but 17 May 2021. Mr S brought his complaint to Pi on 19 May 2021, just two days later, 
and then to this service on 29 July having received his final response from Pi on 16 July. 
So I find that this complaint was brought to this service within the relevant time limit and is 
therefore one that I can consider.
Merits of the complaint
Pi have submitted detailed submissions which I have considered in full. However, Ill focus in 
this decision on what I consider to be the key material issues in deciding a fair outcome for 
this complaint.
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr S instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Mr S with a limited advice service on this specific instruction. Given the limited nature 
of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was 
suitable.
Pi didnt provide Mr S with advice on the investment in OWG. Mr S either selected his 
own investment or was advised on this by LP. 
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Strand and Horizon 
who were also regulated firms. They are responsible for Mr Ss losses and not Pi who only played a very limited role here.
Relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of
particular relevance to this complaint is:
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint is 
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to a
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1R:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
(2) When making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the necessary information 
regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable
for him.
COBS 9.2.2R:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant,information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including the law relating to causation,
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr S investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable?
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr S would have relied on the advice or whether he would still have moved his 
pension and invested in OWG regardless of Pis advice; and
If Mr S did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in the 
specific circumstances of this case.
Advising on Investments 
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr S 
with regulated investment advice.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular
SIPP provider to Mr S. This is also clearly evidenced in the suitability report which says that 
Mr S wished me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which you can transfer your 
current Aviva Life Personal Pension policy and that I have recommended a [JH] SIPP.
Mr Ss adviser also said in his letter of 20 January 2014 that he would be responsible for 
selecting an appropriate SIPP provider and setting up the transfer of funds. Indeed a large 
part of Pis position is that they did in fact recommend the SIPP. 
So I am satisfied Pi was giving regulated investment advice to Mr S and was therefore 
bound by the requirements of COBS 9 as quoted above.
Was Pi entitled to rely on their limited retainer?
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ss instructions.
Mr S asked for advice on a SIPP but said he would make his own investment choices. Pi 
says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Aviva to the JH SIPP or on where the 
transferred fund would be invested. 
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP wrapper only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for
purpose (Section 1B FSMA).
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their
recommendation would meet Mr Ss objectives and that he was able to bear any related
investment risks. Mr Ss recorded objective was to transfer his Aviva pension to the SIPP so 
he could choose his own investments which may include direct investment in shares. The adviser said in his file note dated 24 January 2014 that Mr S was being advised on the 
investments by LP. Pi said in their review of 26 August 2018 that the adviser knew he would 
be using Horizon, a specialist investment firm. Pi also said in their final response to Mr S 
that his adviser did review the suitability of the OWG Bond.
I consider the risks of switching the Aviva personal pension and the risks of the intended
investment through the SIPP were a direct consequence of the establishment of the
SIPP itself. Had Mr S left his money with Aviva he would not have been able to invest in 
OWG. Following COBS 9.2.2R, Pi couldnt ignore the context of why Mr S wanted a 
recommendation for a SIPP or what his intentions were once the SIPP had been 
established. 
In order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific SIPP product, Pi needed to have 
regard to Mr S wider circumstances including how the funds were currently invested (Aviva 
Managed fund) and what the intended investment strategy would be (Strand/Horizon and 
therefore potentially OWG or similar investments). Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in 
isolation without considering the whole transaction is not reasonably possible.
Indeed the FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated 
financial advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focused on unregulated 
investments which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks 
for customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension...
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 a further update was issued 
in which the regulator reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then theoverall advice is not suitable.
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP)
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper.
Pi has said the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the 
adviser was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi 
says Strand would have given advice on the investments. But Mr Ss Strand account was on 
an execution-only basis so there is no evidence that they were intending to provide 
investment advice.
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were
intending to do was suitable and in their best interests. I want to be clear that I think Pis
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The
requirements of COBS 9.2.2R dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Ss 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from Aviva to 
the SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider, and the underlying
investment strategy.
I would also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude 
or restrict, or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the 
client under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligations under COBS 9 by 
taking instructions to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. COBS 9 also required Pi to 
consider the wider suitability of Mr S intended transactions when recommending a SIPP, 
regardless of any limitations Mr S might have wanted to introduce. 
Pi and Mr S had an advisory relationship where Pi were the experts and they had a duty
to meet their regulatory obligations. The Client Agreement signed by Mr S said that Pi would 
offer advice having assessed his needs and considered his financial objectives and attitude 
to any risks that were involved. 
Pi failed to do this so I find that they did not act fairly or reasonably when providing their 
advice to Mr S.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said
considered the scope of duty of advisers. 
I have considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either. This case 
concerns the extent of an advisers responsibility to review historical advice given by another 
firm.
For the reasons I have already explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the 
suitability of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under 
COBS 9 and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.In summary, I consider that, when advising Mr S on the suitability of the JH SIPP,
Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension
switch and where Mr S intended to invest after the transfer.
Did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr S with a suitable 
recommendation, so I have carefully considered whether they met this requirement.
A knowledge and experience assessment was completed in January 2014 along with the 
other paperwork. This indicated that Mr Ss only investment experience had been with a 
personal pension, where he had experienced fluctuations in value. He had no experience of 
non-mainstream investments, or of making his own investment decisions. So Pi should have 
queried why Mr S wanted to invest in something that was much higher risk, with the potential 
for large losses. I think it was clear that he did not have the knowledge and experience to be 
able to understand the risks of the non-mainstream or specialist investment he was 
considering following the switch to the SIPP. Therefore Pi did not meet the requirements of 
COBS 9.2.2R.
Mr Ss adviser said in the report that he did not carry out an attitude to risk assessment, but 
there are a number of important questions in the Pension Transfer Analysis questionnaire 
that I think tell us something about Mr Ss feelings about risk. 
By selecting options from a range, Mr S indicated that he was prepared to accept reasonable 
levels of volatility for higher long term results; he would be concerned with losses between 
10% and 15% in a year; he was prepared to take a lot more risk with some of his pension 
fund; and his second highest priority, after increasing his pension, was The security of my 
pension fund; finally, when indicating that accessing a wider range of investment funds was 
very important to him, he failed to not indicate a specific type of fund he wanted to invest in. 
Taking this all into consideration, I can see no evidence that Mr S was prepared to accept 
the risks of the specialist investments offered by Horizon. The potential losses were much 
higher than 10-15% in a given year, and indeed could be up to 100% which was not in line 
with his desire to ensure the security of his pension fund. Pi itself concluded (in August 
2018) that OWG was not suitable for Mr S as it did not match his risk profile. So I find that Mr 
S was not willing to take the risks involved in the transaction. 
In relation to Mr S ability to bear the risks of the advice (his capacity for loss) the fact find 
shows that Mr S wanted a retirement income of £12,000 a year (or £10,000 a year and a 
lump sum of £20,000). £4,000 a year of this was to come from the Aviva pension. Although 
the file did not record where the rest of the income would come from, (possibly his State 
Pension) it is very clear that he could not afford to lose the money in the Aviva pension. 
Based on the evidence I have seen I do not think that Mr S could afford the risks involved. 
One final point is that Pi also knew that Mr S would be funding the SIPP by transferring the 
money from the Aviva pension. Although the suitability report states that the adviser had 
recommended that the Aviva contract was replaced, there is no evidence of any analysis to 
show why it was not suitable.
Since the Pi adviser helped to complete the application form which had only the specialist 
investment module selected; and given the introduction came from LP; and given that he 
knew that LP was advising Mr S on the investments, I think that it is likely that Pi knew about 
the characteristics of those likely investments before making the SIPP recommendation, so 
the advice would have been unsuitable for the reasons given. However, if Pis position is that they did not know about the investments at the time of 
advice, then I think they should have done more to find out. Otherwise Pi would not have 
been able to determine whether the transaction as a whole was suitable for Mr S, so they 
would not have taken reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable.. If Pi didnt know 
anything about the underlying investments they should not have offered advice. 
So in summary, I think that Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr S given what 
they knew about Mr S and his intentions. They should have explained that the intended 
investment was too high risk and that given this was all of his private retirement savings at 
the time, he couldnt financially bear the risks with this money. 
So I find that Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the 
SIPP which facilitated an investment which was clearly not suitable for him . They didnt pay 
due regard to Mr Ss interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their 
personal recommendation was suitable for Mr S as per their regulatory obligations. 
Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr S were fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Would Mr S have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Mr S would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what
Pi advised him to do. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if 
Mr S saw this brochure - which is something I dont know - he might have known that it was 
unregulated and high risk. I also considered that Mr Ss adviser said that he was getting 
advice from LP which could have persuaded him to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a regulated professional firm
advising him not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk, or 
anything he might have been told by an unregulated business. 
The consequences of the loss were hugely significant to Mr S overall financial position. He 
lost all of his private retirement provision (except for the money he withdrew) which 
represented 1/3 of his retirement income target. He didnt have the capacity to bear 
significant losses to his pension, which was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG 
bond. So I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had 
clearly explained they couldnt recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not 
suitable for him, the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his 
pension in this way, then he would not have proceeded.
Given that Pi was or should have been aware that Mr S was being influenced by LP, who did 
not have the same regulatory responsibilities that Pi did, they should have established what 
he had been told and corrected any potential misconceptions.
Im not persuaded the evidence suggests that he was so keen to invest via LP 
that he would have gone ahead if the regulated, professional advice had been not to do so. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Mr S was more likely than not to have followed Pis 
advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended against the SIPP and 
investment with OWG as it was unsuitable. I think, on balance, Mr S would have remained in 
the Aviva pension and stayed invested in the Managed fund. 
Reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely onStrand/Horizon providing a suitable recommendation for Mr S.
But I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm (F1) 
receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity on 
behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and Strand/Horizon were F2. 
However, Pi didnt receive any instructions here from these firms so I dont see how this 
changes anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to my provisional decision with any new evidence or 
arguments, I see no reason to change the findings from my provisional decision. I therefore 
uphold Mr Ss complaint against Pi.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I have taken the view that Mr S would have remained with his previous provider. I am 
satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable in this situation. 
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Pi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pi should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. Pi should assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age. Since Mr S 
has already taken his full tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 100% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr S £500 for the significant worry and distress experienced as a result of 
losing such a significant part of his retirement savings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest it 
should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate 
in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists but 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
transferDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Pi should 
take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Pi pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Pi is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Pi may require that Mr S provides an undertaking to 
pay Pi any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr S's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Pi should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set out 
above how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the illiquid assets, or this is something 
that Mr S can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Pi is unable 
to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it pays Mr 
S an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the 
fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to 
arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Pi Financial Ltd. I require Pi 
Financial Ltd to pay compensation to Mr S in line with the approach set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman