DRN-2650583
The complaint
Mr U complains that Scottish Widows Limited delayed sending him a forfeiture payment for 
his endowment policy.
What happened
In 1996, Mr U took out a savings endowment policy with Scottish Widows. The policy had a 
term of 20 years and was due to mature in April 2016. Scottish Widows says it produced 
letters letting Mr U know that the policy was forfeited in 2001 because Mr U hadnt kept up to 
date with his premiums. But the letters werent sent to Mr U because previous 
correspondence had been returned as gone away.
In early 2019, Mr U sent a letter to Scottish Widows enclosing an address confirmation form. 
Mr U said that his address had remained the same for more than twenty years. No mail 
should have been returned marked return to sender or gone away. Mr U also provided 
the names of other family members who lived with him. He said the family believed Scottish 
Widows held monies due to them and they looked forward to receiving it.
In December 2019, Mr U complained that Scottish Widows had failed to forward monies 
owed to him. Scottish Widows said it would send Mr U a cheque for the forfeiture value of 
the policy of £842. Scottish Widows acknowledged that it should have sent this earlier 
because Mr U had submitted documentation for proof of signature in February 2019. It said it 
would pay him 8% per annum simple interest for the period from February 2019 to January 
2020 to compensate him for the delay. It didnt agree that it had withheld funds for the years 
prior to February 2019. It said it had attempted to contact Mr U at the point it made the policy 
forfeiture in October 2001 and again in 2016 but hadnt received a response.
Mr U asked Scottish Widows to review its decision. He said he hadnt received the forfeiture 
payment for the policy. He referred to previous correspondence where Scottish Widows had 
told him that letters theyd sent had been returned. He said hed been at the same address 
for over 25 years. Mr U also raised concerns that Scottish Widows hadnt paid him money 
owed to him from its demutualisation in 2000. 
Scottish Widows said it could see there was an issue with processing the forfeiture payment 
in January 2020 and a cheque for the forfeiture amount would be sent in the next few days. 
It said it would also cover the lost interest from January 2020 to March 2020 (at 8% simple 
per annum). Scottish Widows said it had sent Mr U a cheque for the demutualisation 
payment in August 2000.
Mr U remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Scottish Widows said 
the demutualisation cheque had been sent to Mr Us current address, but this address 
wasnt held for the forfeiture letters. It thought it had made an error by not ensuring both 
address records had been updated. It offered to pay Mr U 8% per annum simple interest on 
the forfeiture value from the date the policy was forfeited in 2001 to the date of settlement. It 
also offered to pay Mr U an additional £250 for trouble and upset.
Our investigator let Mr U know about Scottish Widows offer and he accepted it in resolution 
of his complaint about the forfeiture value. He asked if Scottish Widows could provide 
evidence that the demutualisation cheque was cashed.
Scottish Widows said it couldnt confirm the demutualisation cheque had been cashed due to 
the length of time that had passed. Its computer records showed that it had received a 
completed post settlement form from Mr U before issuing the cheque.
Scottish Widows decided to withdraw its offer to pay Mr U 8% per annum simple interest 
from 2001. It said its rationale for the offer was one team not advising another team of a 
change of address. But having looked into it further, it could see that the demutualisation 
cheque had been sent to the same address it had sent Mr Us policy documentation to. It 
couldnt see any evidence that it was aware of Mr Us correct address at the time the policy 
was forfeited. It was happy to stand by its offer to pay Mr U £250. 
Our investigator gave her view that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr U was 
likely to have received and cashed the demutualisation cheque. But she thought Scottish 
Widows was likely to be responsible for Mr Us address being incorrect on its system. She 
recommended it pay Mr U 8% per annum simple interest from the forfeiture date to the date 
payment was made because Mr U wasnt made aware of forfeiture funds. This was in 
addition to the £250 Scottish Widows had offered Mr U for trouble and upset.
Mr U accepted our investigators view, but Scottish Widows disagreed. It said it wasnt able 
to confirm where the incorrect address came from and didnt dispute that Mr U had never 
lived there. But Scottish Widows thought Mr U should have queried either not receiving his 
policy documents or receiving incorrectly addressed post. So, Mr Us complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Its not disputed that the address Scottish Widows held for Mr U is incorrect. Its similar to  
Mr Us actual address, but it doesnt exist. Both the street name and the post code are 
slightly wrong. Its not surprising that Scottish Widows isnt able to provide the paperwork 
from Mr Us policy application in 1996, given the length of time thats passed. But on 
balance, I think the error is more likely to have been caused by a Scottish Widows member 
of staff inputting information incorrectly, rather than Mr U supplying the wrong information 
about his own address.
Its possible that Mr U received some of the post from Scottish Widows despite it being 
incorrectly addressed. The post code belongs to a street a short distance away from where 
Mr U lives, but the name of that street is completely different. I think its plausible that a 
postal worker might have realised post needed to go to Mr Us address, given the street 
name on the correspondence was only slightly different. 
Scottish Widows says it received the demutualisation form back from Mr U, despite it being 
sent to an incorrect address. And Mr U has accepted our investigators view that he likely 
received the demutualisation cheque and cashed it, even though he doesnt remember doing 
so. While Mr U might have received some of the earlier post from Scottish Widows, he didnt 
receive any letters relating to the forfeiture because they werent sent, owing to the gone 
away marker on Scottish Widows system. This resulted in Mr U not being aware of the 
forfeiture amount owed to him until many years later.
Scottish Widows hasnt accepted responsibility for this. It says Mr U should have made it 
aware that that the address it held was incorrect. But I think its possible Mr U might not have 
noticed the errors in his address on correspondence he received. And Ive already explained 
why I think Scottish Widows is likely to be responsible for the address being wrong on its 
system in the first place. So, I think it would be fair for Scottish Widows to pay compensatory 
interest to Mr U because of the delay in him receiving the forfeiture payment. I also think it 
would be reasonable for Scottish Widows to pay Mr U the £250 its offered for the trouble 
and upset hes experienced.
Putting things right
Scottish Widows should:
Pay Mr U 8% per annum simple interest on the forfeiture amount from the date of 
forfeiture until the date it made the forfeiture payment to him* (minus the interest its 
already paid).
Pay Mr U £250 for trouble and upset.
* If Scottish Widows considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the interest it 
should let Mr U know how much its taken off. It should also give Mr U a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customers if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman