DRN-1744919
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly declined his claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr R alleged to NFU that he had been involved in a collision with a high kerb. 
He reported damage to the near and offside door mouldings, front bumper panel, the bonnet, 
parking sensor and suspension through the ride height warning light.
NFU had a number of concerns following the initial garage inspection and further 
investigation, which it explained to Mr R, including; 
The bonnet and parking sensor issues were unrelated to the April 2018 incident.
This conclusion was based on their position in regard to where the impact occurred.
The onboard computer recorded an issue with the ride height over 1000 miles prior to 
the April 2018 incident.
The misalignment to the near-side bumper was likely to have been visible prior to the 
incident because of how it was aligned to the near-side front wing.
NFU rejected the claim in April 2019 on the basis that Mr R was claiming for damage that 
was sustained pre-accident, and that this was fraudulent. It cited the relevant part of the 
policy that allowed it to reject the claim. NFU also cancelled Mr Rs policy from the date of 
the claim. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt think NFU had acted unfairly. She referred 
to NFUs investigation which also included the report from the approved repairer, interviews 
with Mr R and that repairer, and also a further engineers inspection report. She also 
subsequently concluded that it was reasonable for NFU to attempt to recover external costs 
relating to their investigation. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said the fault light had not been on the 
dashboard prior to the accident. He didnt feel the engineers who had issued the report were 
impartial and he maintains his claim is genuine.
So, its now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are set up by law to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal formality. Among other 
things this means were not bound by strict rules of evidence that a court is and so we can 
take evidence, for example, in more informal ways. 
Where an insurer cites the policy fraud condition as a reason to reject a claim, I think it 
should base that decision on robust evidence. I say this because it is a serious accusation to 
make and can have consequences that reach beyond the mere claim decision itself. That 
said, Im not making a determination on whether the claim was actually fraudulent or not but 
whether NFU has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances, which include NFUs 
reliance on the fraud condition. 
For the avoidance of doubt there is no dispute that the policy allows NFU to reject a claim in 
circumstances where Mr R makes a fraudulent and/or intentionally exaggerated claim. Thats 
made clear in the policy under a section headed Fraud and Misrepresentation. It also says 
here that in such a circumstance, NFU have the right to cancel the policy without a refund of 
premiums and recover any amounts paid in respect to the claim. 
The crux of this case concerns whether NFU acted fairly in refusing to pay Mr Rs claim 
concerning an incident he alleged occurred on 15 April 2018. Im mindful of relevant case 
law about fraudulent insurance claims, and relevant industry rules (ICOBS 8.1.1 R (3)) say 
that NFU must not unreasonably reject a claim. 
The original report from April 2018 by the engineer at the approved repairer, stated that the 
parking sensor was not in the location of the impact of this incident. They also said that the 
mis-alignment with the bumper must have also been visible prior to this incident. They also 
identified through the onboard computer, that the issue with the ride height suspension had 
been recorded prior to this incident. 
NFU instructed an investigation which included interviews and a further forensic engineers 
report. This did state that some of the damage being claimed for was consistent with a 
recent collision with a high kerb. This included damage to the door and front bumper. 
However, it also concluded that the parking sensor damage and bonnet mis-alignment was 
not consistent with the circumstances of this incident. Their report also said that the warning 
light for the suspension issue would have been illuminated prior to this incident, as it was 
related to an issue that was logged 1128 miles prior. 
Mr R says that he hadnt noticed the damage prior to this incident, so presumed it was 
related. He maintains that the bonnet and parking sensor damage was from this incident. He 
also says that the suspension warning light on the dashboard had not previously been 
illuminated. But says that it had been fixed previously. 
As part of any claim an insurer is entitled to investigate the circumstances of a claim as 
presented by a claimant. Thats what NFU did and Im satisfied that was fair. And where an 
insurer has concerns over aspects of a claim its entitled to look into such issues in more 
detail. 
Id expect a balanced and reasonable investigation and Im satisfied thats what has 
happened here. And it follows that where an expert is giving their opinion on particular 
issues, and whether it occurred as presented by the claimant, I think its reasonable for NFU 
to rely on that evidence. 
Im persuaded by the evidence that NFU has acted fairly in rejecting Mr Rs claim. NFU 
made a reasonable investigation into the claim. Its entitled to rely on the opinion of an expert 
and in total three engineers have looked at this. And their opinion of the damage, when 
considered with the inconsistencies outlined above, supports NFUs view that Mr R probably 
made a claim which was fraudulent and/or intentionally exaggerated. So, its decision to rely on the fraud term to reject the claim, recover its cost and cancel his policy is fair and 
reasonable. And overall, I think its treated Mr R fairly and reasonably.
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr R. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
require NFU to do anything further as part of this complaint. My decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve Mr Rs dispute with NFU  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman