DRN-2895055
The complaint
Mr T said hed held an account with Santander UK Plc for over fifteen years. But then it 
suddenly decided it wanted him to show it some ID, and when he didnt get the letters about 
this, it closed his account.
What happened
Santander said it had been trying for some time to contact Mr T, to request additional 
documents from him. It explained that this was so it could meet UK regulatory and legal 
requirements. It had written to him in November and December 2020, then January, 
February and March 2021. In mid-February 2021, Santander restricted Mr Ts account, so he 
could no longer use it, but he still didnt get in touch. At the end of March 2021, Santander 
closed Mr Ts account and returned the money by cheque. Santander didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
Mr T said that he hadnt opened the letters Santander had sent him. He thought Santander 
shouldve called him. He said it was very disappointing for Santander to behave like this, 
after hed been banking with it for so long. And he said direct debits were due to start coming 
out of his account, which had now been closed, but he hadnt received the money back yet.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Santander  like 
all banks  had to carry out identification checks on all customers. This is part of regulations 
imposed upon them by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who is the regulator for 
banks. It wasnt something Santander had chosen to apply to Mr T alone. 
Our investigator said Santander had written to Mr T and had sent him secure messages too. 
He said Santander didnt currently call people who havent replied to letters like this, but it 
was thinking of doing so in future. But he thought it had made efforts to get in touch. And our 
investigator also said that Mr Ts account was restricted from February 2021, so from then 
on, he couldnt have withdrawn money or make regular or one-off payments  including card 
payments, standing orders or direct debits. Our investigator noted this hadnt prompted Mr T 
to get in touch. He didnt think Santander had been unfair.
Mr T didnt agree. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
Santander wrote to the address it held for Mr T a number of times, to ask him for some 
additional information. As our investigator explained, this is an external requirement placed 
on Santander by its regulators. I know that Mr T had a long relationship with Santander, prior 
to this, and I understand that means hes shown it ID on a number of occasions over the 
years. But that doesnt mean that hes exempt from supplying additional information, if 
Santander asks for it.
Unfortunately, Mr T didnt open his post during this time. And he also wasnt aware that his 
account was restricted. So he didnt get in touch with Santander. 
I know that Mr T wouldve preferred Santander to call him, but I dont think it had to do that 
as well.
When Santander asks for more information, like this, then receives no response, it says it 
doesnt have any choice, it has to close the account. I think that if Santander isnt able to 
comply with the requirements on it for identifying its customers, then what it has done here 
isnt unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr T said that Santander had sent him a cheque with his money, but he hadnt yet received 
it, and he was going to need that money to start paying bills. But Santander has told us that 
Mr Ts account had actually been restricted for around six weeks by then, and hed not had 
access to this money during all that time. And it looked to Santander as if he just hadnt 
noticed that. So I dont think that Santander shouldve realised that Mr T was going to need 
urgent access to this money. I dont think it made a mistake by sending him a cheque.
I know that Mr T has been very upset by what has happened here, so Im sorry to have to tell 
him that I dont think that Santander has done anything wrong. And, although I understand 
that Mr T will be disappointed by this, that means his complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman