DRN-2301231
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited (CSHS) handled a 
claim she made on her personal private medical insurance policy.
Ms Ms represented by Mr M.
What happened
Ms M has a personal private medical insurance policy. Shed been suffering from symptoms 
of headaches, dizziness and vertigo. She underwent tests to look into the cause of her 
symptoms. In April 2020, she was diagnosed with severe aortic stenosis and was admitted 
to hospital for cardiac surgery on 24 April 2020. Mr M let CSHS know about Ms Ms 
admission and that shed need surgery. Mr M discussed the possibility of Ms M being 
transferred within the hospital for surgery to be carried out privately, but due to restrictions 
resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic; this wasnt possible. Ms M underwent cardiac surgery 
under the NHS on 30 April 2020 and was discharged on 5 May 2020.
Initially, CSHS agreed to pay Ms M NHS cash benefit under the policy  which represented 
£150 per night benefit for her inpatient stay. CSHS didnt include the first night of Ms Ms 
stay in its calculation thought because Ms M had initially been admitted into a coronary care 
unit, rather than a general ward. Ultimately, after Mr M complained about the way CSHS had 
handled Ms Ms claim, it agreed to make a payment under the Your Care Package (YCP) 
section of the policy. This provides cover for a benefit payment of up to 20% of the costs of 
complex surgery private surgery which is carried out by the NHS. It paid Ms M around £5600 
under this section of the contract. And it also paid Ms M £100 compensation to recognise the 
distress it had caused her when it emailed her, while she was in hospital, to ask for authority 
to contact Mr M, despite her already giving verbal authority to do so.
Ms M was unhappy with the way CSHS had handled her claim and with the outcome of her 
complaint. So Mr M asked us to look into her complaint. In particular, he referred to the fact 
that CSHS hadnt fully explored options into transferring Ms M to private care; CSHS hadnt 
mentioned YCP  Mr M had had to request this before it was considered; CSHS hadnt 
mentioned or paid for either a private ambulance or convalescent nursing, which he felt Ms 
M shouldve been covered for; CSHS hadnt paid NHS cash benefit for the first night of Ms 
Ms admission and he felt CSHS should pay a total award of £750  which represented £600 
compensation and one nights NHS cash benefit.
Our investigator thought CSHS had treated Ms M fairly. While she acknowledged it couldve 
done more to highlight other private hospital options, she thought Mr M had indicated to it 
that hed be happy for Ms M to undergo treatment under the NHS in the hospital she was in. 
She considered information Ms Ms treating surgeon had sent to CSHS about Ms Ms initial 
admission and she was satisfied that it was fair for CSHS to conclude that Ms M had 
required specialist care. So she felt CSHS had settled the cash benefit claim fairly. 
The investigator agreed that CSHS shouldve done more to explain the YCP benefit. But she 
felt that given the payment was prioritised and paid promptly, Ms M hadnt lost out as a 
result. Having considered the convalescent nursing and private ambulance sections of the 
policy; she felt it was clear that these costs would only be covered if it was specifically 
directed by a specialist or consultant. There was no medical evidence to suggest Ms Ms 
treating doctors had considered either convalescent nursing or a private ambulance were 
medically necessary. And she felt that the compensation CSHS had paid Ms M was enough 
to recognise the trouble and upset it had caused her. So she didnt think it needed to do 
anything more.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. Ive summarised his detailed responses:
He and Ms M felt they werent being listened to on a few key points;
They felt that the policy cover wasnt clearly set out in the policy documents and they 
didnt feel it was for them to try to navigate the wording;
Hed suggested £750 to resolve the complaint and they felt it was a huge reduction 
on the policy entitlement to £2000 convalescent cover. They reiterated that this had 
never been offered and that Ms M had had to move in with her parents to recover. 
This had impacted them, as her parents also had medical issues and theyd had to 
isolate due to the risk of Covid-19;
While Mr M had mentioned to CSHS that Ms Ms surgeon had suggested private care 
either in the hospital she was originally in or a transfer to London; this had been 
speculation on the surgeons part, as hed expected CSHS to explore more options. 
Theyd been under great stress and CSHS had offered no support to try and find 
alternative hospitals. Theyd felt under pressure from CSHS to remain on the NHS;
They didnt agree that Ms M had been treated as an emergency on the first evening  
shed been put into the CCU because no other beds were available;
Ms M was still unwell and had suffered due to CSHS mishandling of her complaint.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think CSHS has treated Ms M fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Ms M that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and their detailed submissions; Ive carefully read and considered everything 
theyve said and sent us. In making my decision though, I wont comment on each and every 
point Mr and Ms M have raised. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be the key issues.
Its also important that I explain our role. Were not the industry regulator and we have no 
power to ask the financial businesses we cover to change their processes or procedures. 
We also have no power to fine or punish the businesses we cover. Our role is to look into the 
individual circumstances of a complaint to decide whether a financial business has done 
anything wrong. And, if we think it has, whether it needs to take any action to put things right.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. 
CSHS has already acknowledged that it didnt handle Ms Ms claim as well as it couldve 
done and its offered compensation to recognise the impact this caused her. So Ive 
considered whether CSHS has a) settled Ms Ms claim fairly and b) put its mistakes right in a 
fair way. Ill address the main points in turn.
Should CSHS have done more to look into private surgery for Ms M?
Like our investigator, Ive listened to calls between Mr M and CSHS and Ive seen email 
correspondence between the parties. Mr M spoke to CSHS on a Friday afternoon to look into the possibility of transferring Ms M to private care. He mentioned that Ms Ms surgeon had 
suggested either private treatment in the hospital she was already in or moving her to 
another hospital. CSHS advisor explained that the other hospital wouldnt be covered and 
that a form would need to be completed and approved before private treatment in the 
original hospital could be guaranteed. Mr M stated that he didnt want Ms M to be transferred 
to London and that hed be happy for her to undergo surgery on the NHS at her current 
hospital. 
I agree that CSHS advisor could have further explored the possibility of alternative hospitals 
with Mr M. But Ive also borne in mind that many private facilities were being used to treat 
Covid-19 patients at that time. And that Mr M did suggest hed be happy for Ms M to remain 
in the NHS hospital, because he didnt want her to be transferred to London. Ive also noted 
that the treating hospital was unable to carry out the surgery privately due to Covid-19. So 
Mr M told CSHS: Giventhe urgency, we decided to proceed at (the hospital) as an NHS 
patient. So it seems to me that even if the advisor had looked into other private facilities, its 
at least equally likely that theyd have been requisitioned by the NHS or that Ms M may have 
preferred not to move hospitals. This means I cant say its more likely than not that Ms M 
lost out as a result of CSHS not further exploring alternative options.
Id also add that having listened to the call, I dont think CSHS put Mr M under pressure to 
keep Ms M in the NHS. The advisor explained that given the weekend was coming up, no 
transfer claim could be looked at until the next week. She explained that if Ms M was moved 
during that time, there was a risk that she might be liable for any private costs. I think the 
advisor was simply giving Mr M enough information about the potential implications if Ms M 
was moved before any transfer was approved so that Ms M could make an informed choice. 
Has Ms Ms claim under the YCP been settled fairly?
Ive considered the terms of Ms Ms policy with CSHS, as this forms the basis of her contract 
with CSHS. The YCP section states:
The Your Care Package is available to members who opt to have complex surgery 
(classified by the Society as major plus or complex major surgery) or oncology treatment 
(chemotherapy and radiotherapy) free of charge on the NHS in lieu of private treatment.
If you choose to have the above treatment free of charge on the NHS, CSHS may be able to 
offer you a single payment equivalent to 20% of the cost of private treatment at a hospital 
available on your selected list.
Benefits under the Your Care Package must be agreed in writing with the Society in advance 
of treatment taking place. As soon as your condition has been diagnosed by your 
Specialist/Consultant and a treatment pathway has been agreed, please contact our 
Managed Care Teamto discuss how the Your Care Package works and whether it is 
available to you.
This cover is also set out on page 5 of the 2019 policy key facts summary, which wouldve 
been sent to Ms M at her 2019 policy renewal. The key facts later explains that this cover 
has been amended, as the YCP had previously been a discretionary award.
I think both the policy booklet and the key facts summary clearly set out the YCP and how it 
works. So I think CSHS has made this cover clear enough in its policy paperwork.
Its clear that CSHS didnt draw Mr Ms attention to this cover when he was looking into what 
cover Ms M had available. CSHS acknowledges that it shouldve done so and explained that 
the confusion appeared to be down to the change in the cover from the previous terms. It told Ms M that training and feedback would be given on this issue. Its unfortunate that Mr M 
had to push CSHS to agree to paying Ms M benefit under this section of the policy and I 
dont doubt that this caused some frustration. But Im satisfied that CSHS reviewed Ms Ms 
claim under this section as a priority once itd agreed to cover it. And Ive seen how it 
calculated the settlement she was due and Im satisfied it was calculated correctly. Im also 
pleased that CSHS acknowledged further staff training was needed around this section of 
cover and I think its response to this point was appropriate.
Should CSHS include the first night of Ms Ms admission in its NHS cash allowance 
payment?
The policy terms say that CSHS will pay:
For a surgical or medical admission; £150 each day/night after admission to a UK acute 
general NHS hospital for up to 28 days per person per policy year for eligible claims.
This section of the policy also says that policyholders are not covered for emergency 
treatment  which includes admission to a hospital ward directly from the emergency 
department for urgent treatment.
CSHS contacted Ms Ms cardiologist to ask for further information about her initial admission 
and was directed to Ms Ms surgeon. CSHS asked whether Ms M couldve been admitted to 
a general ward, rather than CCU, but for Covid-19. The surgeon said:
Her initial care required CCU level care. After a period of observation, she could have 
received ward level care. She had a prolonged period of admission as she needed careful 
screening for COVID.
CSHS then asked the surgeon for further clarification from the surgeon as to when Ms M 
wouldve been stable enough to move to a general ward if it werent for Covid-19. The 
surgeon stated:
She would have been suitable for the ward. I suspect that she would have been ready the 
day after admission.
In my view, I think it was reasonable for CSHS to conclude from this evidence that Ms M 
wasnt stable enough for admission to a general ward on her first night in hospital and that 
she was receiving emergency treatment at that point. I also think it was appropriate and fair 
for CSHS to contact the surgeon to ask for the relevant information so that it could work out 
what cash allowance was due. 
I appreciate Mr M disagrees with CSHS decision and maintains that it wasnt his 
understanding that Ms M needed to be on CCU during the first night of her admission. But I 
think it was fair and reasonable for CSHS to rely on the medical evidence from Ms Ms 
treating surgeon when it calculated the appropriate cash benefit. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong when it concluded that the first night of Ms Ms stay wasnt eligible for cash 
allowance.Should CSHS have highlighted other policy benefits?
Mr M has referred specifically to both the convalescent nursing benefit and private 
ambulance benefit which he and Ms M consider shouldve applied to her claim. Ive looked 
carefully at both of these. Convalescing and nursing at home benefit provides up to £2800 
per admission following an admission under the specific direction of a specialist or 
consultant. Private ambulance cover provides up to £250 per year if a private road 
ambulance is required out of medical necessity.
Both of these benefits, along with the other main things the policy covers, are clearly set out 
in both the policy document and key facts summary. So Im satisfied CSHS has sufficiently 
explained what cover might be available to policyholders in the event of a claim.
In this case, while CSHS could have mentioned these benefits to Mr M, I do think itd made 
them clear enough on its paperwork. And having looked at the available evidence, theres 
nothing to suggest that the treating medical team thought that Ms M needed a private 
ambulance or directed that she required nursing care after her discharge. So even if I were 
to conclude that CSHS made an error in not pointing out these benefits to Mr M, I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to find that either provision was considered medically 
necessary by Ms Ms medical practitioners. On this basis, I dont think I could fairly find that 
shes lost out as a result of any such error.
Should CSHS pay additional compensation?
As Ive explained, CSHS has offered to pay Ms M £100 compensation to reflect the impact 
on her when it contacted her while she was in hospital. Im satisfied then that CSHS 
recognised how upsetting this mustve been for Ms M and has taken reasonable steps to put 
things right. I appreciate how worrying the situation mustve been for Ms M and why Mr M 
has handled the claim on her behalf. But in my view, while CSHS hasnt handled the claim 
as well as it couldve done, overall, Im satisfied it settled it fairly and in a reasonably timely 
way. So I think £100 is fair compensation to recognise the trouble and upset CSHS handling 
of the claim caused Ms M.
I appreciate Ms M is likely to be disappointed with my decision and I sympathise with her 
position, because I understand shes been through a worrying time. But as Ive explained, I 
think CSHS has done enough to put right its mistakes. So Im not telling it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that CSHS offer is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman