DRN-4116320
The complaint
Mr J complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) sent communications 
to contact details which werent his. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J had a credit card account with AESEL. It had an outstanding balance, and it wasnt 
being paid, so AESEL undertook debt recovery activities. This included using third parties to 
identify contact details for Mr J. The third parties identified two phone numbers. This activity - 
a trace - is common practice and I find it was fair and reasonable for AESEL to undertake it. 
Over the following months AESEL (or its agents) called or text messaged the two phone 
numbers. AESEL accepts it ought to have stopped doing so as soon as it became apparent 
the phone numbers belonged to Mr Js father and not him. However, various oversights 
meant contact continued when it shouldnt have. AESEL let Mr J down here. 
Mr J is also concerned letter(s) were sent to an address which wasnt his. My understanding, 
however, is that the address in dispute was the address Mr J used to apply for the account 
and was the registered address until recently. So while Mr J might not have wanted letters 
sent there, I find it was fair and reasonable for AESEL to attempted to contact him there. 
Mr J considers AESEL breached data protection legislation. Its not within my powers to 
enforce data protection laws or to fine AESEL for its mistakes. But I can make an award for 
the distress and inconvenience AESEL caused Mr J by continuing to contact him using 
phone numbers it knew werent his.  
While there were calls with Mr Js father, no information was disclosed other than AESEL 
was calling for Mr J. And the text messages contained very limited information. But, Mr Js 
balance was disclosed. This was distressing for Mr J. And Mr J had the hassle of needing to 
contact AESEL (and its agents) several times to stop his father being contacted.
Compensation is appropriate here. Mr J asks for his debt with AESEL (about £800) to be 
cancelled. And to be paid £12,000, because of the impact he says this matter had on his 
company. While I sympathise with Mr J, I dont find I can fairly and reasonably require 
AESEL to compensate him in the way he asks. Ill explain why.
Mr J says his family finding out about this debt caused him shame and the withdrawal of 
investment in his company. I have seen no strong evidence to support this. Further, the debt 
wasnt that large, and Mr J has said he wasnt paying it because of an unrelated dispute, 
rather than an inability to do so. Im not satisfied the impact is as has been described. 
In any case, if I were to be satisfied the impact is as Mr J says, Id need to also be satisfied 
AESEL could reasonably have foreseen it. Im not. I say this because attempting to contact a 
personal customer in the way it did wouldnt ordinarily lead to the sorts of consequences 
Mr J has described. Instead, it would lead to some modest distress and inconvenience.
As Ive said, compensation is appropriate here as AESEL did let Mr J down. To put things 
right it has offered to reduce his debt by £200. Having thought about the frustration Mr J has 
been caused by this matter, and the need to contact multiple parties to rectify things, I 
consider that a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to 
reduce Mr Js outstanding balance by £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman