DRN-3652375
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with some of the service received from DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited from 22 March 2022 in respect of her medical negligence claim.
What happened
Mrs B has previously brought a complaint to this service about DAS. This complaint is 
about the actions of DAS from 22 March 2022. But it doesnt include the later complaint 
about the Data Subject Access Request which was dealt with in a final response letter 
dated 2 September 2022. If Mrs B wishes us to look at that later complaint she will need 
to bring this to us separately or she can bring her complaint to the Information 
Commissioners Office  the data protection authority for the United Kingdom.
By the 22 March 2022, following Mrs Bs claim regarding poor dental treatment, DAS had 
instructed three firms of solicitors to act for her. Mrs B wasnt happy with either of the first 
two firms of solicitors  both of whom felt trust had broken down between them and Mrs B - 
and requested a third firm be appointed. When the third set of solicitors were appointed DAS 
told Mrs B that if this firm was dis-instructed for any non-valid reason then it reserved the 
right to withdraw cover (in line with the policy). It also reminded Mrs B of her obligation to co-
operate with the solicitors.
On 22 March 2022, Mrs B raised concerns with DAS about the third firm of solicitors (which I 
will call T). Her concerns were about the amount of progress being made on her case, the 
contact she was receiving from T and the level of experience the case handler at T had. The 
same day DAS contacted T to share the concerns. DAS then phoned Mrs B back also the 
same day.
The next day Mrs B rang DAS to say that T was no longer happy to act as they felt there had 
been a breakdown in relations. DAS told Mrs B it would need to hear from T what had 
happened and would get back to her. T told DAS on 23 March 2022 that relations had 
broken down. It set out in detail what had happened and also provided a copy of its email to 
Mrs B explaining why it couldnt act for her any longer.
Mrs B phoned DAS on 28 March to say she had sent an email to DAS on 23 March and she 
wanted to complain. In her email she explained that when she thought her call with T had 
ended and she was speaking only to her husband she told him (using words that included 
swear words) how hopeless she thought the person she was dealing with at T was. She felt 
her private conversation had been eavesdropped on and her words had been twisted.
On 30 March, DAS took the decision to withdraw cover. Mrs B was informed, and she raised 
a complaint. In the period of months that followed whilst Mrs B chased DAS repeatedly and 
explained her mental health was suffering.
This investigator issued a view which didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She was 
satisfied that when Mrs B raised concerns with the DAS these were investigated and under 
the terms of her policy, DAS was not required to provide her with any further cover.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view. She raised a service complaint which has 
been looked at by an ombudsman manager. She said she had constantly to call DAS from 
the start and that DAS didnt keep her solicitors updated. As a result, she has lost an 
important dental negligence case and her claim impacted on her ability to get home and 
contents insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say how sorry I am that Mrs B experienced problems with her dental treatment. 
It was clearly very upsetting. I am also sorry that her experience of claiming has been very 
upsetting and has affected her and her husbands mental health. The decision, however, is 
solely about the conduct of DAS from 22 March 2022 until she complained about the DAS 
withdrawing cover and DASs response to her complaint about that period. I do not have the 
jurisdiction to look at a complaint about any of the law firms involved in Mrs Bs case and so 
nothing I say in this decision should be read as me taking any view on their conduct.
As DAS explained to Mrs B when T, the third law firm, were appointed, under the terms of 
the policy it could withdraw cover:
"If the appointed  representative  refuses  to continue  acting  for you with good  reason,  
or if you dismiss  the appointed  representative  without  good  reason,  the cover  we 
provide  will end immediately,  unless  we agree  to appoint  another  appointed  
representative".
I think  DAS  acted  reasonably  when  it ended  cover.  Mrs B admitted  that she had had 
a heated  argument  with the lawyer  from T. She said she didnt  swear  at her but 
when  she thought  the phone  call was finished  she said to her husband  that [swear  
word]  [lawyers  name]  is as usual  [swear  word]  hopeless . Whilst she regarded this 
conversation as private I think it wasnt unreasonable for DAS to conclude that T had 
good reason to refuse to act for Mrs B. This is especially so as T had told DAS that: we 
cannot tolerate wholly unjustified criticism, defamatory remarks about our staff and 
abuse by telephone. I appreciate that Mrs B was suffering a great deal of stress at this 
time, but in the context of a breakdown in relations between her and three law firms, and 
the information contained in her email and in Ts letter, I cannot agree that DAS acted 
unreasonably.
Having looked at DASs file from 22 March 2022 until 21 July 2022 I think that it was 
generally fairly responsive to her and I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman