DRN-4463116
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the poor service he received from Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Mulsanne in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In March 2023 thieves broke into Mr Ms home and stole car keys to the familys cars and 
attempted to steal them. Mr Ms car was damaged by his fathers car during the attempt. So 
Mr M reported the damage and made a claim to his insurer, Mulsanne. 
Mr M sent Mulsanne an estimate for a dealership garage to repair his car, but after receiving 
it, Mulsanne couldnt locate it. When the dealership garage representative tried to collect Mr 
Ms car from storage, Mr M had to contact Mulsanne as it hadnt authorised its release. 
The incident took place on 25 March 2023. Mr M provided an estimate on 29 March 2023. 
Mr Ms car was released from storage for the dealership garage to collect on 12 April 2023. 
During this time Mr M has shown he made multiple calls and emails to Mulsanne to progress 
his claim. 
Mr M complained to Mulsanne in April 2023. He was unhappy with the delay in processing 
his claim, long wait times when calling and poor service, and not being provided with a 
courtesy car. 
Mulsanne upheld most of Mr Ms complaints. It said that it had dealt with Mr Ms claim within 
a reasonable timeframe. And it said as Mr M didnt use an approved repairer, it wasnt 
required to provide a courtesy car in line with the policy. But it accepted he had received a 
poor service and it wasnt reasonable to have to wait in long queues to speak to it. 
Mulsanne offered Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator 
recommended Mulsanne increase the compensation to £250, to reflect the inconvenience 
caused to Mr M. 
Mulsanne agreed. Mr M didnt think it was enough to resolve his complaint. So the case has 
been passed back to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the service Mr M received from Mulsanne was poor. He has shown 
he made many calls to Mulsanne over a short period of time to progress his claim - and 
particularly I think he shouldnt have had to be involved in the issues between the dealership 
garage and the storage company when they werent able to collect his car to carry out 
repairs. 
We do think its expected to spend some of our own time and to have some inconvenience 
when having to deal with a claim. This is inevitable. But I think Mulsanne caused over and 
above what I would consider reasonable in this case. 
Mr M was entitled to a courtesy car as he didnt use an approved repairer - in line with the 
policy. And Mr M told us the dealership garage provided him with a courtesy car for the 
duration of repairs. 
I understand Mr M doesnt agree with the recommended compensation award of £250. The 
awards we give are modest, and while Ive considered the inconvenience Mulsannes poor 
service caused, Ive also taken into account the length of the delay. From the date of 
reporting the incident to the date Mr Ms car was collected by the dealership, it was just over 
two weeks. I therefore find a fair and reasonable compensation award is £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Mulsanne Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr M £250 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman