DRN-3892651
Complaint
Mr K has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says he was tackling a gambling problem at the time and shouldnt have 
been lent to.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr K with a loan for £2,000.00 in November 2019. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £120. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
what Mr K and 118 118 Money had told us. And she thought that 118 118 Money hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ks 
complaint be upheld. Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr K complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr K could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ks application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr K could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr K has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr K and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and 
expenditure information recorded at the time of Mr Ks application as well as a record of the 
results of its credit searches. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Mr Ks existing 
commitments at the time were being relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the 
credit searches, Mr Ks debt total at the time of the applications was reasonable in 
comparison to his income and there wasnt anything that called into question the accuracy of 
the other income and expenditure information gathered either. 
I accept that Mr K appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent have been 
fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money 
obtained. Equally I accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Mr K 
appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements it may have seen 
why Mr K says he shouldnt have been lent to. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money was providing a loan with relatively low monthly 
payments over a relatively short period of time. And its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended further  especially given what was obtained 
showed Mr K was in a relatively stable financial position. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr K - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr K  especially as he says hes had other complaints upheld. But I 
hope hell understand the reasons for the decision Ive reached in this particular case and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman