DRN-2582777
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here was 
about five years old and had already completed about 43,750 miles.
Mr F experienced some issues with the car in the first few months. A new engine and new 
catalytic converter were fitted. I think its fair to say Mr F accepted these repairs. Im 
persuaded they were completed to an adequate standard as Mr F has been able to travel 
several thousand miles in the car subsequently without any issues that I think could fairly be 
related to these repairs, and because the independent inspector has explained he believes 
the engine replacement has been completed correctly.
I think the clutch problems are most probably related to wear and tear and that it would not 
be reasonable to hold Oodle responsible for rectification. I say that because I think the clutch 
is an item that wears over time and, whilst I understand Mr F would have liked the clutch to 
last longer than it has, I dont think its unusual for a clutch to fail after 50,000 or so miles. I 
understand Mr F thinks the clutch should have been replaced when the engine was, but Ive 
not seen any supporting evidence that that is the correct procedure. The independent 
inspector thinks the engine replacement was done correctly and Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence to contradict his expert view that the clutch was not failing when the car was 
supplied. 
So, overall, I dont think it would be fair to ask Oodle to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman