The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt properly pursue a chargeback request on 
her behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 July 2020 - a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I intended to uphold Mrs C's complaint in part and how I thought HSBC 
should resolve it. I said:
What happened 
Mrs C said, in July 2017, she booked a ticket for a flight from a website costing around £550. 
She paid using her HSBC debit card. And Mrs C said the ticket entitled her to take a flight 
anytime within two years of the purchase date. Mrs C said, while she was never provided 
with a ticket she was able to use, she was able to book a flight. However, the flight shed 
booked was cancelled two days before she was due to fly as the ticket was fake.
On 1 July 2019, she contacted HSBC to dispute the transaction so she could get her money 
back. HSBC said it referred the matter to its Dispute Team to review, who raised a 
chargeback claim and credited Mrs Cs account with the disputed amount pending an 
investigation.
HSBC told Mrs C it had submitted her chargeback request to VISA. But it had rejected her 
claim because the timescales within which shed need to raise a claim had expired. So 
HSBC arranged to debit Mrs Cs account with the disputed amount. And the funds debited 
her account on 1 August 2019.
Mrs C wasnt happy about the way in which HSBC had investigated and pursued 
her chargeback request. She felt it hadnt done enough to get her money back. So, 
she complained.
HSBC investigated Mrs Cs concerns. But it didnt uphold her complaint because it said 
shed have needed to raise a chargeback dispute within 540 days of the transaction. And it 
said she hadnt complied with that deadline as she hadnt contacted it until 720 days after 
making the transaction. So, she was time barred.
Mrs C wasnt happy with HSBCs response to her complaint. So she referred it to our 
service. But, while our investigator empathised with Mrs C, they didnt uphold her complaint. 
Overall, they didnt think HSBC had acted unreasonably as it didnt set the time limits for the 
chargeback scheme and they were persuaded that Mrs C hadnt asked it to raise a 
chargeback request in time. So, they didnt think HSBC needed to do anymore here. But Mrs 
C disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
DRN-2019316 What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from what 
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mrs C has raised some concerns about the adequacy of our investigators 
investigation into her complaint.  But Im satisfied our investigator has requested all the 
evidence Id have expected them to ask for from both Mrs C and HSBC. I should also point 
out that Ive considered all of that information afresh before making a final decision. Id like to 
assure Mrs C that the information I have is clear and I dont need any more to be able to 
reach a decision here.
I can understand why Mrs C is upset about not being refunded for the ticket she purchased  
its a lot of money to lose. However, my role is to assess whether I think HSBC made a 
mistake, or treated Mrs C unfairly in dealing with her chargeback request, such that it needs 
to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and HSBC have 
said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs C will be disappointed by this 
outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my decision.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs C wasnt able to use the flight ticket she purchased in July 2017. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, and the action Mrs C took, Im satisfied that she had 
grounds for disputing the transaction in question.
I can see our investigator explained how the chargeback process works and the time limits 
involved in making a claim. But, Id like to reiterate that information for Mrs Cs benefit.
Chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. So, in certain 
circumstances a customer may ask their card issuer to reverse payments made on their card 
 such as where there's a problem with the transaction as there was here. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary code. So, a consumer doesnt have a right to bring a 
claim. Although theres no obligation on HSBC to do a chargeback, our service considers it 
good practice for a business to try to claim if it has good reason to do so. But its important to 
note that, even if a chargeback is raised, theres no guarantee a consumer will receive a 
refund. And individual card issuers have their own rules to say how the scheme works.
The card issuer here is VISA and, in this particular case, the rules mean that the chargeback 
request needed to be logged within 540 days of either the date of the transaction. There is 
no flexibility within the rules of the scheme, so a chargeback request cant be raised outside 
the time frames allowed by VISA.
It isnt disputed that Mrs C didnt contact HSBC until 1 July 2019 to ask it to raise a 
chargeback request on her behalf. This was 720 days after the date she purchased the ticket 
online. However, the rules mean that the chargeback request needed to be made by 2 
January 2019 at the latest. 
I appreciate that Mrs C wouldnt have necessarily known that there was a problem with her 
ticket until it was cancelled days before she was due to fly. However, as Ive mentioned 
already, the 540 day time limit is strict and a chargeback cant be raised once that deadline 
has expired. The time limit isnt anything HSBC can influence or control. And, while I understand Mrs C 
reasons for not raising a chargeback request sooner, it isnt HSBCs fault the deadline was 
missed either. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs C  shes lost a lot of money. But by the time she 
contacted HSBC to dispute the transaction it was already too late for the chargeback request 
to be made. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with Mrs Cs 
chargeback request in line with the time limits set by VISA. And it wouldnt be fair to ask it to 
repay the money Mrs C lost.
Ill turn now to the final part of Mrs Cs complaint, which is about the service she received 
from HSBC.
Whilst the rules of the scheme may be unfamiliar to consumers it is reasonable to expect 
financial businesses to have a better understanding of them. 
Mrs C wasnt aware of the 540 day time limit and she said HSBC didnt tell her about the 
time limit in which a chargeback claim had to be raised when she first contacted it on 1 July 
2019.
It should have been obvious to HSBC at the outset that the claim was outside the 540 day 
time limit. And I think HSBC should have told Mrs C about the applicable time limits from the 
outset in order to manage her expectations. By failing to do so, I believe that false hope was 
raised in Mrs Cs mind that she had a chance to get her money back.  
HSBC now accepts that raising a chargeback request on Mrs Cs behalf when it was already 
substantially out of time set an unfair expectation that the funds she lost may have been 
returned to her. 
Im persuaded that this caused Mrs C distress and inconvenience. And I think an award of 
compensation is warranted in the circumstances. But I think its important to make it clear 
that this award is not related to the decision to reject Mrs Cs chargeback claim; its for the 
poor service and lack of information Mrs C received. 
Ive carefully considered the overall impact of HSBCs shortfalls in service on Mrs C and I 
think £50 is a reasonable amount of compensation to ask HSBC to pay here. Its in line with 
our approach in similar scenarios. I can see that HSBC has agreed to pay that sum. 
So for the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold this 
complaint in part only to the extent that HSBC should pay Mrs C £50. This is to reflect that a 
chargeback request was raised on her behalf when it was already substantially out of time. 
But other than this Im not minded to direct HSBC to do anymore.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. HSBC indicated it accepts my 
provisional decision and Mrs C stated she was unhappy with, and didnt accept, it. However, 
she didnt put forward any reasons why she disagreed with the provisional comments Id 
made about her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to those set 
out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision I still think HSBC should pay Mrs C £50 
to resolve this complaint to reflect that a chargeback request was raised on her behalf when 
it was already substantially out of time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent that HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should pay Mrs C £50. This is to reflect that a chargeback request was raised on her 
behalf when it was already substantially out of time. But other than this Im not minded to 
direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman