DRN-4288904
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the settlement she received from Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
(AI) under her motor insurance policy after her car was written off following an accident. 
She was also unhappy with the way the claim and the repairs were handled. 
What happened
Mrs K is represented in bringing this complaint by a third party. References I make to Mrs 
Ks actions include those of her representative. 
AI is the underwriter of the policy, i.e. it is the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents for which AI has accepted accountability. Any reference to AI includes 
the actions of its agents. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here. 
Mrs K has a motor insurance policy underwritten by AI. She was involved in a 
collision in a car park and, following inspection, AI said her car was a write off. 
Mrs K complained about a number of things related to the claim. She was unhappy 
with AIs initial settlement offer and said shed felt under pressure to accept this. She 
felt the deduction AI quoted for the salvage buy back was unreasonable as shed had 
a lower quote. She was unhappy with the clarity of AIs explanation of what 
documentation she would need to provide to ensure continuation of insurance cover. 
Additionally, Mrs K also believed the rear bumper of the car had been further 
damaged while the car was in the care of AIs agents. She was also unhappy when 
she called at AIs agent, the car wasnt ready to collect so she had a wasted journey. 
AI issued two final responses to her complaint. Mrs K remained unhappy and brought 
her complaint to this Service. During our investigation, AI increased its settlement 
offer for the value of the car. Our Investigator considered the evidence and provided 
his findings, which Ive briefly summarised below. 
He thought AIs increased settlement offer was reasonable but he thought AI should 
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience its previous offer had caused. He didnt 
think AI had put Mrs K under pressure to accept the settlement. He thought the 
salvage value quoted by AI was reasonable. While some of the required 
documentation had been provided, some hadnt and he thought AIs timescales had 
been reasonable 
He recommended AI pay £100 for the inconvenience of Mrs Ks wasted trip to collect 
the car. And a further £100 for the incorrect information the broker acting for AI had 
provided. 
AI accepted the findings but Mrs K remained unhappy as she thought the broker was 
responsible for further losses she said shed incurred. So the case has come to me 
for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From my review of this complaint, it seems to me the main outstanding point of contention is 
around the actions of the broker which Mrs K says was acting on AIs behalf and the 
information it provided her with.
Seemingly, the remainder of the points have been resolved to Mrs Ks satisfaction following 
our intervention and the explanations provided by our Investigator. But for the sake of 
completeness, Ill briefly touch on these as well.
The settlement offer
Having considered the evidence on file, Im in agreement the increased vehicle valuation of 
£4,270 - plus 8% interest on the increased amount - is fair and reasonable for the reasons 
explained by our Investigator. Mrs K has confirmed shes accepted the £200 compensation 
already paid by AI as a fair way for it to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the previous lower offer. 
Ive not seen enough to persuade me Mrs K was pressurised into accepting the settlement 
offer. And given Im satisfied it was a fair sum, this wouldnt be likely to change my position 
even if Mrs K could demonstrate this.
The deduction for salvage
AI has supplied evidence from a salvage expert to support the figure it deducted for salvage 
and Im satisfied it was reasonable for AI to rely on this for the same reasons provided by the 
Investigator.  
The damaged bumper
AI has shown the rear bumper was already damaged in the accident and needed 
replacement as it was irrepairable. So whether or not further damage occurred while the car 
was in AIs agents care doesnt make a difference as the bumper replacement had already 
been accounted for. 
Collection of the car
There doesnt seem to be conclusive proof around what was said to Mrs K about the car 
being ready to collect before her wasted journey. But AI has accepted the Investigators 
recommendation and paid Mrs K £100 for the inconvenience she experienced when the car 
wasnt ready and Mrs K seemingly has accepted this. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
The documentation required to continue cover
AI sent Mrs K a letter letting her know what documentation she would need to provide to the 
broker to ensure continuance of cover. She provided some of the documentation but not all 
of it but despite this, when she contacted the broker, it confirmed the documentation was 
acceptable and cover would continue but this later turned out to be incorrect.AI has seemingly accepted the broker was acting as its agent at this time and that it is 
responsible for any mistakes the broker made. I acknowledge the broker provided incorrect 
information to Mrs K and she says this happened on a number of occasions. This was 
clearly misleading and I understand why it caused Mrs K distress and inconvenience when 
she later found the policy was going to be cancelled due to incomplete documentation. 
But I do have to balance this against what AI had already told her about the requirements. 
Ive considered its letter of 19 May 2023 very carefully and Im satisfied this clearly explains 
exactly what is required. 
Im satisfied the letter was addressed correctly and, on balance, I think it more likely Mrs K 
received it as reference is made to its contents in her testimony. So while I acknowledge the 
broker caused an error and provided incorrect information, Im satisfied AI had previously 
made its requirements clear to Mrs K. And because of this, I wont be asking AI to pay 
further costs Mrs K says she incurred but I will consider the distress the error caused.
Ive thought about this very carefully and having done so, I think AI should pay Mrs K £100 
for the incorrect information it provided her, on top of the £300 its already paid for the other 
issues. I realise Mrs K doesnt think this additional £100 is sufficient, but Im satisfied it is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
to pay Mrs K £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman