DRN-3046094
The complaint
Mr and Ms S are unhappy at the interest and charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
added to their overdraft over the years.
What happened
Mr and Ms S complained to Santander that when facing financial difficulties it failed to offer 
adequate support and levied excessive charges on their account. One of our adjudicators 
looked into their concerns and reached the conclusion Santander hadnt done anything 
wrong or treated Mr and Ms S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr 
and Ms S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr and Ms S raised their complaint on 25 July 2019 in relation to charges applied to their 
overdraft from July 2000. Six years before they raised their complaint is 26 July 2013. And 
as the charges for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Mr and Ms S at the time 
they were being applied, I think they ought to have known enough to decide whether they 
were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when they 
ought to be reasonably aware they had reason to complaint provides Mr and Ms S with a 
longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from 26 July 
2013.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Ss complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr S has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Ms S if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Ms Ss account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Ms S were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mr and Ms S 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think that Santander did treat Mr and Ms S unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Ms Ss statements I 
cant see anything to suggest that Santander ought to have realised they might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. I accept that Mr and Ms S 
were using the overdraft regularly and there were some months where the account didnt 
see a credit balance, but the overdraft was eventually cleared in full. 
Furthermore, there were regular deposits of salary into the account and Mr and Ms S were 
often able to bring the account into credit before once again going on to use their overdraft to 
make debit card transactions.  I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken 
together) mean that Mr and Ms S werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt 
anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Santander to any 
potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Ms Ss account was 
being used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander treated Mr and Ms S 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Ms S. But I hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman