DRN-3301065
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly turned down his claim for subsidence 
damage under his Residential Property Owners Policy.
All references to QIC include its appointed agents.
What happened
Ill briefly outline the events leading up to my decision. Both parties have provided detailed 
submissions for me to consider, and I want to reassure them that Ive read, and carefully 
considered the evidence provided. 
Around 2018, Mr B raised a claim to QIC for damage to a property he owns. The damage 
was predominately linked to a cracked concrete floor slab which had heaved upwards. 
QIC appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster recommended the 
claim be turned down. It said the policy excludes, Damage to solid floor slabs or resulting 
from their movement unless the foundations beneath the external walls of the Buildings are 
damaged at the same time and from the same cause. And it couldnt see any evidence the 
external wall foundations had been affected by the ground movement underneath the floor 
slab at the same time and by the same cause.
Mr B raised a complaint about QICs decision to turn down the claim. He was unhappy with 
the exclusion QIC relied on. Mr B also didnt think the investigations had ruled out 
subsidence as a cause of damage, so he referred the complaint to our service.
Our service investigated the complaint in November 2019, and it was upheld. Our 
investigator recommended that QIC needed to conduct further tests and report as to the 
cause of the damage, before it could fairly rule out subsidence or rely on an exclusion to turn 
down the claim. The complaint was then closed.
QIC agreed and offered three engineers to Mr B to carry out further investigations. Mr B 
chose H, who arranged further investigations and completed a report. 
H determined that Mr B may have cause to claim for Accidental Damage to the drains  but 
that these werent related to the ground movement affecting the concrete slab. H concluded 
the most probable cause of the damage was due to a localised rise in the ground water 
level, and it said the most probable root cause for expansion of the underlying granular 
material causing the observed heave of the ground floor slab is the construction of the rear 
extension at [the neighbouring property].  
Based on Hs conclusions, QIC maintained its position to turn down the claim.
Mr B disagreed with Hs conclusions and raised a further complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and didnt recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded QIC had shown the policy exclusion applied, and that based on Hs report the 
claim couldnt succeed under any of the other insured events on the policy.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I can consider
The focus of my decision is on whether QICs decision to turn down the claim for damage to 
the floor based upon Hs report is fair and reasonable. And if QIC has relied on a policy 
exclusion, whether it has shown the exclusion fairly applies.
Hs report suggests there may be a claim for Accidental Damage to the drains of Mr Bs 
property. And I acknowledge that this may reveal further evidence regarding the cause of 
damage should Mr B choose to pursue this. But my role is to decide if QICs position is fair 
and reasonable based on the current available evidence. 
Although the previous complaint with our service already considered all the expert reports up 
to the point the investigator issued their findings, I can see H has also reviewed the previous 
expert reports for context. 
Therefore, Ive also reviewed all the previous expert reports in order to reach a relevant and 
fair outcome here. Ill first summarise the positions of both parties as I see it:
QIC says:
The initial loss adjuster visit didnt find any significant fracturing in the external walls. 
Given the magnitude of movement in the internal floor slab, if the movement had 
affected the external walls it seems likely this would have been evident.
An independent engineer (D) advised there was no evidence of significant vertical 
of lateral displacement to the external walls of the property and no evidence of 
damage to the external walls that may be attributed to foundation movement.
Whilst the exact cause of the cracking to the front and side walls hasnt been defined, 
Hs investigations (conducted by a specialist contractor Q) havent shown that any 
remedial repairs are needed to the foundations beneath the external walls. And the 
policy doesnt cover investigations to assess potential future risks as recommended 
in the report.
The quotations provided by Mr B for the repair work dont include any requirement to 
repair the external wall or foundations.
It had reviewed the further photos of wall cracking that Mr B sent in, and its in-house 
engineer concluded it wasnt indicative of subsidence movement.
Whilst it notes Mr Bs position that the cracks in the external wall are related to the 
movement of the floor slabs, this hasnt been supported by the independent expert 
reports of H or D. Mr B says:
There were cracks found to the external wall after Hs report and this, coupled with 
the external wall movements suggests theres damage to the external foundations.
There wasnt any conclusive evidence to show the foundations were undamaged as 
the trial pits didnt excavate deep enough to show this.
The monitoring evidence and verticality readings show the external walls have 
moved and they can only do so if the foundations on which they sit also move. This in 
turn suggests the heave to the concrete slab floor has also damaged the external 
wall foundations.
He only needs to prove that the walls have moved for the claim to succeed.
What I think
Im not persuaded that the evidence Mr Bs presented is either conclusive enough, or 
persuasive enough to overturn the investigations and conclusions of QIC; that the damage to 
the floor slab is excluded by the policy. Ill explain why below.
Im not persuaded that the vertical movement shown to the walls means that QIC can no 
longer rely on the exclusion, Damage to solid floor slabs or resulting from their movement 
unless the foundations beneath the external walls of the Buildings are damaged at the 
same time and from the same cause.. The movement exhibited here wasnt present when 
the claim was made in 2018. And considering all of the investigations and reports, Im more 
persuaded that the evidence shows this movement is due to the lack of mitigation in the floor 
slab. QICs loss adjuster has also made a similar point here.
I dont dispute that the evidence does show some vertical movement within the walls. But 
after carefully reviewing all of the reports, and taking into account some time has passed 
since the claim was first raised, I dont find a conclusive link to show the damage to the floor 
has also damaged the foundations and by the same cause. And this is what was originally 
claimed for.
The evidence states that the issue of heave appears to be isolated to Mr Bs property and no 
adjoining properties have been affected. As such, I find it reasonable to assume that if the 
ground was moving to such an extent that the foundations were also affected in 2018, then 
any related damage wouldve showed at a much earlier stage in the claim, given the level of 
distortion discovered in the concrete slab.
I acknowledge Mr B strongly feels that any foundation movement shows that it is damaged, 
but foundations can move for a variety of reasons due to the surrounding ground conditions, 
and this is why investigations are usually required to eliminate the causes of the movement, 
and to see if this movement is linked to damage.
Im satisfied QIC has given due consideration to the evidence provided by Mr B, and 
explained why it hasnt changed the outcome. QIC isnt required to definitively state what 
has caused the movement once it has done enough to fairly conclude that the claim wont 
succeed. And for the same reason, I dont think it would be reasonable for QIC to excavate 
the foundations to prove whether they are damaged or not when on balance Im satisfied its 
shown the exclusion applies.
So, taking everything into account, and acknowledging that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, I conclude QIC has acted fairly in turning down this claim based on 
the available evidence.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman