DRN-2725904
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited unfairly turned down a claim he made 
on his Homecare home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a Homecare home emergency policy provided by British Gas from about 
2010. His policy covered all repairs to the mains electrical system and wiring in the 
property and included accidental damage cover.
In February 2019, Mr S instructed a third-party to upgrade the fuse box in his house to a 
consumer unit. Just over two weeks after the third-party installed the consumer unit, 
British Gas went out to Mr Ss house, as hed reported problems with some of his 
electrical wiring. According to what Mr S said, he thought the problem might have been 
caused by him inadvertently puncturing the wiring when hitting a nail into the wall.
British Gass engineer noted there was no RCD protection on SKT CCT on the new 
consumer unit. And, British Gas later declined Mr Ss claim because it said it was a 
pre- existing issue that only came to light when the new consumer unit was installed.
Mr S thought the installation of the new consumer unit simply highlighted an existing 
problem with the wiring rather than caused it. And he says the third-party installer 
confirmed that. So, he complained to British Gas and said he wanted to understand the 
legal basis for its decision to turn down his claim. He was particularly unhappy because he 
said if there had been a way to identify the fault before the consumer unit installation got 
underway, British Gas would likely have repaired it.
British Gas responded in June 2019. It said due to pre existing faults, we are unable to 
make repairs in relation to your consumer unit. And when explaining its decision further, it 
said the notes from our engineer states there is no RCD protection on socket. That can 
only be the case after the new consumer unit has been installed.
Mr S complained to us. Our investigator asked Mr S if he could provide the third-party 
installers comments regarding the issues he came across when he completed the work 
at Mr Ss house. The managing director of the company said theyd isolated two 
electrical points from the main circuit due to an underlying issue with the wiring. He said 
this could be due to a number of different things, including the age of the wiring or poor 
installation methods. The third-party installer confirmed theyd otherwise left things in a 
safe and functional condition.
We shared the third-partys comments with British Gas. We didnt hear anything more, 
so our investigator decided, based on the evidence shed seen, to uphold the complaint. 
She said Mr S had had Homecare insurance with British Gas for about 10 years (and his 
policy included accidental damage cover). The investigator thought for British Gas to rely 
on a policy exclusion surrounding existing damage, it would have to show the damage 
occurred more than ten years ago  and before Mr S took out his policy. She also 
thought that, on balance, the damage to the wiring was more likely to have happened at 
some point during the earlier period of continuous cover. For those reasons, she didnt 
think British Gas had acted fairly when declining the claim. And she recommended it 
reconsider it within the remaining terms of the policy.
Mr S accepted the investigators assessment. British Gas didnt and gave us further 
comments. Amongst other things, it said the third-party who installed the consumer 
unit should have tested every circuit to identify faults before installing it. And, as 
British Gas didnt think the third-party had done that, it said it was right to reject the 
claim.
Our investigator sent further comments for British Gas to consider. She said she 
thought it unfair that had the third-party installer identified the fault and allowed British 
Gas to fix it before the consumer unit was installed, British Gas would have accepted 
the claim. But because the third-party installed the unit before telling Mr S about the 
problem, British Gas rejected the claim for reasons beyond Mr Ss control. The 
investigator didnt think the faulty wiring happened when the new consumer unit was 
installed (the suggestion appearing to be that it wouldnt have been fair for British Gas 
to rely on an exclusion surrounding defective workmanship by a third-party). And she 
thought it was more likely the result of accidental damage during the period of 
continuous cover. So, the investigator thought the claim should be payable under the 
policy.
British Gas again said there wasnt a problem with the electrics when the original fuse box 
was installed. It said the problem only became apparent when the third-party updated the 
controls. It added that as the third-party installer had indicated (having previously 
suggested otherwise) it had completed an initial electric circuit test, then the claim would 
fall under other terms and conditions of the Homecare policy (under the heading of non 
insurance products) and a specific section called Electrical Installation Report. British 
Gas indicated the claim would probably be declined under that section of the policy too. 
Finally, British Gas again said that if there had been a problem with the electrics reported 
with the existing fuse box/consumer unit it would have resolved the issue.
Our investigator again told British Gas that the damage to the wiring most likely happened 
after the initial unit was installed but before the consumer unit was fitted. And, as she was 
satisfied it didnt happen as part of the upgrade (again the suggestion seeming to be that 
the third-party installer hadnt caused the damage), she again thought it should be 
covered by the remaining terms of Mr Ss policy.
British Gas didnt agree and again referred to other terms and conditions Electrical 
Installation Condition Report, whats not included: Any repairs to faults identified 
during testing and inspection. It said its position remained the same.
As British Gas didnt agree, the matters been passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I sent Mr S and British Gas my provisional findings on 2 March 2021. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss homecare policy provided cover for all repairs to the mains electrical system 
and wiring. But like many insurance policies, there are also a number of exclusions 
within the policy.British Gas turned down the claim because it said the problem was pre-existing and 
that it only came to light when the new consumer unit was installed.
The policy definition of pre-existing faults is:
Were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
Existed when you first took out the product;
Weve told you about before and you havent fixed;
We couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before. For 
example faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, which are buried 
under concrete floors;
Or prevent access because a part of your system has permanently been built over.
Theres no dispute that the wiring in Mr Ss home needed to be repaired. So, the issue I 
need to consider here is whether it was fair and reasonable for British Gas to turn down 
the claim for the reasons it did. And, Im not currently persuaded it was.
British Gas had been providing Mr Ss homecare cover for a number of years. And Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest there was a problem with the wiring when Mr S first took out 
his policy. British Gas seems to accept that. Nor is there evidence to suggest British Gas 
told  Mr S about a problem before and he hadnt had it repaired. And, as none of the other 
examples within the policy exclusion seem to apply either, Im not persuaded that the 
circumstances fit the definition of a pre-existing issue as set out within the policy. 
And British Gas has also argued that as the issue only came to light when the new 
consumer unit was installed by a third-party - the suggestion being that must have had 
something to do with the faulty wiring  it said its right to decline the claim on the basis of 
a pre-existing issue.
But that wasnt British Gass only reasoning. Its comments also indicated it had some 
concern about the quality of the workmanship by the third-party. And, whilst not 
explicitly stated, it seems to be suggesting that another policy exclusion might also 
apply in these circumstances. Amongst its additional reasons, British Gas said the 
third-party installer hadnt checked every circuit before installing the new consumer 
unit; failed to provide an installation certificate; and hadnt isolated a faulty circuit. For 
these reasons (amongst others) British Gas felt it was right to stand by its decision to 
turn down the claim.
Im not persuaded by these arguments. Firstly, the third-party has explained that it had 
been tasked with upgrading the consumer unit and not with providing a full electrical 
installation report. And it also said that when it identified the faulty wiring it isolated two 
electrical points from the rest of the circuit to enable the installation to continue. So, I think 
this provides a plausible explanation for some of what happened.
British Gas also seemed to suggest that the fact there was no RCD in place also cast 
doubt about the quality of the third-partys work.
I accept that it wouldnt be fair to expect an insurer to put right damage thats caused by a 
third-partys work  particularly if the work was so inadequate so as to lead to further work.
And theres an exclusion in Mr Ss policy under the heading of Damage caused by 
anyone but us. It says:If anyone  other  than us carries  out any work  on your boiler,  appliance  or system  and 
damages  it, your cover  doesnt  include  putting  that right.
But for British Gas to rely on the kind of policy exclusion Ive referred to above, it wouldnt 
be enough to simply say the work wasnt completed to a high enough standard. British 
Gas would have to show that the third-partys work was the cause of the damaged wiring.
And, Im not currently persuaded its done enough to show that. As far as Im aware an 
RCD (residual current device) is a sensitive safety device, which switches off electricity if 
theres a fault. It seems these are installed within a consumer unit and can provide 
protection to individual or groups of circuits. So, whilst I can appreciate British Gass 
concern about no RCD being present, theres nothing to say thats likely to have caused 
the damage to the wiring. And the fact that the problem with the wiring only came to light 
once the third-partys installation got underway, doesnt in itself mean the third-partys 
work was the cause of it.
Further, British Gas has confirmed that it would likely have repaired the faulty wiring if it 
had been identified before the new consumer unit was installed. But as it wasnt raised 
until after the consumer unit was in place, it thinks its another basis upon which its able 
to classify the problem as pre-existing. Irrespective of whether Mr S highlighted the 
problem before or after the consumer unit was installed, Ive already said why I dont think 
the particular circumstances of Mr Ss claim meet the definition of a pre-existing fault as 
described within the policy. I remain of that opinion. And, it follows that Im not persuaded 
by the additional arguments British Gas has made to support its decision.
For completeness Ill say here that I wont be commenting on the specific points that 
British Gas made about the claim likely being excluded under the Electrical Installation 
Condition Report section of the homecare policy. Thats because the products included 
under that section of the homecare policy are not insurance products provided by British 
Gas Insurance Limited and are provided by a different business.
For all the reasons Ive outlined, Im not currently persuaded that British Gas Insurance 
Limited has done enough to show it was fair and reasonable for it to turn down Mr Ss 
claim. And I think its one that is covered by the policy terms Ive referred to. So, Ive set 
out below the action Im intending to say British Gas needs to take to put things right now. 
It also seems Mr S has been put to unnecessary trouble as a result of British Gass 
handling of things. So, I think it should pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional findings, but British Gas didnt. Amongst its comments, British 
Gas again said that:
There wasnt a fault with Mr Ss electrics when the original fuse board/consumer unit 
was installed and the fault only became apparent after additional updated controls 
were installed when the new consumer unit was fitted by a third party. 
Had there been a fault with Mr Ss existing fuse board /consumer unit it would have 
resolved it under the Homecare policy, however in this case there was an 
expectation that an existing wiring circuit installed a period of time ago (sic), to meet 
todays regulations and circuit control, without any faults.
As it thought the fault only became apparent after additional updated controls were 
installed when the new consumer unit was fitted by the third party, it wouldnt be covered as per its terms and conditions, Electrical Installation Condition Report 
Whats not included Any repairs to faults identified during testing and inspection.
My findings
British Gas hasnt given me any new comments or information to consider. And its made the 
same comments it made previously, each of which Id considered or directly addressed in 
my provisional decision. Given that, I see no reason to change what I said in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And I now direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy by repairing the 
faulty wiring. Or (as is likely) if Mr S has already had the work done and paid for 
it, subject to invoices being provided, it should reimburse Mr S for the cost of that 
repair work. 
If British Gas Insurance Limited provides a cash settlement instead of arranging 
and paying for the work itself, it should also pay Mr S simple interest of 8% a 
year from the date of claim to the date of final settlement.
Pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
handling of Mr Ss claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman