DRN-1932674
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that after agreeing to pay his claim for accidental damage, AXA Insurance 
UK Plc (AXA) then declined it. 
What happened
Mr W had building and contents insurance with AXA, including accidental damage for named 
individual items. 
A glass of water was knocked onto Mr Ws laptop, cracking the screen. The laptop was 
insured as an individual item on his policy, so he made a claim to AXA. It asked Mr W to get 
a quote for repair. A few minutes later, AXA called him back to say the damage wasnt 
covered because hed said his cat knocked the glass and his policy excluded damage 
caused by pets. Mr W interrupted to say the cat was in the room, but he wasnt sure whether 
it was he or the cat who had knocked the glass. AXA asked him to provide the quote 
anyway.
After sending the repair quote to AXA, Mr W called to follow up on progress of his claim. 
AXA told Mr W his claim was covered and it would be paying the full repair cost of £469. It 
asked for his bank details to make the payment.
Around two weeks later Mr W called AXA again to chase payment. At this point AXA said it 
had reviewed his claim and declined it because damage caused by pets wasnt covered 
under his policy.
Mr W complained to AXA because hed already paid for a new laptop.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think it wasnt clear how the glass had fallen 
onto Mr Ws laptop but, as AXA accepted the claim initially, he thought it was fair for it to pay 
for the repair. Our investigator also said that AXA should pay £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
AXA didnt agree. It confirmed that damage caused by pets wasnt covered under the policy 
and it didnt think it should have to pay for the repairs. Although AXA did agree it had 
provided incorrect information to Mr W and that compensation was warranted.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Theres no dispute about the actual damage to the laptop or the cost of repair. Nor is there 
any dispute that AXA told Mr W his claim was accepted but later declined it. There are two 
key points here:
whether the damage was caused by an insured event, and
whether AXA should pay for the repair cost.
The event
In his first call to AXA, Mr W said a cat knocked the glass off a shelf onto his laptop. In the 
follow up call just minutes later, he told AXA that it couldve been he who had knocked the 
glass when getting off his bed. Ive listened to both calls and its not clear which version of 
events is correct. So Ive looked at what is reasonable in the circumstances.
When Mr W first reported the damage, there was a little hesitation before he said a cat 
knocked the glass over. In the follow up call AXA made to him just minutes later, it said the 
damage wasnt covered because it was caused by a pet. Mr W quickly interrupted AXA to 
say, without any hesitation, that he wasnt sure whether he or the cat caused the damage. 
This version of events has been consistent throughout the claim since that second call.
Because the first account of events is often the most accurate, I can understand why AXA 
decided to decline the claim. However, having listened to the calls, I think theres a greater 
degree of uncertainty in Mr Ws first call compared to his second. He pauses before saying 
the cat knocked the glass down, whereas theres no pause with the second call. Apart from 
that first call, Mr W has consistently said hes not sure whether he knocked the glass or 
whether it was the cat. The way he describes the incident, it appears that he bumped the 
bed and shelf, the cat was there, but he doesnt know whether it was his action or the cat 
jumping down which caused the glass to fall. Mr W isnt sure, and I dont think thats an 
unreasonable thing for him to say.
So, that leaves AXA with the responsibility to show that an exclusion applies, and I dont 
think it has here. Its possible the cat caused the damage but its just as possible that Mr W 
caused the damage. With such uncertainty, I dont think its fair to say AXA has proven that 
the exclusion clause applies, so I dont think it was fair to decline the claim.
Claim payment
AXA told Mr W it had accepted his claim and it would pay his repair costs of £469. At this 
point, Mr W had a choice of whether to get the laptop repaired or whether to use the money 
towards a new laptop, paying the difference himself. He chose to buy a new laptop, costing 
around £1000 (rounded for ease). AXA then declined the claim. 
Ive looked at whether AXAs change of mind caused Mr W any financial loss. I think it did.
If AXA had decided the laptop damage wasnt an insured event and declined the claim from 
the outset, Mr W wouldve needed to pay the repair cost of £469 himself. AXA wouldve paid 
nothing. Its less likely that he wouldve gone on to buy a new laptop, knowing that he was 
paying the full amount. 
If AXA had accepted the claim and kept to that decision, Mr W wouldve used the money 
towards a new laptop costing £1000. So Mr W wouldve paid around £500.
So, in these two scenarios, a clear and consistent decision from AXA wouldve meant that 
the cost to Mr W of the insured event would be £500, give or take a few pounds.
The situation here is that AXA accepted Mr Ws claim and he acted on that decision, 
spending £1000 on a new laptop fully expecting to get £469 back. So when AXA declined the claim, Mr W was left with the full cost of a new laptop, which he said he wouldnt 
otherwise have bought. So instead of the insured event costing him £500, it cost him £1000. 
Based on my assessment of the possible outcomes, I think its fair to attribute the additional 
cost of £469 incurred by Mr W to AXAs change of decision. For that reason, and because of 
the overall lack of clarity about whether the event was covered, I think its fair for AXA to pay 
Mr W £469 as it had previously agreed to do.
While that puts Mr W back into the position he wouldve been in had AXA made a clear and 
consistent decision from the start, it doesnt go far enough to address the upset and 
inconvenience this matter mustve caused him. I appreciate that Mr W now has a new laptop 
but his decision to buy one was based on AXAs response to his claim. I think compensation 
of £150 in recognition of the way AXA handled his claim is warranted for the following 
reasons:
AXA twice told Mr W his claim was accepted.
AXA was clear in its communication to Mr W that he would receive the payment, 
even going as far as to obtain his bank details for the transfer.
AXA failed to tell Mr W it had declined the claim until he chased payment.
The upset caused when Mr W thought he wasnt going to get anything back from 
AXA, meaning he had incurred a cost of twice what he expected to.
In summary, I dont think AXA has shown that an exclusion applies to Mr Ws claim and I 
think its decision to decline the claim, after twice saying it was covered, caused unnecessary 
trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must: 
pay Mr W £469 which is the cost of the repair it agreed to cover which he used 
towards a new laptop, and 
pay him £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset it caused by giving him incorrect 
information and failing to keep him updated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman