DRN-3225284
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc delayed the payment of a bonds maturity value. 
What happened
Mr L contacted Clydesdale to arrange for the maturity value of a bond hed held with it to be 
transferred to a new bond with another provider. He was told that a cheque would be sent to 
him, but this wasnt actioned, and he had to chase up the matter. He was later disappointed 
to find that no record had been made of the arrangement, so he had to spend time speaking 
to various staff members to get things sorted out. 
Mr L complained to Clydesdale about what had happened, and it accepted it had acted 
incorrectly. It offered to arrange a payment of interest to reflect that Mr L wouldve been able 
to reinvest sooner if a cheque had been arranged as agreed in his initial call. Clydesdale 
also offered to pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr L didnt think the offer was enough and felt that the payment of interest wasnt based on 
the correct date, so he referred the complaint to this service. An investigator considered the 
matter but concluded that Clydesdales offer was reasonable. Mr L felt that the interest 
shouldve been based upon a date May 2020, but the investigator noted that records showed 
he hadnt contacted Clydesdale until June 2020, so its use of 15 June 2020 as the date from 
which to calculate the interest was fair. The investigator also felt the £100 offered for distress 
and inconvenience was reasonable in the circumstances. 
However, settlement wasnt then made, so Mr L contacted this service again. A second 
investigator looked into the matter and agreed that Clydesdale had used the correct date to 
calculate the payment of interest. But she felt that as it hadnt carried out the settlement as 
promised it should ensure that this was now done and also pay Mr L a further £100. 
Clydesdale agreed with this, but Mr L ultimately remained unhappy, so the matters been 
referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr Ls desire to have this matter reviewed is, in part at least, driven by related 
concerns with the bond into which the money was transferred. Although thats to do with 
another business, the two are related, so I can see why Mr Ls linked the two. However, to 
be clear, my findings here relate only to the actions of Clydesdale and the delay in it paying 
proceeds to Mr L.
Turning to the issue of the delay, it seems acknowledged by Clydesdale that it didnt do what 
it initially said it would  that is, to send him a cheque when he contacted it to make a 
request for payment. As noted, Clydesdale has offered to put Mr L in the position he would 
be in if it had sent the cheque when requested and hed then been able to invest in the new 
bond sooner. 
Mr L has said that he thinks the appropriate date to use to calculate interest should be in 
May, as that is when he first contacted Clydesdale. But the records dont show that. They 
show that his first call to Clydesdale was in June 2020. Mr L had contacted the other 
business to open the new bond in May 2020, but Im satisfied that he didnt ask Clydesdale 
for the money to be transferred until June 2020. As such I think its reasonable that 
Clydesdales offer puts Mr L is put in the position hed be in if hed been able to pay the 
money into the new bond on 15 June 2020. That would appear to be consistent with the 
timings of him approaching Clydesdale. Ive seen that a payment of interest of £253.95 has 
been added to the new bond account  an arrangement facilitated by way of the relationship 
between the two businesses. 
I also agree that Clydesdales failure to instigate the resolution initially will have caused Mr L 
additional distress and inconvenience, so Im satisfied that a total amount of £200 to 
compensate for both the initial delay and subsequent delay in instigating the resolution 
should also be paid to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that the offer made to Mr L by Clydesdale Bank 
Plc as set out above is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman