DRN-3972727
The complaint
Mr S complains about the amount Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid for his car 
following a claim on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was stolen so he claimed on his policy with Advantage. Advantage reviewed the 
claim and accepted it. To value Mr Ss car Advantage ultimately looked at two valuation 
guides and offered him the highest of the two guides which was £14,670. As Mr Ss car had 
been a previous total loss, Advantage deducted 20% from this amount to reach a market 
value of £11,736. 
Mr S didnt think this was enough and complained, he said hed recently spent money on 
replacing the brake pads, discs and callipers and had also put new tyres on the car. 
Because of this Mr S said to buy a similar replacement would cost around £17,000. 
Advantage reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. It maintained its position that the 
valuation was fair as it based the valuation on the higher of the two guides used. Mr S didnt 
agree and referred his complaint here. He said he accepted the deduction for his car being a 
previous total loss but said it would cost over £17,000 to buy a like for like replacement. He 
also said Advantage had increased its initial valuation because he complained which he said 
showed Advantage was trying to pay him less than it should. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He looked at the 
four valuation guides we use and found one didnt produce a value for Mr Ss car. Another 
guide was significantly out of line and so he discounted it. And because Advantages offer 
was the higher of the two remaining guides, he thought it was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree, he said he was unable to buy a like for like car for the amount Advantage 
had offered and so didnt think it was a fair market value. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy say that if Advantage deems his car a total loss, it 
will pay him the market value. It defines market value as the cost of replacing your Car in 
the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, 
model, age and condition.  
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices. 
When Advantage valued Mr Ss car it used two motor valuation guides, these produced 
values of £13,167 and £14,760. As Advantage only used two valuation guides, Ive also 
looked at the other two we use. One was unable to produce a valuation for Mr Ss car and 
the other valued it at £20,976. 
I understand from Mr S that hes said it would cost over £17,000 to replace his car with a like 
for like, but hes not provided anything other than his comments to support this. As one 
valuation guide gave a value of almost £21,000, which is significantly out of line with the 
others, Ive discounted it as an outlier and so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to include it. 
When doing this and taking into account Advantage has used the higher value of the two 
guides, Im satisfied its reached and fair a reasonable valuation which is in line with the 
policy terms. 
Once Advantage reached its valuation, it then deducted 20% as Mr Ss car was a previous 
total loss. This gave a final market value of £11,736, which it paid to Mr S subject to any 
applicable policy excess. Mr S has said he doesnt dispute the deduction for being a 
previous total loss and therefore I see no reason to make a finding on it in this decision. As 
Im satisfied Advantage has reached a fair and reasonable valuation, Im not going to tell it to 
pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman