DRN-2928555
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (formerly Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc) 
(Mitsubishi) irresponsibly granted her a fixed loan agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mrs B acquired a used car financed by a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Mitsubishi. Mrs B paid a £500 deposit and was required to make 60 monthly repayments of 
around £415. The total repayable under the agreement was just under £23,400.
Mrs B says that Mitsubishi didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Mitsubishi didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included gathering information about Mrs Bs 
employment and residential status and carrying out a credit check. It says that the credit 
check didnt raised concerns and Mrs B had low indebtedness. 
Mrs B says she was pressured into signing the agreement and when she contacted 
Mitsubishi the week after entering the agreement it didnt assist her. She said she wasnt told 
the rate of interest on the agreement and her income was incorrectly recorded. She has 
explained a family member took over the payments as she couldnt afford them.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mitsubishi didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs B didnt agree and said she had never earned £24,000 a year as recorded on her 
agreement and her net monthly income was around £1,200. She said while the interest rate 
was recorded on the agreement this wasnt pointed out to her and she thought it was a 0% 
interest rate based on the advertisement. Mrs B said she contacted Mitsubishi on several 
occasions, but it didnt assist her. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mitsubishi will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mrs Bs income on her application was declared as £24,000 a year and she was recorded as 
being an assistant teacher. Although this amount wasnt verified through bank statements or 
payslips, Mitsubishi has said this was validated against information from credit reference 
agencies. Mrs B has said this income figure was higher than the amount she earned and 
that she didnt provide this figure. However, the information was recorded at the time of the 
application and was included in both the adequate explanation documents and the 
agreement. Mrs B didnt raise any concerns at the time. Having considered the amount 
included and the role Mrs B was recorded to have I do not think it unreasonable that this 
amount was accepted as her income figure. Mitsubishi has also said the figure was validated 
with credit reference information. Therefore, on balance, I do not think the figure should have 
raised concerns and as this was validated I do not find I can say that further checks were 
required or that it was unreasonable that this amount was relied on in the affordability 
assessment. Based on an annual income of £24,000, Mrs Bs monthly income was recorded 
as around £1,650.
Mitsubishi didnt ask Mrs B about her expenditure. Considering the income figure used, the 
agreement accounted for around a quarter of Mrs Bs monthly income and the term was for 
60 months and so I think it particularly important that further information was gathered to 
ensure the agreement would be sustainably affordable over the term. Mitsubishi did 
complete a credit check and based on the information gathered I agree this didnt raise 
concerns. But the credit check wont have indicated what Mrs Bs regular living expenses 
were. Without knowing what Mrs Bs regular committed expenditure was Mitsubishi wouldnt 
have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It 
therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Mitsubishi to have found out more about Mrs Bs 
committed expenditure, such as their living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Mitsubishi 
would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mrs Bs bank 
statements and other information provided as to what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Mitsubishi carried out a credit check and while I do not have the full details, Mrs B provided a 
recent credit report and based on the information I have seen I find the inclusion of around 
£240 for credit commitments reasonable. Additional to this Mrs Bs monthly mortgage 
payment was recorded as £446 and Mitsubishi included half of this amount in its assessment 
based on Mrs B saying she was married. Again, I find this reasonable. This left just under 
£1,200. 
Mrs B has said she was paying around £500 for food and toiletries each month, £200 for gas 
and electricity (meter payments and Mrs B has said how these appear on her statements) 
£50 for petrol, £40 for insurance and phone, and £130 for other costs. This gives a total of 
£920. She didnt mention payments towards the mortgage. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mrs B was paying for food, fuel, utilities and other living costs. It doesnt show her 
paying towards a mortgage. Based on the bank statements Mrs B was paying on average 
around £500 a month towards her committed living expenditure. Taking these figures into 
account, and accepting the income figure of around £1,650 was reasonable to be relied on, 
the information provided through the different sources do not show that the agreement was 
unaffordable to Mrs B. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Mitsubishi acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
Mrs B has also said that she was pressured into the agreement. She has said that because 
she couldnt afford the repayments they were transferred to a family member. I can see from 
the contact notes provided that Mrs B asked for a mandate for the family member a couple 
of weeks after entering the agreement. At this point there is no record of her raising 
concerns about the affordability of the agreement. This suggests that Mrs B had entered into 
the agreement with the intention of passing the payments to the family member in due 
course. In July 2018, contact is made with Mrs B and she says the payment details are the family members and that she wasnt aware of any problems with the repayments. At this 
point she says that she wouldnt be able to afford the repayments. This supports Mrs B 
entering into the agreement believing it was affordable for the family member and it being 
the intention that they make the repayments. 
In September 2018, the family member said Mrs B had felt pressured into the agreement 
due to the time they had travelled to the retailer and because she had wanted to help the 
family member who had a previous car stolen and written off. I note the comments about 
Mrs B being in tears at the retailer and I am sorry this caused her so much distress. 
Unfortunately, I have nothing to confirm the situation at the retailer and there is no mention 
of this aspect of her complaint in the correspondence with the retailer in 2018. Mrs B also 
didnt mention any issues when she contacted Mitsubishi about the change in mandate form 
which makes it more difficult to confirm the situation at the time. 
Having considered the information about how the agreement was taken out, I think on 
balance that Mrs B entered the agreement because she wanted to help the family member. 
However, I do not find I have enough to say that the retailer was aware that the payments 
wouldnt be made by Mrs B over the term and so I think it reasonable the affordability 
assessment took place on Mrs Bs details and the agreement was set up in her name.
Mrs B said she thought the agreement would be 0% interest. I note her comments about 
both her and the family member having additional educational needs which may have had 
an impact. However, the additional needs werent noted until the complaint was raised, and I 
have nothing to suggest that the retailer was aware of this at the time. The agreement clearly 
states the rate of interest being applied and the financial information on the front page shows 
the charge for credit and the payment amounts needed. Therefore, without further evidence I 
do not find I can say that Mrs B was provided with incorrect information and instead I find 
she was given the information needed to be aware of the interest rate and the costs of the 
repayments. 
Overall, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that Mrs B was pressured into the 
agreement by the dealer. As I also do not find I can say that Mitsubishi should have realised 
the agreement was unaffordable, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman