DRN-3135500
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) unfairly registered a default against Mr 
Bs credit file.
What happened
Mr B says he held a credit card account with Lloyds and was making his due payments by 
sending a cheque each month. Mr B says Lloyds informed him his account had been sent to 
a debt collection agency and a default had been registered against his credit file. Mr B says 
he hadnt received any correspondence from Lloyds to suggest he was behind in his monthly 
payments just a letter to say his credit card account had been closed and passed to a debt 
collection agency (DCA). Mr B says he and his wife had been working long hours and hadnt 
the time to check their statements and feel its unfair a default has been registered on Mr Bs 
credit file at a time he is now seeking employment. Mr B says he has now agreed a payment 
plan with the DCA, but wants Lloyds to remove the default registered against him, because it 
was no fault of his they took too long to present the cheques he had sent them, and doesnt 
recall receiving any letters from Lloyds. 
Lloyds says while they did receive some payments by way of cheque from Mr B these 
werent properly completed by him and were returned. In addition, Lloyds say these cheques 
wouldnt have been sufficient anyhow to meet the amount, his credit card account was in 
arrears. Lloyds say they issued several letters to Mr B informing him of the position of his 
credit card account and the consequences of not meeting his obligations. Lloyds says when 
writing to Mr B they also offered to provide assistance, if he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. Lloyds say they issued SMS messages alongside these letters informing him and 
also correctly issued their notice of default. Lloyds says Mr B never contacted them to 
discuss his account issues apart from receiving a letter in February 2020 when he 
apologised for an unpaid direct debit on his credit card account. Lloyds say they have acted 
correctly here. 
Mrs B and Mr B werent happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Lloyds had acted reasonably when passing the debt to a DCA, as Mr B 
hadnt contacted them to discuss his finances and it was his responsibility to ensure his 
monthly payments were up to date. The investigator pointed out that while Lloyds need to 
present any cheques Mr B sent them in a timely manner, the cheques they received by Mr B 
were incorrectly completed and therefore they acted fairly by not accepting them. The 
investigator felt Lloyds had carried out the correct procedures when issuing the letters and 
notice of default to Mr B and ultimately registering the default against his credit file.
Mrs B and Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr B to have been informed his credit card 
account had been placed with a DCA and his credit file marked with a default, when he 
believed he had been making the required monthly payments to his credit card account, by 
cheque. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds acted fairly when they issued a default 
notice to Mr B, passed his credit card account to a DCA and registered a default against his 
credit file.
Mr Bs complaint centres around two main themes, firstly he never received any 
communication from Lloyds about his credit card account being in difficulties and also he 
had sent them cheques each month, but Lloyds failed to bank them on time, which caused 
the arrears. Mr B maintains the only communication he received from Lloyds was when he 
was told they had passed his credit card account to a DCA and placed a default on his credit 
file. 
Mr B maintains he and his wife had been working extremely long hours and hadnt always 
the time to check his credit card account. While I can understand that must have been a 
challenging time for them both, its fair to say it still remains Mr Bs responsibility to regularly 
check his financial position including any correspondence or bank/credit card statements 
that are sent to him. Mr B says he didnt receive the letters from Lloyds but this service has 
been provided with copies of letters dated, 24 January 2020, 12 February 2020, 27 February 
2020  stating he needed to take action to prevent his credit file being impacted and that he 
was in arrears and he should make contact if he required assistance. In addition, default 
notices were sent on 28 March 2020 and 29 April 2020 with a final demand for payment on 
28 May 2020. The file notes Lloyds provided also show regular text messages about Mr Bs 
account status and statement availability, were also sent to the mobile number Lloyds had 
on file. 
From the information I have seen these letters were sent to the correct address for Mr B and 
its also fair to say at the same time he would have had access to his usual monthly credit 
card statement, which again explains the need to make his monthly minimum payments due. 
So even though Mr B says he never received the letters, given he attempted to make some 
payments by way of cheque I can only conclude he must have been aware he needed to 
make these payments each month and if he wasnt sure what that amount might be, it was 
his responsibility to contact Lloyds to find that out. 
The other issue here is Mr B says he sent cheques to Lloyds but they took too long to 
present them to his bank, but I cant see Mr B has provided this service with any evidence to 
show when the cheque(s) he refers to were posted. What is important here, is from the 
information provided to this service the only cheques I can see, sent to Lloyds were either 
unsigned, post-dated and/or  incorrectly amended. I am satisfied these were correctly 
refused by Lloyds as they were unable to present them to his bank. What is important here 
is, those cheques received by Lloyds on 26 February for £140 and 10th March 2020 for 
£200, werent in any event sufficient to meet the minimum monthly payments required to 
bring the credit card account arrears back up to date. 
So with that in mind, even if the cheques Mr B sent had been correctly completed by him 
and presented in a timely manner, he would still have been in arrears and Lloyds would have 
been entitled to issue a default notice and register a default of the debt with a credit reference agency, as they are obliged to. 
I have considered if Covid may have contributed to any of the issues raised in Mrs B and Mr 
Bs complaint, but here its fair to say the arrears began prior to the lockdown that caused 
issues for both business and customer alike. Its also reasonable to say that Mr B did know 
he needed to make monthly payments on time and even if he hadnt received some of the 
letters he refers to, there were others ways for him to have established what he owed and 
needed to pay each month  but I cant see he did. 
Mr B was also sent messages by text/SMS from Lloyds to alert him that his statements were 
ready to view. In addition, its likely Mr B would have received statements from his own bank, 
to show him if the cheques hed sent had been debited to his bank account or not. So, given 
this and all the other information I have seen, I cant say that Mr B wouldnt have been aware 
of what he owed or how much he needed to pay each month. I am sorry to learn that Mr B 
finds himself out of work and he is concerned any mark on his credit file wouldnt help that, 
but here I cant say that Lloyds have done anything wrong, when they registered the default 
on his credit file for the reasons I have already given. 
While Mrs B and Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Lloyds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman