DRN-1643500
The complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt close her Help to Buy 
(HTB) ISA when she removed the funds from it, leaving her unable to claim the government 
bonus from an account with another provider. 
What happened
Miss W had a HTB ISA account with Halifax. She says that she stopped banking with them 
entirely in early 2017 and transferred her banking to another provider. Miss W believed shed 
closed all of her accounts with Halifax, including the HTB ISA so, she opened a new HTB 
ISA with a different provider. 
In September 2019, Miss W went through the process to claim the government bonus on her 
new HTB ISA account but was prevented from doing so due to the Halifax HTB ISA being 
open. Miss W says she received no correspondence about the Halifax account and didnt 
know it remained open. Miss W thinks Halifax should have closed this account when she 
withdrew her funds from it. Because they didnt, they should pay her the government bonus 
that shes unable to claim on her other account. 
Halifax say that the HTB ISA Miss W held with it must be closed in branch. Because Miss W 
only transferred funds out of the account and didnt close it, they werent wrong in leaving it 
open. They say they sent yearly statements to Miss W for the account. Halifax told Miss W 
there was nothing more they could do in relation to her government bonus. 
Unhappy with this, Miss W brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things, but they didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong in leaving the account open. 
Miss W has asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss W has found herself in a position where shes lost out on a significant 
sum of money from the government bonus. What I must decide is whether Halifax have done 
anything wrong in the administration of her HTB ISA account with them and are therefore 
responsible for this loss. 
Miss W has said that she thought the HTB ISA with Halifax had been closed when she 
switched her banking to another provider in July 2017. I can see from the statements of Miss 
Ws account that she transferred £5.07 out of the HTB ISA account in October 2017 to bring 
the balance to zero, so I think that she knew that the account switch in July didnt close the 
HTB ISA account with Halifax. 
Miss W feels that Halifax should have closed her account once the balance was zero. 
Halifax have said that Miss W would have needed to visit a branch to close her HTB ISA. 
Halifax have provided screen shots from their website and account terms and conditions 
showing that consumers are informed that the account can only be closed in branch. I dont 
think the terms and conditions that Ive seen from 2017 make it clear that the HTB ISA 
account can only be closed in a branch.  
Having said that, reducing an account balance to zero doesnt usually mean that account will 
be automatically closed. I think its reasonable for Halifax to require some sort of positive 
action from a consumer to close their account, whether thats in branch or by some other 
method. 
HTB ISA accounts have strict rules around when they can be opened, and how they need to 
be closed, in order for bonuses to be paid. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to 
put measures in place to ensure they close accounts within these rules. Therefore, I dont 
think it was wrong of Halifax to leave the account open, even once the balance was reduced 
to zero.
Miss W has said that she didnt receive any statements for the account, so she didnt know it 
remained open. Halifax have provided screen shots of their systems showing that 
statements for Miss Ws HTB ISA were generated on 30 Aug 2017 and 2018, and again on 
13 September 2019 when the account was closed. I dont doubt that Miss W didnt receive 
these, but Im persuaded that Halifax issued them and they are correctly addressed, so they 
cant be held responsible for them not having been delivered. 
I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in leaving Miss Ws account open in the absence of 
any instruction from Miss W to close it. Halifax issued regular statements to Miss W to allow 
her to manage her accounts. So, its unfortunate that Miss W finds herself unable to claim 
the government bonus, but I find that Halifax isnt responsible for this loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman