DRN-3915698
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs D complain that Rock Insurance Services Limited (Rock) failed to renew their 
excess waiver insurance policy and didnt respond when they tried to make a claim. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs D had a car hire excess waiver insurance policy arranged through Rock, who 
are an insurance broker.
They bought the policy alongside a travel insurance policy and both started in December 
2020. 
In December 2021 their travel insurance renewed, but the excess waiver insurance did not.
In January 2022 Mr B and Mrs D were involved in an accident while driving a hire car. They 
paid the hire car company £804.12 for the excess. They contacted Rock and made a claim. 
Rock told them that their policy hadnt renewed in December 2021 due to a technical issue 
with its system.
Rock asked for details about Mr B and Mrs Ds claim and said it would discuss the matter 
further. Ultimately, Rock didnt provide any further information to Mr B or Mrs D and several 
months passed without Rock contacting them.
As they remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to this service. They ask for the 
refund of their excess. They also ask for compensation for the time they have spent chasing 
Rock.
Our investigator looked into their complaint. Rock didnt respond to his requests for 
information, so our investigator issued a view based on the information he had. He said he 
thought Rock should refund the amount theyd paid for the excess, plus £100 compensation 
for Mr B and Mrs Ds time spent chasing it for progress during the claim. 
Mr B and Mrs D agreed with the view, but Rock didnt respond. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the file that Rock still hasnt replied to our investigators questions. 
So, Ive made this decision using the information I have available, which has been mainly 
provided by Mr B and Mrs D and includes copies of information sent by Rock about their 
policy and the claim they tried to make.
I can see that Rock acknowledged that the excess waiver policy didnt renew due to a 
system problem. 
Mr B and Mrs D have confirmed that their travel policy did renew and they expected both 
policies to have done so at the same time. They have said Rock confirmed both were set to 
automatically renew.
I can perhaps say that I think Mr B and Mrs D should have checked that their policy had 
actually renewed before they hired the car, but I can follow their logic that theyd bought both 
policies at the same time from Rock and expected them to automatically renew, and their 
travel policy had done so.
In the absence of further information from Rock, I think its fair to say that Rock failed to 
renew the excess waiver policy, so Mr B and Mrs D werent able to make a claim on it. I 
dont think thats good service from Rock, and it follows that I think Rock should therefore 
refund the amount Mr B and Mrs D paid, which is £804.12.
Its also clear that Rocks service during the claim has been very poor, which I can see has 
meant Mr B and Mrs D have spent a significant amount of time chasing it for progress under 
the claim. I have thought about the amount of compensation thats suitable, and I think £100 
is in line with this services guidelines.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Rock 
Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr B and Mrs D:
£804.12 to refund the hire car excess paid by them.
£100 for their inconvenience caused by its poor claims service.
Rock Insurance Services Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr B and Mrs D accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman