DRN-2562752
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Ms J says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms J took out on a store card account in January 2003. 
It was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Ms J says AXA mis-sold the policy to her. She says she has no recollection of how PPI was 
sold with her card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint and Ill explain why.
I think AXA made Ms J aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from 
the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI. This separate section has 
been signed by Ms J. She has then signed the application form to say she consented to the 
information contained in it. So, I think this reflected what she wanted. Had Ms J not wanted the 
PPI she could have completed the application and not signed in the separate box for PPI.
So, on balance, I think Ms J was aware the policy was optional, and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Ms J completing an application in a store. So, because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So, AXA didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Ms J enough information to 
make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So, I need to consider if Ms J would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Ms J has told us she would have received sick pay but is unsure how much. She has been 
able to find out who her employer was at the time but doesnt recollect too much more than 
this. This is completely understandable due to the amount of years that have since passed. 
The policy would have paid out in addition to the sick pay Ms J would have received. So, 
based on what I do know, I think the PPI could have been useful to her in that her store card 
payments would be met. I also couldnt see any significant or limiting terms that would have 
affected Ms Js decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Ms Js decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all of Ms Js comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman