DRN-4123738
The complaint
Mr B says after his commercial car insurance policy with Wakam was cancelled, its advisor 
told him it was still in place, leading to financial loss for him.
What happened
When Mr B made a windscreen claim on 4 October 2022, his policy was cancelled in error 
by Wakam and it charged him an £85 cancellation fee. Mr B queried it and he says an 
advisor told him the policy would be in place for another 24 hours. Mr B called Wakam again 
later that day. He says another advisor said the cancellation was being investigated and 
nothing could be done to resolve the issue until the next day, when hed be contacted at 
9am. Mr B said he had to go to work at 7am or hed lose his job. 
The next morning, Mr B was in his car when he was stopped for driving without insurance. 
His car was seized, and the police told him hed need new insurance in order to get it back. 
Wakam set up a new policy for Mr B later that day and it paid the £246 deposit, given its 
error. But Mr B had to pay £150 to get the car back, plus £374 for a short-term insurance 
policy. He said hed get six points on his licence. Wakam said its advisors had told Mr B his 
policy ended on 4 October 2022, so he shouldnt have been driving the next day uninsured.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He agreed that Mr B wasnt told by 
Wakams advisors on 4 October 2022 that he had 24 hours cover left on the policy. Given its 
error, he thought Wakam should refund the cancellation charge, remove any record of the 
cancellation, and provide a letter to Mr B stating that the policy had been cancelled in error. 
He also said it should pay him £150 for distress and inconvenience - plus the difference in 
premium between the short-term policy and Wakams new policy. He didnt think Mr B knew 
when he bought that policy that Wakams new policy would be in place the same day.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, in which I said Id listened to the call recordings from 4 October 2022, 
which showed Mr B was told several times that the policy ended at 11.59pm that day. I noted 
that Mr B asked if he could drive the car to work the next day and the advisor said he 
couldnt. Mr B also asked if Wakam could give him cover for 24 hours, but the advisor said 
there was no way around the cancellation until it was investigated further the next day.   
I said that in my opinion, as Wakams advisors had made it very clear to Mr B that his 
insurance cover ended on 4 October 2022, it was fair for it to say that he shouldnt have 
been driving his car on 5 October 2022. I said had  Mr B not driven the car without insurance 
in place, he wouldnt have been stopped by the police, his car wouldnt have been seized 
and he wouldnt have had to pay for getting it back. I said as I didnt think Wakam was to 
blame for the events on 5 October 2022 it shouldnt have to  pay any of the costs incurred.
I noted that Wakam had called Mr B at 10am on 5 October 2022 (which would have been 
after he left for work in the uninsured car) and that he spoke to one of its managers later that 
morning, when a new policy with Wakam was set up (starting at 12.17pm).
I also noted that the short-term policy didnt take effect until 6 October 2022 at 1pm, more 
than 24 hours after Wakams new policy was in place. I said it wasnt clear why Mr B didnt 
call the broker to stop that policy being set up as soon as he got new cover from Wakam. I 
also said there would have been no reason for Mr B to have had to consider setting up a 
short-term policy had he not driven his car after Wakam told him his policy was cancelled. 
I said I could see why Mr B was distressed about the cancellation. As hed done nothing 
wrong, he was upset and confused by it. And even if he hadnt driven uninsured, hed still 
have been inconvenienced by Wakams error. Consequently I thought it should pay him 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Wakams manager told Mr B on 5 October 2022 that hed email Mr B a letter for the police 
stating that the policy was cancelled in error. I said that should assist him in avoiding points 
on his licence (although if he hadnt driven uninsured, he wouldnt have faced that penalty). I 
said the letter would also help Mr B when buying future insurance. And I said I thought 
providing the letter, refunding the cancellation charge and removing any record of the 
cancellation would put Mr B back in the position he was in before Wakams error. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Wakam accepted them. Mr B said 
hed been told by Wakam that he could drive from 9am on 5 October 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear from the call recordings that Wakams advisors told Mr B he couldnt drive 
the car after 11.59pm on 4 October 2022. Mr Bs further comment conflicts with the 
evidence, so it doesnt affect the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Wakam to refund the 
cancellation charge, remove any record of the cancellation, provide a letter to Mr B to say 
the policy was cancelled in error and pay him £150 for distress ad inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman