DRN-3079388
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the lack of options and management of a child trust fund (CTF) by 
The Share Centre Limited (TSC).
Mr M is represented by Mrs M, but for simplicity I shall refer only to Mr M in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. In summary Mr M opened a CTF 
for his son in 2005. This fund was a non-stakeholder CTF meaning that Mr M, as the 
registered contact, was in control of choosing, buying and selling investments in the fund. He 
was able to invest in any permitted CTF investment held on TSCs platform.
Mr M initially invested into the managed funds option provided by TSC but is unhappy 
because he says TSC withdrew the option of managed funds. Hes also unhappy because 
he wasnt provided any alternative investment options or any information or options about 
transferring the trust fund or ways in which he could manage the money safely.
 
Mr M says his options were then to invest the money into the stock market or place the 
money into a low interest account. Mr M decided to invest the money into the stock market. 
And due to the volatility in the market has now lost out on the initial investment made for his 
son. Accordingly Mr M would like TSC to compensate him for the lack of information and 
options as well as the losses the CTF has incurred.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think TSC had acted unfairly. Mr M was 
unhappy with the investigators view. In summary he said he never intended to invest in high 
risk personally managed type funds. He said that he had not asked for advice but for 
information relating to the product and none, or very little was given. He said too that the 
investigator made no mention of the FCA regulations and didnt question the terms and 
conditions of TSC. As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M opened the CTF to help with his sons future and why he is 
disappointed with its performance. Nevertheless the Terms of Business that Mr M 
agreed to made clear that TSC act on an execution only basis. 
This means it doesnt provide any advice with regard to the suitability of an 
investment. Mr M has said TSC contravened this, but Ive not seen any evidence to 
persuade me that TSC did provide advice and because of this I cant say it has acted 
outside its regulatory permission. 
Mr M says that his complaint is about lack of information, but TSC werent able to tell 
him about ways in which he could manage the money safely. This would then be 
advice. The Terms of Business document was periodically updated but always made 
it clear that all transactions are carried out on an execution only basis.
Mr M says that he received leaflets with information although the print was small and 
the language technically difficult. He feels that providing leaflets is negligent as those 
receiving them might not understand the content. I do understand his point, but I 
dont find that TSC were at fault here. If Mr M wanted further detail about the various 
funds, he could have asked.
However TSC had a regulatory duty to ensure that any information it provided was 
clear, fair and not misleading. I havent seen any information TSC provided that 
contravened this. It seems that Mr M feels more information should have been given, 
but there is no evidence that information was requested and wasnt provided.
Mr M says that he wasnt provided with information about the risks but the fund terms 
and conditions stated You acknowledge that, unless you have sought specific advice 
from TSC's Advice Service and subject to the rules of the Inland Revenue, TSC is 
not responsible for advising you as to the suitability of transactions and all 
transactions are otherwise effected on an execution-only basis. You acknowledge 
that the price and value of stock market investments and the income from them can 
go down as well as up and investors may get back less than their original investment. 
TSC does not accept liability for any fall in value in the customer's investments or the 
ongoing suitability of investments. The levels and bases of taxation may also change. 
TSC accepts no liability for movements in share prices. No advice is given on the 
taxation or legal implications for you in entering into this Agreement or in receiving 
TSC's services.
Additionally the annual statements had a reminder that share prices may go down as 
well as up. Im satisfied that this was clear.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M felt he was limited in his options it was open to him to speak 
with TSC at any point. Had this been done TSC would have been able to provide 
details about other products that were available. It was Mr Ms decision to invest the 
fund money into the stock market. I cant see that any advice had been provided by 
TSC to do this. 
Im satisfied too that TSC didnt trade investments on behalf of Mr Ms son. Rather Mr 
M, as the registered contact, had control of selecting, buying and selling. I note that 
he sold the managed funds which were invested in Jupiter Global in 2009. As TSC 
only offer an execution service Im satisfied it acted on this instruction to sell the 
funds. Based on the information available to me, I cant see that Jupiter was 
withdrawn, TSC has provided information to show it was changed in 2015, but at this 
point there wasnt any investment within this fund. Accordingly I find TSC acted 
reasonably here on the instruction of the registered contact, Mr M, to sell the 
investments in this fund.
I do appreciate Mr M felt he had limited options. However if he felt that investing in 
the stock market was too high of a risk for the CTF he did have the option of a low 
interest account. As Mr M didnt speak with TSC about this, I cant say it did anything 
wrong in providing the information and service that it did. I understand that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision but taking into account all of the 
above Im satisfied TSC acted within the terms and conditions of the CTF. Whilst The Share 
Centre Limited couldnt provide advice, it provided sufficient information.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman