DRN-2858641
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a card protection plan he took out alongside his National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) credit card. He complained that the plan had been 
mis-sold and is unhappy that NatWest only refunded the premiums he paid up to 2005 when 
he could have participated in a, now closed, redress scheme. He says he was never made 
aware of the redress scheme. In addition, he thought the refund offered for the period up to 
2005 was less than hed paid in premiums. 
What happened
In 1997 Mr S took out a credit card with NatWest. He took a card protection plan alongside 
and premiums were paid until 23 June 2012, although Mr S has said he believed he had 
cancelled the plan in 2008/9.
In mid-2019 Mr S made a complaint about the sale of the card protection plan to NatWest. It 
partially upheld the complaint. It offered Mr S a refund of all premiums paid prior to 
14 January 2005 plus 8% interest (less income tax on the interest). However, premiums paid 
after 14 January 2005 were covered by a Financial Conduct Authority redress scheme open 
to policyholders until August 2014. As Mr S hadnt applied to the scheme at the appropriate 
time, NatWest considered he was too late for that part of his complaint to be considered.
Mr S didnt accept the offer made by NatWest as he was unhappy it had capped the refund 
to the date of the redress scheme. He also thought the refund that was offered was not 
enough. He referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She concluded that we could only 
consider part of it. She thought Mr S had referred his complaint about the mis-sale of the 
policy to this service too late as it was more than six years after the sale and more than three 
years after he knew there was a problem in 2008/2009 when he cancelled the plan. As such, 
she didnt think we could consider the complaint about mis-selling of the plan. However, she 
did think we could consider Mr S concerns about not being informed about the redress 
scheme.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusion about the mis-selling aspect of his complaint. 
He confirmed that he had cancelled the plan in 2008 because he realised it was 
unnecessary, however, it was not until 2019 that he thought it had been mis-sold. In addition, 
Mr S said he thought the lack of notification of the redress scheme and it finding the plan 
was mis-sold, should constitute exceptional circumstances that stopped him from raising his 
complaint in time. That said, he confirmed he was satisfied with the information the 
investigator had been provided with about the premiums paid before 2005 and no longer had 
concerns about the amount of the refund offered.
Subsequently, our investigator considered the merits of the complaint about not having been 
informed of the redress scheme. She explained that we could only look at whether the 
scheme rules had been followed when considering a complaint about such a redress 
scheme. She was satisfied the scheme administrator had sent the appropriate documents to 
Mr S at his address, as it was at the time. Therefore, as the scheme rules had been 
followed, she didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He said he moved in 2009 from the address the 
redress scheme letters were sent to, so he hadnt received them. NatWest had been aware 
of his correct address as he informed it of the address change when it happened. In addition, 
Mr S provided a copy of a letter from 2010 produced on joint letterhead of NatWest and the 
provider of the card protection plan. It appears to have been issued when Mr S added some 
insurance cover to a NatWest packaged bank account. This letter was sent to an address 
other than the one used by the card protection provider under the redress scheme.
The plan provider confirmed the letter from 2010 related to an insurance policy provided as 
part of a packaged bank account. It said the policy was administered using a different 
system to the card protection plan and there were no links between them. It said it was not 
informed of a change of address for the card protection plan and the redress scheme 
administrators had sent correspondence to the address it had on file for that plan.
The investigator reiterated to Mr S that we could only consider whether the redress scheme 
rules had been adhered to when considering such a complaint. She was satisfied that they 
had been in this case, as the necessary letters were issued and sent to the address required 
to be used under the rules.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He was of the view that as his NatWest 
credit card, which the plan was linked to was still in use at the time of the redress scheme, 
NatWest had a responsibility to ensure the redress scheme administrator was given an up to 
date address for him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. I 
requested some further information from NatWest. It confirmed the address it held for Mr S 
at the time of the redress scheme correspondence was not that which had been used for 
that correspondence; Mr S had updated his address with it. It also explained that as the card 
protection plan could be used to cover all the cards Mr S had, not just those with NatWest, it 
was his, and not NatWests, responsibility to update the plan provider with any changes of 
address; it did not do so.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 April 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Mr S has now accepted NatWest has offered him an appropriate amount to compensate for 
the mis-sale of the policy up to the start of the redress scheme in 2005. As such, I dont 
propose to comment on this aspect of Mr S complaint further and it is for him to contact 
NatWest to accept the offer made, if he has not already done so. 
In relation to the redress scheme, I would again confirm that I cant look at the concepts of 
the scheme, but rather only consider whether it was administered as it should have been in 
light of the scheme rules. For clarity, I will confirm that although a separate company 
administered the redress scheme, the regulator required the involvement of the plan provider 
and their business partners  the businesses that had sold the plans. In this case the 
business partner was NatWest. 
Eligible customers were sent letters by the scheme administrator inviting them to claim 
compensation for premiums paid after 14 January 2005. The scheme rules required the 
administrator to send correspondence to the last known address for the consumer. That is 
where the problem arises in this case, because the evidence shows that Mr S no longer lived 
at the address the scheme correspondence was sent to and so he didnt receive it.The plan provider has confirmed the address the correspondence was sent to is the last 
address it held for the plan  and when Mr S moved in 2009 he hadnt informed it of his 
change of address. However, NatWest has confirmed that it was informed of that change of 
address and, at the time the information was being gathered for the administration of the 
scheme, it was aware of Mr S correct address.
I am aware that, overall, much effort was made to ensure the correspondence for the 
redress scheme was sent to the correct address. This effort involved both the product 
provider and the businesses responsible for the sale. However, despite one of the parties 
involved in the redress scheme having a correct address for Mr S, the wrong address was 
used. While the scheme administrator appears to have correctly applied the rules, in that it 
sent the correspondence to the address it was provided with, as it was required to, the data 
it was working from was wrong. Given NatWest had the correct address for Mr S, it had a 
responsibility to provide this information to the redress scheme administrator, but it appears 
it didnt do so. As such, it would appear it was responsible for the scheme correspondence 
being sent to an incorrect address.
When we consider redress for an error on the part of a business, we look at what position 
the consumer would have been in, but for that error. In this case, had NatWest provided the 
redress scheme administrator with the correct address for Mr S, I am satisfied he would 
have received the relevant correspondence. In light of his comments about having come to 
the conclusion the policy was not needed in 2008, I find it likely that he would have claimed 
compensation had he received the correspondence. As such, NatWests error meant that 
Mr S was not included in the redress scheme when he otherwise would have been. 
I consider he should be compensated as he would have been, had he been included in the 
redress scheme. 
Mr S confirmed that he was satisfied with my findings and he had nothing further to add.
NatWest said that it hadnt informed the redress scheme administrator about any address 
changes as it wasnt linked to NatWest. It went on to say that Mr S had the option of 
registering any bank card, not just one of its own, and so the only contact it would have had 
with the policy provider was if he had lost his card.  It had nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has said that it wouldnt communicate with the policy provider, other than to notify it 
of a lost card. It has said this was the case, because the policy could be used to cover cards 
from other providers. I can understand why that would be its normal position, however, the 
redress scheme was not normal policy administration and it was conducted by a business 
set up for that sole purpose. 
NatWest was responsible for the sale of the policy; the redress scheme was being 
undertaken on its behalf. In those circumstances NatWest had a responsibility to do what it 
could to ensure its customers or former customers, received the correspondence for the 
scheme. As such, my conclusions havent changed, and I remain satisfied that NatWest 
made an error that meant Mr S wasnt able to participate in the redress scheme. I also 
remain satisfied that Mr S would have participated in the scheme, if he had been given the 
opportunity.Putting things right
NatWest should pay Mr S a sum equivalent to that which he would have received if he had 
been included in the redress scheme. Any interest payable on the refunded premiums 
should be calculated to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require NatWest to settle Mr S as detailed 
above in putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman