DRN-2337200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of their pet insurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mr and Mrs J took out, will continue to cover 
any medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim 
is made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Mr and Mrs J. It has 
accepted the information it gave Mr and Mrs J about the policy wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. And RSA has now offered to pay them £400 compensation for the trouble and 
upset theyve been caused as a result of this. 
Mr and Mrs J havent accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr and Mrs Js policy is too high, they 
should have been charged less for the policy or that they should be charged less in the 
future.
I know Mr and Mrs J are frustrated RSA havent provided them with a more detailed 
breakdown of why their premium increased and dont think RSA are being transparent by 
saying the information is commercially sensitive. However, the calculations a business uses 
to work out its premiums is commercially sensitive information and is kept confidential by 
them - and by us - as there is a possibility if it was shared it would affect the business ability 
to work competitively. They are entitled to keep this information confidential. But I can assure 
Mr and Mrs J I have carefully reviewed it and I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA 
has treated them differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the same 
position. So, I cant tell RSA to charge them a lower premium going forwards.
I know Mr and Mrs J have seen that new policy with RSA would be cheaper, but I dont think 
thats surprising  a new policy is likely to be cheaper than a policy that was taken out some 
time ago, and renewed each year since then. The risk for a business providing pet insurance 
for a new customer is lower than continuing the cover for an existing policyholder  so there 
are legitimate, risk-related reasons for the premium increasing when a lifetime pet insurance 
policy is renewed. 
A new policy wont provide cover for any pre-existing medical conditions and therell usually 
be an exclusion period, which limits the risk the insurer is taking  so a new policy will 
generally work out cheaper. In addition to that often a discount incentive will be applied to a 
new policy  which I know Mr and Mrs J have acknowledged.
Insurers will also take into account the possibility a pet may have visited the vet since the 
policy started, without a claim being made. Any subsequent claim for anything related to this
wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it would be by an existing policy. So, the difference
in premium will reflect this additional risk to them too.  
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs J are concerned that a misdiagnosis made when their dog was a 
puppy has negatively impacted the price of their policy. But RSA have confirmed that they 
have not treated this claim made in the policy year 2014/15 as an ongoing condition. I think it 
is fair for RSA to record Mr and Mrs J as claimants for that policy year as they did make a 
claim that was paid  and a further unconnected claim was also made. I know that Mr and 
Mrs J think that their dogs general good health should be taken into account. But its up to 
RSA to assess the risk they are insuring and price the policy accordingly  its not something 
we would interfere with. 
But I do recognise that Mr and Mrs Js premium increased by a lot more than they expected 
it to  and I dont think RSA gave them the information they needed when he took the policy 
out, to understand this could happen. Where I find something has gone wrong, Ill look at 
whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Mr and Mrs J chose to take out pet insurance, so they wanted some type of cover for their 
dog. And, as they chose to take out a lifetime policy, they clearly had some interest in the 
greater level of cover it provided. If Mr and Mrs J hadnt taken a lifetime policy, they wouldve 
either had no cover at all, and would have had to pay for all their pets 
investigations/treatment themselves, or a reduced level of cover, where they would still have 
found themselves in a situation where their pets conditions were no longer covered. So I 
think its likely they would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, even if theyd known 
the premium could increase significantly in the future. 
I recognise that its possible they might have gone with another provider offering a similar 
policy from the start. But its impossible to know what policy Mr and Mrs J would have ended 
up with  it might have been cheaper, but it might also have been more expensive. I do think 
its likely they would have been paying for some pet insurance. And its unlikely better 
information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted in Mr and Mrs J 
paying a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend to 
operate in a similar way.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr and Mrs J werent 
so surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something she was expecting to happen. I know that Mr and Mrs J dont think that its possible to get another policy that would cover 
existing conditions so they feel locked into the policy. I do recognise it might be harder to find 
a policy that will cover any existing conditions  and have factored this in when thinking 
about whether RSAs offer is fair. But it is possible to get policies that cover dogs with 
existing conditions. Although this type of cover may be expensive, I think that goes someway 
to show why Mr and Mrs Js current policy premiums have increased as they have  as the 
same things will be factored into similar insurance policies for dogs of a similar age with a 
similar medical history. I note that Mr and Mrs J have said on a number of occasions that 
their dog is in good health  and ultimately they do have the choice to change providers if 
theyre unhappy with the premium RSA have offered. 
I think the compensation RSA has offered recognises that better information about the 
longer-term costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Mr and 
Mrs J have experienced. And I think it fairly compensates Mr and Mrs J. 
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Mr and Mrs J £400 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance should pay Mr and Mrs J £400 if it hasnt already. I dont 
require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman