DRN-2872615
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc blocked his account card.
What happened
Mr L says he tried to use his Sainsburys credit card on 17 July 2020, but the transaction 
was blocked which caused him embarrassment. He says as a result he had to cancel 
gardening work on his property which he estimates cost him between £500 and £2,000. Mr L 
says he was told by Sainsburys there was fraud on his account some months before but 
questions why it took so long for his account to be blocked. He also says he was promised a 
call back from Sainsburys which he didnt receive and would like compensation for his loss.
Sainsburys says its entitled to block a transaction where it has fraud concerns which it says 
is what happened here. It says it ought to have replaced Mr Ls account card at an earlier 
stage and has apologised for the delay and offered £75 compensation. Sainsburys says Mr 
L didnt mention the cancelled work on his home but said he missed out on a credit card 
offer with a different business. It says Mr L received a new account card within six days and 
accepts there was a delay in contacting him.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Sainsburys in line with account terms and conditions was entitled to 
block a payment where it had security concerns. And also thought we couldnt look at 
Sainsburys complaint handling. The investigator thought the compensation offer appropriate 
and thought Sainsburys had explained why the block was put in place.
Mr L doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate that Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr L would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions say that 
Sainsburys can in certain circumstances block an account or transaction. Im satisfied that is 
what took place here that Sainsburys had security concerns and placed a block on Mr Ls 
account. So, I dont think Sainsburys made a mistake or acted unfairly by doing so and 
acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate that it was Mr L that was attempting to make the transaction. But Im sure Mr L 
appreciates that banks and building societies must have fraud prevention measures in place 
to protect its, and its customers money. And that on occasions legitimate customers are 
caused inconvenience by genuine transactions being blocked. But I make clear that doesnt 
mean, as in this case, Sainsburys made a mistake or acted unfairly.
There is no question here that Sainsburys ought to have issued a new account card in about 
April 2020. Im satisfied Sainsburys has fairly apologised for that and offered what I think is 
a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £75. I appreciate Mr L would like at least 
£500 compensation. But I make clear to Mr L that I find Sainsburys was entitled to place the 
account block and so I cant fairly order compensation for the cancelled work. In any event I 
dont think Mr L has provided any evidence of that cost, such as a cancellation invoice.
Overall, Im satisfied Sainsburys was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to 
place the account block on Mr Ls account and has offered a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount for the mistake it did make. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £75. Mr Ls acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman