DRN-3780490
The complaint
Mr H complains through his representative that Everyday Lending Limited trading as
Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent him money on high cost loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Mr H with the following loans:
*rounded up or down
He repaid loan 1 with loan 2. The balance of both loans was said to be for car repairs. He 
complained that the loans were unaffordable to him and the repayments caused him 
stress and anxiety.
Everyday said it carried out checks of Mr Hs credit, verified his income, reviewed recent 
bank statements, and assessed his living expenses using ONS (Office for National 
Statistics) data for both loans. It said that in both cases it assessed that the loan 
repayments were affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that Everyday hadnt made 
fair lending decisions in respect of either loan. This was because she said the results of 
the checks show that Mr Hs total monthly credit repayments represented a significant 
proportion of his income. In those circumstances, there was a significant risk that he 
wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow 
again.
Everyday disagreed, pointing out that there are no rules that state what a significant 
percentage amount of repayments to income is or that that should be a reason not to 
grant lending.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I provisionally didnt uphold the complaint in 
respect of loan 1, but did in respect of loan 2.
Neither party responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Date of loan Amount Term Monthly 
repayment*Date repaid
Loan 1 09/07/2015 £1,500 24 months £156 28/01/2016
Loan 2 28/01/2016 £3,655.82 36 months £359 LiveWeve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Everyday is right to say that the rules dont say what a significant percentage amount of
repayments to income is. Nor at the time the loans were approved did they specifically refer
to the value of the consumers debts against their income being a potential indicator of
affordability. Nevertheless our approach is that we think it reasonable to take into account 
where the consumers credit commitments against their income are high. I think that
anything above 25% could be regarded as high and may be a potential indicator that the
loan is unaffordable..loan 1
The credit check showed that Mr H had debt repayments of around £98 a month. He did 
have some defaults on his record and past short term loans. His income was about £1,679 
a month. Based on those figures, with the new loan repayment, the proportion of his 
income being spent on credit commitments was about 15%. His disposable income left 
after taking all that into account was about £342. I think the checks Everyday did were 
reasonable and proportionate and that they showed the loan to be affordable.
loan 2
Mr Hs income had gone down slightly, now being around £1,617 a month. His credit 
commitments had increased slightly. With the new loan repayment figure of £359 
(accounting for the old loan being repaid), his new total credit commitments would have 
been around £460 a month, around 28-29% of his income and a possible indicator that the 
loan might not be affordable, or sustainable.
Everyday assessed Mr Hs disposable income to be around £321 a month. But the only 
reason it reached that figure was because Mr Hs living expenses for loan 1 had been 
assessed at around £813 a month, but for this loan at £566. I cant find any explanation in 
Everydays files as to why the figure changed so much for loan 2, except that it seems it 
said for this loan his living expenses were a straight 35% of his income (according to ONS 
data). But in the absence of any reason why Mr Hs living expenses had gone down, I have 
to conclude that he would have had very little disposable income left to pay the new loan.
I conclude that, although Everyday carried out proportionate checks, those checks would 
have shown the loan made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
As neither party responded to those findings, my provisional findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
Putting things right 
Mr H has had the capital payment in respect of loan 2, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest and 
charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2.
Treat any payments made by Mr H as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr H has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr H.
Remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as
Everyday Loans to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman