DRN-3130787
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt refund her the remaining 50% of money 
she lost as a result of a fraud.
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs S received a text message purporting to be from Barclays informing her 
that a transaction had been attempted on her account and that this was suspected of fraud. 
When she responded that she hadnt carried out the transaction she immediately received a 
call from someone purporting to be a representative of Barclays Fraud Team. They informed 
Mrs S that due to suspicious activity on her account she needed to transfer money to a safe 
account. Mrs S followed the callers instructions and made three payments from her 
Barclays account totalling £2,017.85. Unfortunately, it eventually transpired that Mrs S had 
fallen victim to a fraud and the caller wasnt in fact a representative of Barclays.
Mrs S reported the fraud to Barclays and an investigation was carried out. Barclays 
concluded its investigation and decided to reimburse Mrs S half of the money that shed lost 
(£1008.93). It agreed to pay back half of the funds as it said its confirmation of payee 
systems failed to trigger and detect the fraud. It decided not to reimburse the other half as it 
felt Mrs S hadnt carried out sufficient checks to ensure she was communicating with the 
legitimate business and ignored its fraud warning.
Mrs S, unhappy with this outcome, raised a complaint. Barclays reviewed the circumstances 
of the payments again but concluded its response to her fraud claim was correct. It reiterated 
that it didnt think Mrs S had carried out sufficient due diligence to ensure she was in fact 
talking with Barclays at the time of the call considering the numbers used didnt belong to 
Barclays. It also pointed out that Mrs S was presented with a warning regarding potential 
fraud prior to making the payments but, despite this warning, decided to proceed with the 
payment anyway.
Mrs S remained unhappy with the outcome of her claim and complaint, so she referred her 
complaint to our service where it was reviewed by an Investigator.
After reviewing the evidence from both parties, the Investigator concluded that Barclays 
ought to have given a full refund in the circumstances. He considered the banks obligations 
against its voluntary membership of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) and 
pointed out:
Barclays didnt provide Mrs S with an effective warning.
Mrs S had a reasonable basis for belief that she was discussing her account with a 
genuine representative of Barclays. He pointed out that the fraud alert sent to her via 
text message was convincing, the telephone number she was called from was almost 
identical to that of Barclays genuine number, the fraudster was aware of personal 
information and Mrs S was panicked by a threat of impact to her credit file if she 
didnt act quickly.
The Investigator recommended that Barclays refund the remaining loss; including interest 
and compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Barclays disagreed with the Investigators assessment. It provided the following reasons:
The telephone number from where the fraud alert text message originated was an 
unknown number. It felt this should have raised concern and checks should have 
been carried out to confirm its legitimacy.
The telephone number Mrs S was called from by the fraudsters didnt match its 
genuine number. This, in addition to the text, should have raised suspicions.
Mrs S was provided with a warning regarding risk of fraud. It says that within this, it 
warned Mrs S that itd never ask her to transfer funds and that she should speak with 
someone she trusts about the payment. It says Mrs S didnt heed these warnings.
Mrs S had advised its Fraud Team that her husband recognised the call as a fraud, 
resulting in the fraudster terminating the call. It further submitted that a conversation 
with her husband prior to proceeding with the payments would have likely prevented 
the fraud.
As Barclays disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Barclays should have reimbursed Mrs S in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Mrs S from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute that Mrs S was misled into making the payments from her account. She 
was told her account was at significant risk of fraud and was told that moving her money 
would ensure its safety. However, this alone wouldnt mean Mrs S is entitled to a refund 
under the CRM code.
The responsibility is on Barclays to evidence that Mrs S failed to meet her requisite level of 
care under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM code. Those exceptions 
are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payments being made.
The customer made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
There are other exceptions within the code, but they dont apply to this complaint.
Can Barclays rely upon the exception that Mrs S ignored an effective warning?
Barclays has said in its response to the Investigators findings that Mrs S didnt follow a 
number of its fraud prevention warnings prior to proceeding with the payments. In line with 
the provisions of the CRM code, Ive considered whether the warnings Barclays gave Mrs S 
were effective warnings in compliance with SF1(2).
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mrs S was presented with a number of options 
available to her as to the purpose of the transactions. Ms S decided to choose the friends or 
family option amongst the nine options available. While transfer request by phone was 
another option available, I dont think it unreasonable that Mrs S chose the friends or family 
option as she was under the impression she was paying to an account held in her name. 
And as this wasnt specifically an option, I find the option she did choose to be close enough 
to what she was attempting to achieve.
Mrs S was presented with a warning after selecting this option. This asked her if the 
payment could be a scam. It also warned her that if someone had asked or pressured her to 
making the payment, such as through social media or on a dating site, she should take time 
to think about it before sending the payment. It finally recommended that she speak with 
someone impartial.
Under the provisions of the CRM code, an effective warning must haveas a minimum
been understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. As well as these minimum 
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better 
chance to protect themselves against being defrauded; otherwise it could not have been an 
effective warning.
The warning Barclays provided when Mrs S made the fraud payments subject to this 
complaint seemed to refer to frauds whereby victims are contacted through online 
platformssometimes purporting to be friends and familyasking for funds to be transferred 
to them. But it didnt specifically cover the fraud Mrs S was being targeted with; commonly 
referred to as a safe account fraud. Barclays has told our service that it warned Mrs S that 
itd never ask her to move funds, but having looked at the warning provided to Mrs S, I cant 
see this was the case. So, I dont find this warning to have been impactful or specific to the 
fraud Mrs S fell victim to.
Im also mindful that while Mrs S was recommended to speak to someone impartial about 
the payment, she was under the illusion that the payment instruction had come from her 
bank, and this advice was given in the context of a friend or romance fraud. Its well known 
that customers follow the instruction their bank gives them, and this would especially be the 
case when the apparent purpose of the call is to protect the customer from fraud.
Finally, the warning Barclays provided didnt make clear the consequences of continuing 
with an irrevocable payment; which is also a requirement of an effective warning under the 
CRM code.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs S would have understood that she was at risk of fraud 
from the warning provided. And I dont find that the warning given meets the definition of an 
effective warning in the standards for firms set out in the CRM code. So, Im satisfied Mrs S 
didnt ignore an effective warning and therefore Barclays shouldnt decline reimbursement on 
this basis.Has Barclays established that Mrs S made the payments without a reasonable basis for 
belief?
Having considered carefully the evidence provided by both parties, Im persuaded Mrs S did 
have a reasonable basis for belief that she was speaking with Barclays prior to making the 
transactions, and that she was moving her money to an account that had been set up for her 
to protect her money.
Barclays has relied on a number of factors in its submission that there were sufficient 
warning signs Mrs S chose to ignore and that meant she failed to conduct reasonable due 
diligence checks. 
Mrs S was originally contacted via a text message to her mobile telephone. Having seen the 
contents of this message, there doesnt appear to be anything untoward in its content. The 
message contains no noticeable errors and contains formatting youd typically see from 
financial businesses. I accept the message clearly shows that it comes from a mobile 
telephone number that didnt correspond with a contact in Mrs Ss phone; as the message 
only displayed the mobile number rather than a name. But I dont find it unreasonable that 
Mrs S didnt question this. 
Members of the public receive text messages from a number of agencies and companies
including public bodiesthat dont appear to be named in their contacts. And I find it 
reasonable that the average person wouldnt question this as they would be aware that the 
companys telephone number may not be saved to their contacts. Furthermore, at this stage, 
Mrs S was merely being asked to confirm if shed carried out a transaction by responding 
yes or no. Shed satisfied herself that the payment wasnt showing on her online banking 
and, in her view, she wasnt being asked to carry out any risky action  Im satisfied she 
wasnt aware of this type of scam and so I think its understandable that she didnt scrutinise 
the number or have concerns that this message wasnt from her bank.
Almost immediately after responding to the text message that shed not carried out the 
transaction, Mrs S received a telephone call from the fraudster purporting to be from 
Barclays Fraud Team. Mrs S has informed our service that due to the passage of time, 
shes unable to recall the finer details of the conversation, however, she does remember the 
representative:
Asking her security questions and to confirm a payment on her account
Referring her to the back of her card to ensure the number matched that they were 
calling from. Mrs S said she did challenge the caller on the discrepancy of the last 
digit being incorrect, but the fraudster reassured her they were calling from the Fraud 
Team rather than Customers Services; which is a different extension.
Placed significant pressure on her to transfer the funds quickly as they warned of a 
loan being taken out in her name and the damage this could cause to her credit file.
I find the combined factors above to be significant in how Mrs S formed a basis for believing 
she was discussing her account with a Barclays representative. The fraudster had personal 
information relating to her that she thought only her bank would know and the call followed a 
text message that Mrs S believed to have come from her bank. 
The telephone number mimicked that of the number on the back of her bank card with 
exception of the last digit. When challenged, the fraudster provided a reasonable explanation 
for this. That their department was different to Customer Services and therefore had a 
different extension. It isnt uncommon that telephone calls from different areas of a business 
have slightly different last digits that refer to different extensions/teams. And so overall, 
considering the rest of the number was the same, I find it reasonable that Mrs S associated the call with the business.
Finally, Barclays has said that because Mrs Ss husband recognised the position she was in 
to be a fraud that Mrs S ought to have spoken to him first before carrying out the 
transactions. But its important to remember that it was Mrs S who was talking to the 
fraudster, not her husband. The fraudster had relied on sophisticated social engineering 
tactics to build trust and rapport and had deployed high pressure tactics to scare her and 
blur her better judgement. 
Here, the fraudster frightened Mrs S into believing that her information and account had 
been compromised. They also highlighted that a loan had been applied for by the infiltrator, 
putting her credit file at risk. Mrs S was in the process of applying for finance at the time and 
was particularly concerned about the prospect of this impacting her application. Mrs Ss 
husband had the benefit of thinking clearly given he wasnt the one conversing with the 
fraudster. And he wasnt aware of the incident until the payments had already been made.
Overall, Im satisfied Mrs S did have a reasonable basis for belief that the payments she was 
making were legitimate and met the requisite level of care.  
Putting things right
Ive already highlighted above that Barclays should now go ahead and reimburse the 
remaining 50% of funds lost to the fraud Mrs S fell victim to.
The remaining 50% of money lost was taken from Mrs Ss current account. Its not clear how 
she would have used the money if Barclays had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Barclays should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per 
year from the date it refused the claim to the date of payment.
Lastly, I must consider if any compensation payment is appropriate in the circumstances for 
the impact caused by Barclays error. I think its important to highlight that the vast majority 
of the distress and inconvenience caused by this event was caused by the fraudster. And it 
isnt reasonable to hold Barclays liable for that. But its refusal in paying out her claimas I 
find it should havehas exacerbated the impact the loss of the money was causing to her. 
Mrs S has described worry and sleepless nights as a result of the loss. I think that £100 is a 
reasonable amount of compensation to reflect this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to:
Reimburse Mrs S the remaining money lost as a result of the fraud.
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the remaining money from the date it refused the 
claim to the date it settles with Mrs S.
Pay £100 compensation for the impact caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman