DRN-4190446
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (Accredited Insurances) 
decision to partially decline her claim for damage caused to her property by a storm.
Accredited Insurance is responsible for the actions of its agents, including its surveyors and 
anyone acting on its behalf. So, any reference to Accredited Insurance in this decision is 
also a reference to its agents.
What happened
On 8 June 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold this 
complaint. This is what I said in my provisional decision: 
What happened
On 4 November 2022, Mrs T contacted Accredited Insurance to notify them of her 
claim for damage to the roof of her house caused by a storm, and damage to the 
inside of the house caused by the resulting ingress of water.
Mrs T said that during a storm, with extremely heaving rainfall and wind, part of the 
flat roof (above the bedroom above her garage) began to come off. She said that as 
the flat roof started to come off, it lifted tiles from the main roof, leaving large holes 
and allowing water to come inside the property. Mrs T also said that as the storm 
continued, the flat roof came away further and the rain caused the ceiling under it to 
collapse, damaging the contents and interior of the bedroom below. She explained 
that the flat roof, and half of the main roof, where it had been damaged by the storm, 
would need to be replaced at a cost of approximately £18,000. 
Accredited Insurances field surveyor attended Mrs Ts property on 13 November 
2022, to inspect the damage. He issued a report to Accredited Insurance which said 
the property had a slate roof and slate vertical tiles and was in a poor condition. The 
report explained that the main roof and vertical tiles had been repaired on a number 
of occasions due to nail fatigue, and the felt roof had de-bonded from the decking 
boards and peeled off. The main adjoining roof also had substantial damage with a 
large section of the slates missing. The felt roof had been replaced more than ten 
years ago, and in the field surveyors view, was coming to the end of its practical life.
Accredited Insurance accepted part of Mrs Ts claim, in relation to the internal 
damage caused to the property, but declined Mrs Ts claim for damage to the main 
roof and felt roof on the basis that the damage wasnt directly caused by the storm, 
as set out in the field surveyors report.
Mrs T complained about Accredited Insurances claim decision, so its in-house 
surveyor considered the report and photographs. He agreed with the field surveyors 
conclusion that the main slate roof had pre-existing underlying issues evidenced by 
the previous repairs and the flat roof had reached the end of its life span.
On 16 November 2022, Accredited Insurance issued its final response not upholding 
Mrs Ts complaint. It concluded the part of the claim relating to the roof had been 
fairly declined. Unhappy with their response, Mrs T referred her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view on 20 
April 2023, not upholding the complaint. He said the evidence provided by Accredited 
Insurance persuaded him that the storm wasnt the main cause of damage to the 
roof, so its decision to decline that part of Mrs Ts claim was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs T didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision 
on her complaint. She accepted the main roof had previously been patch repaired but 
said that the flat roof had been replaced approximately 12 years ago. On the basis it 
should last approximately 20-25 years, she believed the felt roof should have been 
covered.
Mrs T also said that all of the costs to repair the internal damage should be covered. 
She provided evidence to show that the cost to her of having the internal damage 
repaired was £2047, not £1546 as offered by Accredited Insurance.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator regarding the 
damage to the roof. But, Ive come to a different conclusion in relation to the internal 
damage Mrs T has claimed for.
Mrs T is unhappy that Accredited Insurance declined her claim for damage to her 
roof and believes the storm was responsible for the damage caused, not wear and 
tear as argued by Accredited Insurance. So, Ive first considered this claim decision 
reached by Accredited Insurance to see whether it was made in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions and was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask 
ourselves three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely 
that the claim wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask are:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the reported damage?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
So, Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Were there storm conditions?
Accredited Insurance accepts there were storm conditions around the time of the 
damage occurring.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?Accredited Insurance concluded, on the basis of evidence from its field surveyor that 
the damage to Mrs Ts main roof and felt roof was not directly caused by the storm. 
The field surveyor reported that the roof was in poor condition and there was 
evidence of previous repairs undertaken to the slate roof. He observed that the felt 
that had come away from the flat roof was aged and deteriorated and had reached 
the end of its life. The field surveyor explained that the felt on the roof could only be 
removed by winds that are able to get underneath the felt in the first place. In order 
for winds to do that, the bond between the felt and the wooden decking must be in a 
compromised state.
Accredited Insurances in-house surveyor reviewed the photographs taken by the 
field surveyor, and agreed with his assessment, concluding that the damage to the 
main roof and felt roof wasnt consistent with storm damage.
In response to the view, Mrs T said that the felt roof was only 12 years old and prior 
to the storm had never leaked nor shown any signs of deterioration or of being brittle.
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make 
my decision based on what I think more likely than not was the case. Having 
considered all of the available evidence regarding the damage, including the report 
and photographs from Accredited Insurances field surveyor and Mrs Ts 
submissions, Im of the view that the storm wasnt the main cause of damage to the 
main roof and felt roof. While the storm may have exacerbated the existing damage, 
Im not persuaded it was the direct cause of the damage, so, I think Accredited 
Insurance has fairly declined this part of Mrs Ts claim.
Ive next gone on to consider the way Accredited Insurance has handled Mrs T claim 
for internal damage to her property. Accredited Insurance accepted Mrs Ts claim for 
accidental damage and offered her a cash settlement of £1,546.20 (less the excess 
of £250). At the time its business file had been provided to this service, that offer 
hadnt been accepted by Mrs T.
But Mrs T says that the cost of repairing the internal damage (including obtaining like 
for like replacements of the carpet and bedding) came to £2,047. Mrs T accepts that 
the £250 excess needs to be deducted from that sum but says the balance of £1797 
ought to be paid to her in settlement of her claim for internal damage to her property.
Accredited Insurance has elected to cash settle this part of the claim, rather than 
carry out the repair works, so the settlement amount needs to be sufficient to allow 
Mrs T to get the work completed herself. Having carefully considered Mrs Ts 
evidence of the costs shes incurred to repair the damage to the interior of the 
property, Im currently of the view that Accredited Insurance hasnt made her 
reasonable cash settlement offer. To fairly indemnify Mrs T for the cost of repair to 
the internal damage, Im currently of the view that Accredited Insurance needs to pay 
the cost to her, of repairing the internal damage.  
Im therefore intending to require Accredited Insurance to pay Mrs T £2047 less the 
£250 excess, in settlement of her claim. If Accredited Insurance has made any 
payment to Mrs T, in partial settlement of her claim, then it may deduct that amount 
from the settlement sum. Given the time Mrs T has been without the funds, Im also 
intending to require Accredited Insurance to add interest to the settlement amount it 
pays to Mrs T at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date she paid the money to 
the date it makes payment.I concluded by saying that Accredited Insurance had acted fairly in declining Mrs Ts claim 
for damage to her roof. So, I wasnt intending to ask it to do anything differently in relation to 
that part of the claim. However, I didnt think Accredited Insurance had made a fair offer to 
settle Mrs Ts claim for internal damage to her property. So, I was intending to partially 
uphold this complaint and require Accredited Insurance to pay £2,047 to  Mrs T in settlement 
of her claim for internal damage to her property and contents (less the £250 excess and any 
payment it has already made to Mrs T to settle this part of her claim) and 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
I asked both parties to let me have any final arguments or information to consider before 
issuing my final decision on this complaint.
Mrs T responded to say that she accepted the provisional decision. 
Accredited Insurance also responded but said it didnt accept some of the findings in the 
provisional decision. In summary, Accredited Insurance said it couldnt offer a contractor to 
reinstate the internal damage as its contractor could not guarantee the work, while the 
repairs to the roof were outstanding. Accredited Insurance also said it offered the cash 
settlement to reinstate the internal damage to Mrs T on 16 November 2022. With regard to 
the carpets and bedding, Accredited Insurance said those would be considered contents 
under the policy and would not form part of the buildings settlement that it offered. However, 
it does agree that those items have not been reviewed or offered to Mrs T and observes that 
those items would make up most of the difference between the amount it offered and the 
amount Im stating it needs to pay.
Accredited Insurance has also submitted that the 8% interest should only apply to the 
contents element of the settlement as that was the only section that hadnt been made 
available to Mrs T to accept, within two weeks of the incident date. Ive taken these further 
comments into account in making my final decision on Mrs Ts complaint. 
As both parties have now responded to the provisional decision, I will now proceed to give 
my final decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first thought about Accredited Insurances submission that its contractor couldnt 
guarantee the internal works if the external repairs hadnt been completed. And while I 
accept that may be the case, I remain of the view that for Accredited Insurance to settle 
Mrs Ts claim, in a way that will indemnify her, the cash settlement for the repair of the 
internal damage and the replacement of the contents, needs to be made on the basis of the 
cost to Mrs T of carrying out those repairs and replacing the contents.  
Ive also considered Accredited Insurances comments regarding the payment of 8% 
interest. However, I note that Accredited Insurance only made an offer to Mrs T, it didnt 
send her payment. That meant the internal repair works and replacement of contents had to 
be paid for out of Mrs Ts own funds. I therefore think it appropriate for Accredited Insurance 
to pay Mrs T 8% interest from the date she paid for the internal damage to be repaired, and 
replaced the damaged contents, to the date it pays her the amounts awarded in this 
decision. 
For these reasons, I remain of the view that Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld in part and I 
require Accredited Insurance to make the payments detailed below.Putting things right
For the reasons given in this final decision, and my provisional decision, Im partially 
upholding Mrs Ts complaint on the basis that Accredited Insurance hasnt made a fair offer 
to settle her claim for the repairs to the internal damage to her property and contents.
I therefore require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Mrs T:
£2047 in settlement of her claim for internal damage to her property and replacement 
of the affected contents (less the £250 excess and any payment it has already made 
to Mrs T to settle this part of her claim); and
Interest on the sum above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. (If Accredited Insurance thinks its required by HM Revenue 
and Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs T how much 
it has taken off and provide a tax deduction certificate if required).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Ltd to pay the awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman