DRN-4455430
The complaint
Ms G complains about the service she received from NewDay Ltd trading as John Lewis
Credit Card (NewDay) when she applied for a credit card.
What happened
Ms G had a John Lewis credit card account which she had held for a number of years. In
October 2022, John Lewis changed its credit provider to NewDay. As a result, customers
had to apply to NewDay for a new card. Customers who were accepted for the new card
were given an introductory offer, which meant they would receive triple reward points on
eligible purchases for the first 90 days after being accepted for the new card.
Ms G decided to apply for the new card and did so over the phone from a John Lewis store.
She spoke to one of NewDays agents. But she wasnt happy with the way the agent
handled the application and says she felt pressured to set up a Direct Debit, which didnt suit
her. She says the agent appointed an Online Account Manager as well, even though Ms G
didnt want this. She found the agent very rude and didnt feel comfortable to go ahead, so
she asked for the account to be cancelled under the cooling-off process.
Ms G thought that would be the end of the matter. But, shortly afterwards, she received
emails and text messages confirming that an account had been opened for her. Ms G
queried this with NewDay. The second agent she spoke to confirmed that the account had
been closed. He said that, because this had happened within the cooling-off period, any
effect on Ms Gs credit rating would be temporary and, ultimately, it would be as though the
application had never been made. He suggested that Ms G check her credit rating online,
which is not something she wanted to do.
Ms G remained unhappy about the situation and concerned about the impact it might have
had on her credit file. She raised a complaint. NewDay accepted that the attitude of the first
agent had been inappropriate. It understood why Ms G had chosen not to proceed with the
account based on that call. It also said that the second agent had made mistakes. He should
have raised a complaint for Ms G. And he gave her incorrect information about the way the
account had been closed and the effect on her credit file.
NewDay told Ms G that the account hadnt been closed correctly. Instead of closing it
through the cooling-off process, the agent had cancelled it through the normal process. This
meant that the account and hard credit search would show on Ms Gs credit file. NewDay
said it would remove these entries straight away but said it could take up to 90 days for the
changes to show on her credit file. NewDay also said that, if Ms G wanted to re-apply for a
John Lewis credit card, she would have to wait at least six months before doing so and that
there was no guarantee what the outcome of any future application would be. NewDay paid
Ms G £100 as an apology for the trouble it had caused her.
Ms G remained unhappy about the situation and asked this service to look at the complaint.
She wanted to be sure that the account had been removed from her credit file and that she
wouldnt be turned down for any future borrowing because of it. She said that, if NewDays
agent hadnt pressured her into setting up a Direct Debit, she wouldnt have cancelled the
account. So, she said she would have benefitted from having the credit card, including
receiving triple reward points under the introductory offer. She said that NewDay should
compensate her for this as well as the stress and anxiety it has caused.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 2023 indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. I recommended that NewDay pay Ms G further compensation of £100 and send 
her reward vouchers to the value of £50. NewDay accepted these recommendations. But it 
said it couldnt issue John Lewis vouchers. It offered to send Ms G another type of voucher 
to the value of £50. Alternatively, it said it could pay the £50 as cash rather than vouchers.
Ms G was disappointed with the level of compensation Id recommended. She said she 
hasnt re-applied for a credit card because she has been waiting for the outcome of this 
complaint. But she said that, in the meantime, she has continued to shop regularly and has 
made some significant purchases, all of which she could have made on the card but for 
NewDays mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Ms Gs comments and looked at everything again in order to make this final 
decision. Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, but Im afraid I havent changed my mind about the 
amount of compensation which NewDay needs to pay here. My reasons are set out below.
NewDay accepts that the service Ms G received from its agents wasnt satisfactory,
particularly during the first call. It accepts that she decided not to go ahead with the account
because of that call. NewDay also accepts that it should have closed the account using the
cooling-off process and, because it didnt do so, the account and a hard search were
recorded on Ms Gs credit file. As these issues arent disputed, I dont need to look into them
in detail here. Instead, Ill focus on whether NewDay has done enough to put things right for
Ms G following these mistakes.
Starting with Ms Gs credit file, NewDay agreed to update this to put it in the same position it
would have been in if the account had been closed through the cooling-off process. It says
this means removing the hard search which had been carried out during the application as
well as removing the account itself. NewDay says it requested these changes on 17
November 2022. I havent seen Ms Gs credit file but, from the information available to me,
Im satisfied that NewDay requested these corrections. I havent seen any evidence that Ms
G suffered any adverse credit impact, either before the changes were made or since. So, I
dont think NewDay needs to do any more in relation to the credit file.
Ms G is unhappy about having to wait six months before she could apply for a card again, as
well as NewDays comment that it couldnt guarantee the outcome of any future application.
Its generally advisable to wait around six months between credit card applications because
multiple applications within a short space of time can be detrimental to a customers credit
score. I wouldnt expect NewDay to tell Ms G that a future application would be approved or
tell her what credit limit she might be offered in future. Those are decisions which a business
can only make when a customer actually applies. So I think what NewDay told Ms G was
correct. But shes only in this position because of NewDays mistakes, so Ill consider this in
more detail.
Ms G says she doesnt want to apply for any other credit cards. It was only the John Lewis
credit card which she wanted as shed had one for several years without any problems. The
only reason she was having to re-apply was because the credit provider was changing toNewDay. Ms G was approved for a credit limit of £4,000, which she was happy with. Its not
in dispute that the reason she withdrew from the application was the service she received
from NewDay, which wasnt in line with NewDays expectations. Im satisfied that, but for
NewDays poor service, Ms G would have let the application run its course. She had already
been approved for the card. So, she would have had it from November 2022 onwards. But,
because of the issues which arose, she hasnt had a credit card since then.
Ms G says she would have benefitted from having the card. It would have provided a credit
facility as well as the protection which comes with making purchases on a credit card. So I
think shes suffered a negative impact by not having the card. But I cant conclude that it was
so important for Ms G to have the card that she has suffered significant detriment by not
having it. Thats because Ms G still hasnt re-applied for the card. I realise she was waiting 
for the outcome of this complaint. But I think that, if it was so important to her to have the 
card and be earning reward points, she could have applied by now. The outstanding 
complaint wouldnt have stopped her from doing that or affected her application. Ive also 
taken into account the fact that Ms G said on the call recording that she was in two minds 
about applying for the card in the first place. Ive taken all these factors into account to 
decide what would be a fair amount of compensation here.
Ms G says that what she particularly liked about the John Lewis credit card was the fact that
she earned points when she used it and she would receive reward vouchers every few
months. Customers who were accepted for the NewDay card received triple points for the
first 90 days. Ms G was accepted for the card in October 2022 and I find that the triple points 
offer would have been available to her for 90 days from the date she was accepted. 
Ive seen Ms Gs credit card statements for the 13 months up to October 2022. Im satisfied
that, if shed had the card, shed have used it regularly while the offer was on. I understand
that triple points were only available on certain purchases. Based on Ms Gs past spending
and her comments about how she used the credit card and why she wanted it, I find it likely
that she would have made eligible purchases during the offer period. She would also have
continued to earn regular points in the usual way. 
Ms G says that the nature of her spending since this complaint began means she could have 
earned a significant number of reward points on the card in that time. I dont doubt this. But 
Im looking at the situation impartially, and I think its also relevant that Ms G knew she was 
giving up the chance to earn points (including the triple points offer) when she decided to 
cancel the account.
In my provisional decision, I recommended that NewDay send Ms G reward vouchers to the 
value of £50. For the reasons above, I still think this is a fair amount. But NewDay has since 
confirmed that it cant issue John Lewis vouchers and Ms G said she would prefer to have 
cash instead of alternative vouchers. So, Im going to ask NewDay to pay this part of the 
redress as cash instead of vouchers.
I think NewDay should also pay Ms G some compensation for the distress and
inconvenience she has suffered. She had an unpleasant experience when speaking to
NewDays agent, which she described as alarming. She then discovered that the account
hadnt been closed properly and had been recorded on her credit file. She was very
concerned about negative repercussions from this and says she had never had cause to
worry about her credit file before. NewDay then gave her incorrect information about how her
credit file would be affected. And she was left without a credit card and unable to apply again
straight away. I think its understandable that this was worrying and frustrating for Ms G. She
also had to spend time contacting NewDay to find out what had happened, and it was only
as a result of her complaint that it came to light the card hadnt been cancelled correctly. Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, but I still think that £200 is a fair amount of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience she experienced. This is in addition to the £50 referred to 
above in relation to the reward points. That means the total compensation for this complaint 
is £250. As NewDay has already paid £100 to Ms G, the effect of my decision is that it will 
have to pay her a further £150.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as John Lewis Credit 
Card should pay Ms G further compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman