DRN-2847813
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) irresponsibly lent to him. He says the 
right checks werent carried out before this loan was provided. 
Background
Lendable provided Mr B with a loan in April 2018. The loan was for £2,000.00. The loan had 
a 24-month term and an APR of 29.1%. This meant that the total amount of £2,567.14, 
including interest and other charges of £567.14, was due to be repaid by 23 monthly 
instalments of around £108.00 followed by a final monthly instalment of around £93.
Mr Bs complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Lendable hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So she didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint be 
upheld. As Mr B disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
could afford to make the loan payments before lending to him. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understand it, Lendable enquiries into Mr Bs circumstances suggested that he was 
employed and earning at least £800 a month  he declared his income as being significantly 
more than this. I also understand that Lendable also carried out a credit check which showed 
Mr B had some existing credit commitments, which hed had no significant previous 
repayment issues with. 
As there was no concerning information on Mr Bs credit file, the monthly payments were 
relatively low and this was his first loan with Lendable, there is an argument for saying that it 
wasnt unreasonable for Lendable to relay on the information provided and that its checks 
were proportionate here. But even if Lendables checks werent proportionate in this 
instance, I dont think that further checks would have stopped Lendable from lending. 
I say this because the bank statements Mr B has provided us with show that he was 
receiving more than Lendable thought each month. They also indicate that he could afford 
the monthly payments and dont show any other obvious reason not to lend either. So, in any 
event, I cant reasonably say that further checks would have prevented Lendable from 
providing this loan either.
I accept that Mr B might have had difficulty making the payments to this loan and Im sorry to 
hear this. But Im satisfied that proportionate checks dont suggest Mr B shouldnt have been 
provided with this loan. I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for 
me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this 
case, I dont think that Lendable did do anything wrong when providing this loan. 
So overall I dont think that Lendable treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably. As this is the 
case and while I sympathise with Mr B as a result of any difficulties he might have gone on 
to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding his complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially as hes quite rightly pointed 
out it has taken some time for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman