DRN-3119252
The complaint
Mr K complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (ELL) didnt 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks when approving him for two loans.
What happened
Mr K was approved for two loans with ELL:
Loan Date of loan Value of 
LoanTerm of 
loanMonthly 
repayments 
(approx.)Total 
repayable 
value (approx.)
Loan one 25 October 2017 £5,000 36 months £244 £8,771
Loan two 28 February 2019 £5,700 48 months £244 £11,686
Originally, we spilt the complaint and investigated both loans under different complaint 
references. However, this decision covers both loans.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ks complaint and upheld it in part. 
He said ELL hadnt completed proportionate checks before approving loan one; but he 
wasnt able to identify whether further checks wouldve shown loan one to be unaffordable. 
He said this because Mr K wasnt able to provide us with information about his financial 
circumstances around that time. As such, our investigator concluded ELL hadnt made an 
unfair decision to lend loan one. 
Our investigator also felt ELL hadnt completed proportionate checks before approving loan 
two; but didnt go on to make a finding about whether those checks would likely have shown 
loan two to be affordable or not. This was because he was satisfied, based on the 
information ELL had obtained at the time, that it ought reasonably to have been aware 
further borrowing would have been unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr K. 
Mr K acknowledged our investigators findings. ELL responded to our investigators findings 
about loan one, seemingly looking for clarification as to whether we were upholding it or not. 
And it hasnt replied to our investigators findings about loan two. 
As ELL hasnt agreed with our investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ks complaint. 
These are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr K to satisfy itself he was 
in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mr K would have been able to do so?
2. Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where ELL ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ks indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
3. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr K to satisfy itself he was in a 
position to afford to repay the loans sustainably? 
ELL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr K. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time ELL lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ks ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for ELL to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without having to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about each loan.
Loan one
ELL has said it obtained details of Mr Ks income and used Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data to calculate Mr Ks expenses. It says it completed a credit file check and verified 
Mr Ks income using a credit tool. Based on this information, ELL has said it calculated the 
loan to be affordable to Mr K, and it considers it completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks. 
Ive carefully considered ELLs argument here; but I dont agree it did complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks when approving loan one. I say this because Mr K was looking to 
take a significant amount of borrowing to consolidate existing debts. ELL could see from the 
credit file check it completed that Mr K had around nine active lines of credit across a 
number of different products, with some close to their limits. ELL could also see Mr K had 
significantly increased the number of active accounts within the 12 months leading up to this 
loan, and his overall level of indebtedness had also increased across this period of time. 
Hed opened seven of the accounts within six months of this loan; with the more recent 
appearing to be short term lending, which Mr K explained during the setup call were to cover unexpected home repairs. I consider this suggests Mr K was already working to a tight 
budget and didnt have the disposable income to cover unexcepted costs, should they occur. 
ELL has said it used Office of National Statistics data to provide an average figure for Mr Ks 
outgoings; and used this to calculate Mr Ks affordability to repay the loan. But I dont 
consider this to be sufficient in the circumstances. Mr Ks recent increased reliance on credit 
suggests there were early signs of the possibility that Mr K wasnt managing his finances 
well. And ELL knew Mr K had two dependents  so it was aware he would likely have 
experienced unexpected costs at some point across the full term of the loan. 
While I accept that by consolidating existing debts ELL wasnt increasing Mr Ks 
indebtedness, it still needed to ensure repayments to the loan were sustainably affordable to 
Mr K, so Im persuaded it needed to gather a thorough understanding of his financial 
circumstances in order the checks to be proportionate. 
As such, I consider ELL needed to understand Mr Ks outgoings by looking to verify his 
expenditure. 
Loan two
ELL has said its checks at loan two were largely the same as loan one  it obtained details 
of Mr Ks income and used ONS data to calculate Mr Ks expenditure. It says it completed a 
credit file check to understand his credit commitments and check his income. ELL has said 
the checks it completed were proportionate and the loan was affordable to Mr K. 
Ive already concluded ELL didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
approving loan one; and Mr Ks financial circumstances hadnt significantly improved by loan 
two. In fact, it had got worse. At loan two Mr K was returning to ELL within a period of 16 
months for further finance. Mr Ks first loan with ELL was to consolidate existing lending, so I 
think it ought to have questioned why Mr K was returning to it so soon to obtain further 
lending. This is especially the case given the credit check ELL completed at loan two doesnt 
appear to confirm that loan one was used to consolidate all of the lending Mr K had detailed 
within that application. 
The credit check ELL obtained at loan two showed Mr K had opened around 35 other credit 
accounts since loan one, some of which were still active. A number of these appear to be 
short term lending, suggesting Mr K was having problems managing his money on a month 
to month basis. 
As such I consider ELL needed to verify Mr Ks outgoings to get a full understanding of his 
financial circumstances. So, it therefore follows I dont consider ELL completed proportionate 
checks before approving loan two either. 
Would further checks have shown Mr K would have been able to meet the repayments 
towards the loans sustainably?
As I dont consider ELL completed reasonable and proportionate checks when approving 
either loan, Ive gone on to consider what further checks would likely have shown.
Loan one
Our investigator asked Mr K to provide us with his bank statements from around three 
months leading up to loan one. We find this provides us with a good indication of how a 
consumers financial circumstances are around the time of applying for a loan, as well as 
evidence of their income and outgoings. Mr K wasnt able to provide us with the required information, so Im unable to obtain a full 
understanding of Mr Ks financial situation around the time of loan one. So, in the absence of 
this information; I think its more likely than not that the consolidation wouldve shown the 
loan was likely sustainably affordable to Mr K. Therefore, I dont think ELL made an unfair 
lending decision when approving loan one. 
Loan two
Mr K hasnt provided information which enables me to obtain an understanding of his 
financial circumstances around the time loan two was approved. So, it therefore follows I 
cant say what ELL would likely have seen had it completed more detailed checks at this 
time. 
However, I think there are other reasons ELL didnt make a fair lending decision when 
approving loan two; and Ive gone on to explain why below.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
ELL ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ks indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
Loan one
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest ELL ought reasonably to have realised it was 
increasing Mr Ks indebtedness in an unsustainable or otherwise harmful way. 
Loan two
ELL has provided our service with the credit check it completed before approving loan two. 
The credit check shows Mr K had opened around 35 credit accounts since applying for loan 
one just 16 months before. These accounts appear to be spread across different credit 
products; suggesting to ELL that Mr K wasnt managing his finances well. ELL did question 
some of the lending within the recent months of this application; and it accepted Mr Ks 
reasons at face value. However, I consider it shouldnt have so easily accepted Mr Ks 
answers here. Mr Ks pattern of borrowing suggests someone who is not sustainably 
managing their money on a monthly basis and is having to borrow further to meet payments 
to their existing commitments. 
By loan two, Mr K had around £12,000 of existing debt, and it appears loan two was going to 
increase his total indebtedness. I say this because although the information from the 
application suggests Mr K was looking to consolidate his existing debts again, during the 
setup call Mr K says the money will be used for home improvements. ELL doesnt appear to 
have noticed the discrepancy to the application details and questioned it; or it did identify the 
discrepancy but chose to ignore it. Either way it doesnt appear to have obtained further 
clarification about the purpose of the loan, and it therefore seems likely, on balance, that 
Mr K didnt intend to use the loan for consolidation and would therefore be further increasing 
his indebtedness. 
Im not satisfied Mr Ks credit file demonstrates that further lending would be sustainably 
affordable to him across the full term of the loan. I consider the pattern of lending ELL saw 
on Mr Ks credit file suggested it was likely Mr K would need to borrow further to meet his 
repayments to loan two; and ELL ought to have identified that by approving loan two it would 
likely be increasing his indebtedness in an unsustainable or otherwise harmful way. So, for 
these reasons Im satisfied ELL didnt make a fair lending decision when approving Mr K for 
loan two. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any information which suggests ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way in relation to Mr Ks complaint.
Putting things right
To settle Mr Ks complaint Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com should 
do the following:
Refund all interest, fees and charges added to loan two and add 8% per annum 
simple interest from the date they arose to the date of settlement. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ks credit file regarding loan two. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com 
to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com to put things right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman