DRN-1732031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are upset by that their insurers, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who 
declined their claim under their home insurance policy. 
Reference to Ageas also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs C put her foot through some floorboards which caused damage to the 
ceiling in the room below. They made a claim to Ageas who instructed a loss adjuster to 
inspect the damage. 
The loss adjuster reported that the floorboards had become weakened and rotten as a result 
of a leak that happened in October 2018. She also reported that the shower seals were 
faulty which were excluded by the wear and tear exclusion in the policy. She told Mrs C that 
the claim would be declined, and it appeared at that point, that this was accepted by Mr and 
Mrs C.
Nevertheless, Mr and Mrs C attempted to get a report from a plumber that would show that 
there was no link between this event and the previous leak in October. But this wasnt 
provided. 
Ageas said that it relied upon the report from its loss adjuster and the policy exclusion 
clause. It also said that without evidence provided by Mr and Mrs C (such as a report from 
the plumber who fixed the previous leak) that could disprove what the loss adjuster had 
concluded, then the claim would remain declined. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with Ageas and so they referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said that Ageas had acted fairly when it 
declined the claim. He said that the policy excluded claims arising from wear and tear, which 
Ageas could rely on. He also said that because Mr and Mrs C didnt provide any expert 
evidence to show what work was undertaken, when it was undertaken and whether that 
event was linked to the current leak, then Ageas was reasonable in relying upon the loss 
adjusters conclusions. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigator. They said that his findings were incorrect as 
there was no link between the two leaks and the photographic evidence proved it. They also 
said that there was no evidence of wear and tear and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. 
I can understand that this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
I have considered the evidence Ageas relied upon as well as the evidence from Mr and Mrs 
C in deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Is there a link between the two events? 
Mr and Mrs C have said that the leak that happened in October 2018 was a separate event 
to that of the current incident. They said that the position of that leak wasnt in the same area 
as the leak in April 2019. They also never saw any signs of water escape anywhere on the 
ceiling below. 
Ageas has relied upon the loss adjusters report which says that there was a link between 
the October 2018 leak and the leak in April 2019. The report states: It is our opinion that the 
floorboards have weakened through rot as a result of the incident in October 2018. There 
does not appear to be any further source however we have recommended the Insured 
employ the services of a reputable plumber to investigate further.
Mr and Mrs C have produced photographs in support of their position that although the leaks 
were in the same room, there werent in the same area. I have listened to the call between 
Ageas and Mrs C, where she reports the leak in October 2018. I note that she is consistent 
in her account to the insurers then and what she told the loss adjuster around six months 
later about the situation of the leaks.  
Ageas did request for expert evidence from Mr and Mrs C to prove that there was no link 
between the two incidents. Unfortunately, this wasnt provided and so I must rely upon the 
account of Mr C and that of the loss adjuster who is considered the expert. In the loss 
adjusters report, its clear that there was a link and so I think its reasonable for Ageas to 
have relied upon this evidence, when concluding that there was a link between the two 
leaks. 
Accidental Damage 
Both parties accept that the floorboards were rotten. Ageas has said that this and the 
bubbling paint damage near the seal of the shower, shows that there had been a leak for 
some time. In the absence of any expert evidence (such as a plumbers report) from Mr and 
Mrs C that could disprove what Ageas has said in its report, I am persuaded that there was a 
leak over some time, which led to Mrs Cs unfortunate accident.  
I have next looked at the policy terms and conditions to see whether Ageas shouldve 
considered the accidental damage clause before declining the claim. The policy says that: 
What is not Covered:  f) the cost of general maintenance; g) for loss or damage caused by 
wear and tear, infestation, corrosion, damp, wet or dry rot, mould or frost or any other 
gradually operating cause. 
Both parties accept that the floorboards were rotten. Ageas has specified some areas which 
it felt showed water damage over time. These were the shower seals, the rotten floorboards, 
the peeling and bubbling paint. I have also seen photographs which show the damage as described. So, I think that it was reasonable for Ageas to have concluded that the water 
damage was caused over time and couldnt be considered a one-off incident. And I think it 
was fair for Ageas not to rely on the wear and tear and rot exclusion clauses in the policy. 
 
So overall, I am satisfied that Ageas treated Mr and Mrs C fairly and as such I cant see that 
it has been unreasonable in declining their claim and there is nothing further that I can ask it 
to reasonably do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman