DRN-3665785
The complaint
Ms L complains about the online services from Swansea Building Society (SBS).
What happened
Ms L had savings accounts with SBS. Beginning in 2021, she had difficulty logging onto 
SBS online systems to access her accounts. There were several conversations and 
communications between SBS and Ms L in October 2021 and March 2022, but still Ms L 
couldnt log on successfully. In the end, in April 2022 Ms L complained and after that, she 
closed her savings accounts with SBS.
Ms L complained that she couldnt get access to her SBS accounts online, and that SBS 
staff couldnt help her. She said she spend a long time on the phone trying to resolve the 
problems and missed several appointments as a result. She said SBS were guilty of corrupt 
business practices and had covered up what happened. And she said that when she spoke 
to a branch on a Saturday, they were disinterested in her problems. 
SBS issued two formal responses. They said that while they accepted that Ms Ls 
experience had been frustrating, the records of her attempted log-ins on 1 October 2021 and 
7 March 2022 (the dates in question) showed she had entered the wrong information  
incorrect password, memorable information or activation code. On 1 October 2021, this led 
to her online access being suspended. They said that online security was important and the 
security processes were in place to protect customer data. SBS listened to the calls between 
their staff and Ms L - and considered the staff to be helpful and they tried to reactivate Ms Ls 
online access. SBS could not locate any calls to a branch on a Saturday  the calls took 
place mid-week. So, they could not comment further on that.
Ms L responded to the final response and SBS CEO replied. He said there were more that 
3,200 customers of SBS using their online services and satisfaction was very high. He 
checked the online log on information and confirmed that Ms L had entered the wrong 
information to log on. He said he wanted to help Ms L get online successfully and offered to 
arrange an appointment to help Ms L again. Ms L responded and rejected what the CEO had 
said and said any further time spent on the issue would be wasted. 
Ms L brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said SBS should do more to settle Ms Ls 
complaint. He considered that SBS shouldve got to the root cause of the issues  which 
appeared to be a problem with her mobile phone. If they had, the other calls wouldnt have 
been needed and Ms Ls time wouldnt have been so wasted. He recommended that SBS 
pay compensation of £100.
SBS accepted the findings, but Ms L didnt. She said our investigators view hadnt 
addressed all the facts as she saw them. She asked that an ombudsman look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the correspondence between our investigator and Ms L. So, at the outset allow me 
to say what our role is here  we are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to 
come to fair decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial 
business. We do this based on the facts of the case as we see them, having taken evidence 
from both parties. We dont take sides. 
I would also say that we cant tell businesses to change their operations, processes, or 
procedures  thats up to them, and we cant interfere. So  cant ask SBS to change their 
online service or processes. But our role is to decide if customers have been treated fairly in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
We also look at what we consider to be the important aspects of a complaint  so that 
means we dont necessarily look at everything that has happened or has been argued. We 
believe its important to get to the crux of a complaint.
I have looked at Ms Ls complaint - bearing in mind the three points Ive made.
I do understand how important online access to account information is  especially as Ms L 
lives a long way from SBS branches. And when it doesnt work for whatever reason, it can 
be very frustrating.
The main crux of Ms Ls complaint was that she couldnt get access to SBS online services. 
This had been going on for several months. Ms L says shes had no problems when using 
other firms online services  so it must be a fault within SBS. We asked SBS for more 
information about what happened when Ms L tried to log on - on 1 October 2021 and on 7 
March 2022. We looked at SBS data. This clearly shows that Ms L entered the wrong 
password and / or memorable information and /or activation code. This happened on both 
dates. On 1 October 2021, this led to the online access being suspended. This information 
cannot be disputed  and Im confident that is what happened.
I then thought about whether there was a problem within SBS systems causing a problem. 
SBS told us that their online system is provided by a known provider who do the same for 
many other firms. And SBS showed us evidence that on the two dates mentioned, there 
were many successful log-ons by their other customers  and so Im confident there was 
nothing wrong with their systems. SBSs CEO also told Ms L that the feedback on their 
online services is very positive  and I accept that.
And so  Im persuaded that Ms L did use the wrong log-on credentials and therefore 
couldnt gain access to online services because of that.
Turning to the service that SBS gave her when she contacted them. Ive listened to the four 
calls that took place on 30 March 2022 and 31 March 2022. I must say I found SBS staff 
polite and they genuinely tried to resolve Ms Ls problems. Ms L became frustrated as she 
felt they were going through the same checks that had previously failed  but equally, I can 
accept that the staff needed to go through a process each time to try to establish what might 
have been the problem. Two of the calls established that the problem may have been with 
Ms Ls mobile phone  as it kept freezing and wouldnt allow her access to the SBS online 
site. There were also problems in that the screen of the phone appeared too small to allow 
Ms L to see the online log on screen. SBS told us that they did not at that time have an app 
for mobile phones. In my experience - to use a mobile to try to access online services in the 
same way as a desktop can lead to difficulties. Normally, an app is needed  as this is 
designed for use with smart phones. So  it seems to me that SBS might have told Ms L that 
the problem lay with her using her phone and couldve recommended the use of a desktop. That said, Im not certain that wouldve resolved Ms Ls issues as she told SBS she didnt 
want to use her home desktop; and SBS had also (correctly) advised her not to use a public 
computer for banking services. But as SBS didnt advise Ms L not to use her mobile    I 
agree that compensation of £100 is appropriate.
On Ms Ls complaint about Saturday service when she phoned a branch  I cant comment 
on that as SBS have said there werent any recorded calls to a branch on a Saturday. So  I 
cant consider this point any further.
Ms L has gone on to say that there was a cover up at SBS for what went on. She says there 
were corrupt practices at SBS. Im not sure exactly what she alleges here, but I assume she 
is saying 1) that SBSs systems were flawed and 2) that senior management didnt address 
her complaint fairly. So, Ive considered these points.
On the first point, Ive established that SBS online systems did work  for the vast majority 
of customers on the days on question. And the CEO has said that customer feedback is very 
positive. So  I discount what Ms L possibly alleges here.
On the second point, I found no evidence of a cover up. The responses from senior 
management and from the CEO were consistent with each other and with what I saw 
internally within SBS. I saw evidence that SBS members of staff were trying to resolve Ms 
Ls problems by internal discussion and by taking advice from the IT department. So, for 
example, the data showing Ms Ls failed log ons was shown in the IT department in the 
same way as it was put to Ms L by senior management and the CEO. So, I dont agree with 
what Ms L alleges in that respect.
It's unfortunate that Ms L could not get her problems resolved. SBS shouldve advised her 
not to use her mobile phone or established at an earlier stage that her mobile was likely the 
cause of the problems. But apart from that, I think SBS did all they could to get Ms L access 
to their online services, and in a courteous and patient manner. But I uphold her complaint 
and ask SBS to pay compensation of £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Swansea Building Society must:
- Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman