DRN-3972098
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Santander UK Plcs actions when they stopped her cheques and 
blocked her account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 January 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so 
far, I intend to partially uphold it, so there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 6 February 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Santander UK Plcs actions when they stopped her cheques and
blocked her account.
What happened
In June 2022, Mrs G issued two cheques to pay for services she received. However,
Santander fraud detection system flagged concerns about these cheques.
Santander say they tried to discuss their concerns with Mrs G on 11 July 2022. But, as she
wouldnt speak to them, they stopped the cheques, placed a temporary block on her account
and sent her a letter.
When Mrs G visited a branch on 14 July 2022, because she was told a cheque had
bounced, she was worried she had been scammed and her money was gone. Mrs G says
she requested £100 cash and information on why the cheque had bounced, however she
wasnt given an explanation and was told she couldnt have cash as her account had been
blocked.
Mrs G says although she showed a mini statement, obtained by using her PIN, she was
required to show identity documents and felt like she was being treated like a criminal. Mrs G
describes how she was anxious about the cheques and not being able to function without
access to her bank account. Also, she was extremely upset at the way she was treated by
Santander staff who called the police, and this left her feeling humiliated.
Santander say that they were concerned Mrs G was being scammed, that it was difficult to
speak to Mrs G and they called the police because she became hysterical.
Mrs G came back to the branch on another day and says Santander again called the police.
Santander say this was because Mrs G was aggressive.
Mrs G complained to Santander about events including her account being blocked.
Santander didnt want to lift the block until they could be sure Mrs G wasnt being scammed.
They explained that their concerns and actions were in line with current processes and
procedures and apologised for any upset caused.
Mrs G complained to our service and our investigator wasnt persuaded that Santander
needed to take any further action.
As Mrs G remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator and I intend to uphold this
complaint.
Firstly, from a review of the file, Im satisfied that Mrs G had characteristics of vulnerability
according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance on this topic.
I then considered if Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably in stopping the two
cheques and blocking Mrs Gs account. Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly and
reasonably here. Santanders system, checks and measures are part of ongoing processes
to reduce fraud and scams. It protects customers and is something that can happen under
the terms and conditions of the account. Also, I can see that Santander attempted to discuss
their concerns with Mrs G prior to taking action.
I appreciate such actions will often be inconvenient for customers, but that doesnt mean that
Santander is wrong to carry them out. In addition, as pointed out by the investigator, in an
effort to prevent financial crime the FCA, who is the regulator, requires banks to take
reasonable steps to ensure this.
Regarding Mrs Gs complaint that she was humiliated by Santander through disproportionate
action in calling the police on two separate occasions. I asked Santander if they could
provide me with the CCTV footage of Mrs Gs branch visits as this would provide footage of
the events that took place in July and August 2022.
Unfortunately, Santander only hold this for three months and they did not retrieve it. I found
this surprising as Mrs G raised her complaint in the same month the events occurred. And I
have to reach a decision, about whether their action was proportionate, based on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
When describing her distress and anxiety, Mrs G says she had to make a scene to get her
account unblocked and there are notes from different Santander staff members commenting
on Mrs G shouting and behaviour that was rude, aggressive and hysterical. Also, there are
file notes which confirm Mrs G was causing a disturbance and Santander were concerned
about Mrs Gs well-being. So, although it is difficult to say whether Santanders actions in
calling the police were proportionate, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs G displayed
the behaviour described by Santander. And, although I considered Mrs Gs vulnerability, I
think there was a reasonable justification for Santander to call the police.
However, although I think its likely there was a justification, I feel Santander couldve done
more to diffuse the situation before it escalated and they found it necessary to take such a
serious course of action that could result in a customer feeling humiliated.Mrs G was upset she couldnt take out £100 cash and a Santander letter, dated 11 July
2022, which she belatedly received, said you can still use your card for purchases and
cash. So, although I appreciate Mrs G didnt have identity documents, I think the exception
to let Mrs G have the cash she wanted, shouldve been made at an earlier time. This is
because file notes suggest Mrs G had been verified as the account holder prior to the
situation escalating. Also, Mrs G was distressed about not being able to access her money
and Santander needed to establish whether or not she was a victim of a scam at the earliest
opportunity.
Finally, Mrs G has submitted Santander letters which are inaccurate. These were letters
dated 12 July 2022 that said she had contacted Santander to request that the cheques be
stopped. Considering the circumstances here, I can see how these letters caused Mrs Gs
distress and frustration.
Considering all the above I think Santander couldve done more to prevent this situation
escalating into a humiliating experience for Mrs G. Also, they shouldve sent accurate letters.
So, Im partially upholding this complaint and awarding Mrs G £100 compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this
complaint.
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs G £100 compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 6 February
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
I received comments from both parties.
Santander said they reviewed the information and have nothing further to add.
Mrs G made a number of comments. In summary she:
Explained that in addition to further compensation she wants action to be taken 
against Santander, so other customers dont have a similar experience
Questioned why Santander hadnt contacted her about their concerns over the two 
cheques 
Expressed dissatisfaction with Santanders actions
Described the inconvenience, hardship and ordeal experienced 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and, in light of the above comments, I further reviewed the 
file.
Firstly, I should explain this services role isnt to punish a business, or to reprimand it. And
we cant require a business to alter its processes. I say this because we arent the regulatorof the financial services industry and our role is to consider each individual case. Also, where
we think a business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to
decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a
consumer has experienced.
Regarding Mrs Gs dissatisfaction that Santander didnt contact her to discuss their concerns 
about the two cheques, there is evidence in the form of contact notes which indicate that this 
is what Santander tried to do. These notes indicate that Mrs G had concerns about 
answering identification and verification questions and Santander were unfortunately unable 
to speak with her.
As Santander were unable to discuss their concerns with Mrs G, Im satisfied that their 
actions to stop the cheques, write to Mrs G and place a temporary block on her account 
were fair and reasonable. This is because Santanders system, checks and measures are 
part of ongoing processes to reduce fraud and scams. It is something that can happen under
the terms and conditions of the account and Im satisfied they were trying to protect Mrs G. 
Also, banks are required by their regulator to take steps to prevent financial crime and I think 
this action was reasonable. 
Although the letters took several days to arrive, I have to bear in mind Santander rely on the 
postal service and, in this case, it wasnt long after the attempted call that Mrs G visited the 
branch.
I can understand the shock Mrs G experienced when she visited the branch and, from 
reviewing the file, Im satisfied that Santander did try to speak to her and provide assistance 
and support.
 
For the reasons mentioned in my provisional decision, I think it is more likely than not that 
due to her anxiety and upset Mrs G displayed the behaviour which Santander described as 
rude, aggressive and hysterical. And, although its difficult to say whether Santanders 
actions in calling the police were proportionate, I think there was a reasonable justification 
for those actions. And this includes concerns over a potential scam and Mrs Gs 
vulnerability.
However, although I think its likely there was a justification, I still feel Santander couldve 
done more to diffuse the situation before it escalated, and they found it necessary to take 
such a serious course of action that could result in a customer feeling humiliated.
Finally, there is evidence that Santanders letters dated 12 July 2022 were inaccurate. They 
said Mrs G had contacted Santander to request that the cheques be stopped. So, 
considering the circumstances here, I think these letters caused Mrs Gs additional distress 
and frustration.
Considering the above Im still partially upholding this complaint and I think £100 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. This is because I think Santander couldve done more 
to prevent this situation escalating into a humiliating experience for Mrs G. Also, they 
shouldve sent accurate letters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.  
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs G £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman