DRN-4291249
The complaint
Mr S and Ms A complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
avoided their home insurance policy following a claim for storm damage.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr S and Ms A bought a property which they insured with Chaucer. Once 
the sale went through they visited the property and found there had been some recent 
damage to the roof caused by bad weather. They made a claim and Chaucer sent a loss 
adjuster to inspect the property.
Chaucer subsequently said it was going to avoid Mr S and Ms As policy back to inception  
cancel it as if it never existed. It said Mr S and Ms A had made a number of 
misrepresentations when they took the policy out, and if it had had the correct information, it 
wouldnt have offered the policy. It said this included the fact that the property was in a poor 
state of repair and that Mr S and Ms A didnt occupy the property straight away. However it 
said it would return the policy premiums they had paid. 
Mr S and Ms A didnt think this was fair. They disagreed that the property was in a poor state 
of repair. They said it was in a good condition for its age and that they were able to occupy 
the whole property comfortably, with the exception of two rooms. They also said that while 
they intended to occupy the property immediately, they delayed this because of the damage 
to the roof that happened after theyd purchased it. 
They made a complaint, but Chaucer maintained its position to avoid the policy. So they 
brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said while he was 
persuaded that Mr S and Ms A had intended to move into the property immediately initially, 
he didnt think theyd answered the question about whether the property was in a good state 
of repair accurately. And, under the relevant law, Chaucer was entitled to avoid their policy 
and return the policy premiums paid which it had done.
Mr S and Ms A didnt agree. They said that only two rooms out of 17 were unliveable so this 
wouldnt reasonably amount to the property being in a poor state of repair. And most of the 
property just needed light redecoration. He also said the previous owners were a family and 
lived in it comfortably and it was only the storm damage that meant it required more 
significant repairs. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chaucer has said that it considers Mr S and Ms A to have made a misrepresentation when 
they took out the policy with it. And that it wouldnt have offered the policy if they had 
provided correct information.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a  
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be  
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Chaucer has said there are a number of things they believe Mr S and Ms A didnt answer 
correctly at inception. However in order to avoid the policy, it only needs to prove that one of 
these was a qualifying misrepresentation. I have therefore started by considering just one of 
the alleged misrepresentations  the propertys state of repair. 
When the policy was taken out, Mr S and Ms A were asked to agree that the following 
statement was true:
My property is in a good state of repair
Once the policy was agreed to, they were further sent paperwork that again stated as 
follows:
The property is in a good state of repair Yes
Ive looked at the information, photos and commentary provided by both sides about the 
property. I can see that there are some rooms and areas of the property that are in a very 
poor state, appear significantly neglected and require substantial renovation to get them to a 
good standard. I also note that there are some rooms and areas that are in a good state of 
repair. 
However I have to consider whether a reasonable person would consider the property as a 
whole to be in a good state of repair, and from what Ive seen I dont agree they would. I 
think a reasonable interpretation of the term good state of repair would mean that the 
property doesnt require significant renovation or redecoration. And from the photos and 
comment Ive seen, I dont agree Mr S and Ms As property met this.
Further, in the report from the loss adjuster who attended the property, it provides a link to 
the advert for the property while it was being sold online. While Ive not been able to view 
this online advert, as it has since been removed, the loss adjuster goes on to quote it in his 
report, saying:
The estate agent details say the house requires complete renovation, a restoration 
project
From this, I think its clear that the property wouldnt be reasonably described as in a good 
state of repair. And, Mr S and Ms A should have been reasonably aware of this when they 
bought it. 
Mr S has said that both him and Ms A have been able to live in the property very comfortably 
since theyve moved in. And that a family occupied it right up until they bought it. However this doesnt persuade me that the property is in a good state of repair. The property being 
habitable is a different consideration to whether its in a good state of repair. So a property 
in a poor state of repair could very well be liveable, it would just require work to get it to a 
good standard. And from what Ive seen here, while the property was liveable it did require 
substantial work. 
Based on this, I agree with Chaucer that Mr S and Ms A made a misrepresentation when 
they took out the policy. 
I now need to consider if the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. To do this, I have to 
consider whether if Mr S and Ms A hadnt made the misrepresentation, Chaucer would have 
offered the same policy cover on the same terms.
Chaucer has provided a copy of its underwriting guidance. And from this, I can see that if Mr 
S and Ms A had told it that the property was in a poor state of repair then it would have 
declined to offer cover at all. So Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
And Chaucer are entitled to avoid their policy. 
Under CIDRA a qualifying misrepresentation is either deliberate, reckless or careless. And 
the available remedy will depend on which one of these categories the misrepresentation 
falls into. It is for the insurer to prove that a misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless. 
Otherwise it is considered careless.
Here, Chaucer has said that it considers the misrepresentation to have been careless. And I 
agree this is a fair assessment. 
CIDRA says where a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred, and it is considered 
careless then the insurer may avoid the policy but must return the policy premiums to its 
customer. As Chaucer has already done this, I think it has acted fairly and reasonably and in 
line with the relevant law. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
As Im satisfied Chaucer made a fair decision based on the misrepresentation regarding the 
propertys state of repair, Ive not considered any of the other issues it raised about 
information provided at the inception of the policy. As, under CIDRA, it is able to avoid the 
policy based on just one misrepresentation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S and Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman