DRN-2176121
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd (trading as Cashplus) blocked his 
card twice within a short period of time due to suspected fraud. As a result, Mr G requested 
to close his account, which Cashplus didnt do. Mr G complains that Cashplus has offered 
poor service and communication throughout.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 14 August 2020. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to comment on my initial thoughts, as long as I got their responses by 12 
September 2020. Ive included my provisional findings below, so I wont repeat that 
information here. But in summary, I said that Cashplus had made errors in dealing with 
Mr G, and had made the process of dealing with the complaint much longer than it needed to 
be.  
On 9 September 2020 our investigator reminded Cashplus of the response deadline. 
Cashplus still hasnt responded, so I have assumed it has nothing further to add.
Mr G responded and accepted my provisional findings.
My provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said:
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all of 
them here. But Ill provide a summary of the key milestones, and then Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my current intention to uphold the complaint.
Mr Gs account was blocked by Cashplus on 2 July 2019 due to a suspected 
compromise of his details. Cashplus called him but didnt manage to speak to him, 
and it left a brief message for him to call back. Mr G didnt return the call, which he 
says is because Cashplus didnt give a reason for the call in the message it left. 
Cashplus called Mr G again on 4 July 2019 to explain the situation. It explained that 
a new card would need to be ordered, and it would arrive in 3-5 days. But Mr G 
received his new card on the same day. Mr G is concerned that the Cashplus 
representative wasnt aware of that card order when he spoke to it.
Mr Gs account was blocked again on 11 July 2019, for a similar reason. I cant see 
that Cashplus attempted to notify Mr G of this block, but he was told during a phone 
call on 16 July 2019 when he called Cashplus to raise the issue. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied with the situation and told Cashplus that he didnt want to receive a 
replacement card. Instead he said he wanted to close his account.
Cashplus says it offered to close the account during the phone call. Mr G says that 
he was initially told this wouldnt be possible, but the agent he spoke to then offered 
to transfer him to a colleague who could complete the request. Mr G explained that 
he would write a letter to Cashplus to express his dissatisfaction and request the 
closure. Mr G says that during that call he was told he couldnt close his account in 
writing; it had to be done by phone.
Cashplus didnt close Mr Gs account following his letter and it sent him a response 
to his complaint in August 2019. In that letter it explained that it wasnt able to close 
the account as it had a credit balance, and it asked Mr G to provide details of where 
to transfer the balance to. Cashplus says it didnt receive a response from Mr G, but 
Mr G has provided a copy of the response he sent to Cashplus, which this service 
has provided to Cashplus again.
Mr Gs account still hasnt been closed. Our investigator recommended that 
Cashplus should refund any fees that have been applied to the account since Mr Gs 
first request to close it in July 2019. She also recommended that Cashplus pay Mr G 
£100 compensation for the service hes received. Cashplus didnt agree. It said the 
fact that Mr G continued to credit his account prevented it from closing the account.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, but 
Ive decided things need to be put right differently. Ill explain why.
I note that Mr Gs initial frustration stemmed from the fact that his account was 
blocked twice as a result of suspected fraud. And he has complained that Cashplus 
hasnt provided evidence of this. 
I do understand that Mr G would like to know more about the suspected fraud, 
especially as it happened twice in fairly short succession. But I dont think its 
unreasonable for a financial institution to have systems in place which automatically 
block an account where it suspects fraud. Although I know it can be inconvenient, I 
dont think that makes it wrong, or unfair. And whilst I note that Cashplus hasnt 
given any further information on the suspected fraudulent transactions, I dont think 
that makes a difference in this case, because I think its very unlikely that it wouldve 
blocked the account without a reason, even if it later turned out to be a false alarm.
Turning to the issue around account closure, Cashplus hasnt provided a copy of its 
process for closing an account, despite our investigator requesting it. Nor has it 
provided any further information about what happened, other than referring the 
investigator to the accounts terms and conditions. So Ive listened to the call 
between Mr G and Cashplus from 16 July 2019, and Ive used the terms and 
conditions to establish whether I think Cashplus acted fairly when Mr G requested to 
close his account. 
During the phone call, Mr G requests to cancel the account. The Cashplus 
representative tells Mr G that shed have to transfer him to a different department in 
order to complete the request. Mr G doesnt accept this and explains that hed write 
in to Cashplus to request the closure. Hes told that the request cant be completed 
in this way, which he contests, and he asks for an address to write to. Hes told 
again that a closure request cant be taken in writing, although the representative 
does provide him with a postal address to write to. 
The terms and conditions for the account state:
12.2 You have the right to:(ii) close Your Account at any other time. To do this You can write by letter or email 
or call Customer Services. Note: We will wait 10 days for transactions to be 
processed. Once all transactions and fees have been deducted, any balance on 
Your Account will be returned to You subject to You having provided satisfactory 
confirmation of Your identity and address (where applicable). As this process may 
take up to 30 days You may prefer to withdraw funds by ATM or by making 
purchases. A cancellation fee will apply (see Fee Summary) unless i) the 
cancellation occurs 6 months or more after opening Your Account, ii) We have 
terminated Your right to use the Account or iii) the Account closure follows a change 
in these Terms and Conditions.
Having considered this, Mr G was clearly given incorrect information about how to 
close the account during the phone call on 16 July 2019. And Cashplus shouldve 
accepted Mr Gs letter dated 22 July 2019 to close his account. Although Cashplus 
says the account wasnt closed because it had a credit balance, its terms and 
conditions state that any balance on Your Account will be returned to You. Theres 
no mention that the closure wouldnt be completed if theres an outstanding credit 
balance, or if the customer fails to provide alternative bank details. 
Cashplus says that the terms and conditions state that the account closure would 
take up to 30 days from instruction. And it says that this didnt happen because Mr G 
continued to fund his account with £5 a month, so this prevented the account being 
closed. I dont accept that the terms and conditions state that the closure would take 
30 days  but instead, returning the balance may take up to 30 days. In any case, 
the fact remains that the account was not closed within 30 days of the instruction, 
regardless whether Mr G continued to fund the account or not. The balance, whether 
it had increased or remained the same, should have been returned to Mr G at the 
point of closure, and within 30 days, in line with the conditions of the account. As this 
didnt happen, I think Cashplus acted unfairly, and outside of its own terms and 
conditions.
I also note that Mr G continued to fund the account with only £5 a month after 
Cashpluss response to his complaint  which covered the monthly fee Cashplus 
charged whilst the account was still open. Its understandable that Mr G wouldve 
been worried about the fee taking his account into an overdraft, for the impact this 
couldve had on his credit rating, as well as because this almost certainly wouldve 
prevented the account being closed. 
Having reviewed everything, including how Cashplus has reacted to Mr Gs concerns 
directly to him, and to this service, I fully understand the frustrations Mr G has 
expressed. Cashplus has failed to provide information requested on a number of 
occasions, and it has failed to respond in a timely manner throughout the lifespan of 
the complaint with us. Im also disappointed that Cashplus refused to accept our 
investigators view as it believed the error was caused by Mr Gs stubbornness, 
although it doesnt appear to have adhered to its own terms and conditions. 
Whilst I acknowledge that I havent listed all of Mr Gs complaint points, Ive focussed 
on the most relevant issues that need to be put right. Ive seen that Mr G says he 
also purchased a subscription to a credit score checking service, for £14.99 per 
month, which he believes Cashplus should refund. But Im not going to tell Cashplus 
to do that. Although I understand the frustration, this was Mr Gs choice, and hes 
provided other information to show that most of his credit file information was 
available to him free of charge without the subscription hes mentioned. That said, 
Ive increased the amount of compensation that Cashplus needs to pay overall, in 
recognition of the distress that led to Mr G signing up to the subscription.
I understand that Mr G is concerned that Cashplus continued to report to the credit 
reference agencies that his account was open, although hed requested to close it. 
Whilst I accept that the account shouldve been closed, as it wasnt, it remains that 
the reporting on Cashpluss part needs to be factual  which it is. And I havent seen that Cashplus has reported any negative information, so I dont think this will 
adversely affect Mr G. 
Its clear that the initial error made by Cashplus, plus its unhelpful response to the 
complaint and delays in dealing with it, have made this situation a lot more stressful 
and drawn-out than it needed to be. 
It follows that I intend to uphold this complaint and if I do decide to uphold it, Ill 
require Cashplus to do the following to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been made aware of any further information since I issued my 
provisional decision. As Cashplus didnt respond, and Mr G accepted what I said, I see no 
reason for me to depart from my initial conclusions.
It follows that I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right and to make up for its failings, Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd must:
Refund any fees applied to Mr Gs account after 22 July 2020;
Return any credit balance to Mr G*;
Pay Mr G £200 for the trouble and upset the situation has caused;
Close all accounts Mr G holds and update the credit reference agencies accordingly.
Write to Mr G to confirm it has taken the above action.
*Details for payment can be found in the accompanying cover letter
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and I require 
Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd (trading as Cashplus) to do what Ive set out above to put 
things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman