DRN-3308610
The complaint
Mr M, as Trustee of the M Trust, complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) set 
up a Family Income Life Plan (the policy) without his permission. As Mr M is the trustee and 
the settlor, Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
In September 2009, Mr M met with a Halifax adviser in branch. He said that he was 
interested in increasing his mortgage repayments. Mr M has said he and his wife were asked 
about protection policies and he agreed it could provide a quote. More recently, Mr M found 
he had been paying for a policy that he didnt think hed taken out. Mr M complained that 
Halifax had set up a policy without his permission and hasnt been able to provide any 
signed agreement or direct debit mandate to support that he consented to the policy. He also 
says that it got his employment details wrong and the policy was unsuitable as he had Death 
in Service (DIS) benefits.
Halifax said that Mr M had received advice based on information he had given it. It said Mr M 
told it he didnt have any other protection in place and this policy was set up and placed into 
trust after Mr M accepted it.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that the point of 
sale documents showed that Mr M didnt have any DIS benefits with his employer. He said 
that evidence showed Halifax sent Mr M the relevant documents, a direct debit mandate had 
been completed and that the trust documents had been signed by Mr M. So, he thinks on 
balance that Mr M did take this policy out and that it was suitable.
Mr M provided additional information about his employment at the time. Our Investigator 
agreed that this showed he had recently changed employer at the time of advice and had a 
DIS benefit at the time. But said the recommendation Halifax made was based on 
information Mr M gave it at the time, and it was suitable based on this. He said he didnt 
think there was anything to show that Mr M hadnt taken this policy out.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. He said that he only 
signed for a quote to be valid for 12 months, not for a policy to be put in place. He said the 
information isnt correct and as there is no signed policy document or direct debit mandate, 
there cant be a policy in place. So, hes asked for a full refund of premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly that he didnt take this policy out, but Ive reached the 
same outcome as the investigator for similar reasons. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M so Ill explain why Ive come to this outcome.
Did Mr M take the policy out?
I first want to address Mr Ms point that he only signed for a quote, and that he never 
consented to the policy being put in place. I understand Mr M is sure this was the case, but 
Ive had to look at the evidence I have from 2009, when the policy was sold, to determine 
what I think is likely to have happened. From the evidence, I think its likely Mr M took the 
policy out.
I say this because a full financial review was carried out using information Halifax couldve 
only got from Mr M. After this, recommendations were made to take out the policy and this 
was sent to Mr M in a letter. I can see that a direct debit mandate was completed. Whilst this 
wasnt signed, it had Mr Ms details in it. I can also see that Mr M signed a Bare Trust 
document  writing his policy into trust for his wife. This document had his signature on it, as 
well as the policy number and application date  six days after the initial advice. So, I think 
its likely from this that Mr M had decided to accept the advice and take the policy.
Mr M has been sent the documents, including the trust document. Hes said he only signed 
this to keep a quote valid. But the document makes no mention of a quote, it talks about the 
policy and how it will be held in trust. So, Im not persuaded that Mr M was only giving 
Halifax permission to generate a quote. I think its likely that Mr M accepted the policy and 
took it out.
Was the policy suitable?
The fact-find that Halifax completed had information about Mr M on it. It recorded that he 
was employed but had no DIS benefit and was interested in taking out protection for his 
family should he pass away, as he had two young children. It was discussed that the 
protection should be in place until his youngest child turned 21 years old.
Halifax recommended a Family Income Life Plan which would pay £500 per month if Mr M 
passed away during the term of the policy. The policy was set to run for 21 years. From the 
information that Halifax had on Mr M, this policy wasnt unsuitable. It provided cover that he 
wanted for a suitable term.
The issue is that Mr M has told us he did have DIS benefits. And that his employment 
information on the fact-find is incorrect. Hes since provided evidence of this so I can see this 
is the case. However, the information completed by Halifax in 2009 was based on 
information Mr M gave. It was sent to Mr M and I think he couldve corrected Halifax when he 
saw that it had listed the employer he no longer worked for, and that he had no benefits. I 
cant see he did this.
I must also say that the presence of employee benefits doesnt necessarily make this policy 
unsuitable. This policy was taken out for 21 years to provide a regular income to Mr Ms 
family if he passed away. Employee benefits arent guaranteed, neither is Mr Ms 
employment. So, whilst I appreciate he may have had a DIS benefit at the time, this didnt 
make the recommendation to take out a 21 year Family Income Life Plan unsuitable. The 
policy wouldve meant his family received a regular income if he passed away, regardless of 
Mr Ms employer and benefits.
Overall I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr M, and I think it was 
recommended based on information Mr M provided Halifax at the time. Although that 
information has since been shown to be dated, the recommendation was sent to Mr M and 
he had the opportunity to point out that it was incorrect when he received it. I also think its 
likely Mr M agreed to put this policy in place. So, I dont think Halifax should refund his 
premiums.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M as trustee of 
the M Trust to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman