The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain they were given incorrect information about their decreasing term 
assurance by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Because of this they believe they were 
likely given incorrect information many years previous and had they not, they would have 
cancelled the policy in 2003. 
What happened
In 1996 Mr and Mrs P took out a decreasing terms assurance policy with Sun Life (now 
Aviva).  The policy was set up with an initial sum assured of £58,500 with a term of 25 years. 
The policy assumed a mortgage interest rate of 7% and the sum payable on death 
decreased in line with the mortgage. 
In 2003, Aviva's records show a call was made to query the sum assured and the lives 
assured. And in 2011 policy details were sent and confirmation given the policy was a 
mortgage protection plan. I understand Mr and Mrs repaid the mortgage the policy was taken 
out to protect in 2018.
In 2019, Mrs P contacted Aviva on several occasions for details of this and another policy 
held. Mrs P was unsure about whether to keep this policy going. It was confirmed this policy 
covered their lives but it wasn't clear if it accrued a value and so the call handler requested 
details to be sent.  It was also confirmed in a separate call the policy would repay £58,500 
on death. However, this was incorrect as the policy was a decreasing policy. When Mrs P 
received the policy details confirming this, she complained she'd been given incorrect 
information and would have cancelled the policy sooner had the right information been 
given.
Aviva upheld the complaint in part. It agreed it had provided incorrect information in 2019 
and accepted Mr and Mrs P would have cancelled the policy. So it refunded the two monthly 
payments made since and paid £100 for the inconvenience the error had caused. But as it 
no longer had any records of the calls that took place in 2003 or 2011, it didn't refund 
anything further.  
Our investigator concluded Aviva had already fairly resolved the complaint. Mr and Mrs P 
remain unhappy with the outcome and feel Aviva have been unprofessional and inadequate 
in its response. 
The complaint was allocated to me. I noted from Aviva's file that Mrs P had indicated she 
had a letter setting out the policy would have a value if it grew at 7%. I asked for a copy of 
the letter which Mrs P provided. She acknowledges the letter refers to a decreasing policy 
but says she was told on more than one occasion that it was £58,500.  
DRN-1238047What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The paperwork that Mr and Mrs P completed during the sale show they applied for a 
decreasing term assurance policy. And Mrs P acknowledges the paperwork she received 
more recently also confirms the policy was decreasing. I have listened to the calls she had 
with Aviva about this and in one call a handler incorrectly refers to the sum assured payable 
as £58,500. In the other calls, the handlers only refer to a payment being made on death but 
not what that payment would be. I also note in one call, a call handler thought a surrender 
value might be applicable but as no values were showing details would be requested. And 
as Mr and Mrs P know, the policy doesn't actually accrue a value. 
Aviva accepts Mr and Mrs P were provided with the incorrect information. And it accepts 
they would have cancelled the policy sooner had the correct information been provided. So 
its right that Aviva refunded the two premium payments made following that - something I 
would have asked it to do had it not already done so. I also find the compensation payment 
of £100 to be a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused by the incorrect information;   Mrs 
P called on several occasions, requested policy information and two monthly payments were 
made that otherwise wouldn't have been. 
Mrs P believes as she was given incorrect information in 2019, she was probably given 
incorrect information previously when querying the policy in 2003 and 2011. I do accept it is 
possible. But that doesn't mean it was likely or that it happened. Aviva no longer has the 
phone calls, which isn't surprising given the passage of time. And the notes about the calls 
are very limited and don't really shed any light on what amounts were given.
I can only uphold a complaint if I find a business has done something wrong. I'm not 
persuaded Mrs P's testimony about what might have happened during calls so many years 
ago is persuasive, such that I would find Aviva had done something wrong. And even if I did, 
as the mortgage had been repaid a year prior to the calls, I find they would have kept the 
policy in any event; it was still doing what it was originally taken out for - protecting the 
mortgage in the event of death. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I find that Aviva has already fairly resolved 
this complaint and I don't require it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman