DRN-1841178
 
The complaint
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has refused to allow 
them to transfer their lifetime equity release mortgage onto a property of their choice. As a 
result they have had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) which they consider to be 
unfair.
Mr and Mrs Hs son has brought the complaint on their behalf, but for ease of reference I will 
refer to Mr and Mrs H throughout.
What happened
The background to the complaint is set out in detail in the correspondence between Mr and 
Mrs H and Aviva, as well as the letters from our investigator. Given this, I wont set out the 
full details of whats happened, but will summarise briefly what led up to the complaint being 
brought.
Mr and Mrs H have a lifetime equity release mortgage taken out in 2003 with a business 
which is now known as Aviva. They borrowed £37,500 and, in common with this type of loan, 
no repayments are required to be made; instead interest rolls up over the course of the loan. 
The total debt is repayable upon the death of the last surviving borrower, when the last 
surviving borrower has to leave the property due to going into long-term care (as defined by 
Aviva in its terms and conditions and based on Association of British Insurers (ABI) criteria) 
or on voluntary sale of the property.
An ERC is payable if the property is sold voluntarily during the lifetime of the borrowers, but 
wont be charged if the sale is because one of the borrowers needs to move into long-term 
care. The ERC is based on a calculation related to gilt yields, as set out in Clause 8 of the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
The mortgage is portable  that is, it can be transferred  either in whole or in part - onto 
another property, providing that property meets Avivas lending criteria. 
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs H decided to move to another property, a retirement property in a 
new-build development, and transfer the mortgage onto that property. The property didnt 
meet Avivas lending criteria, and so the request was declined. Aviva explained this to Mr 
and Mrs H. Aviva said that it would lend on certain retirement properties, but not this 
particular type. Mr and Mrs H were sent details of the properties on which Aviva would lend.
Mr and Mrs H decided to go ahead with their purchase in any event. They were able to 
arrange a lifetime mortgage from another provider to repay their mortgage to Aviva 
(including the ERC). Mr and Mrs H complained to Aviva that it had acted unreasonably in declining the 
application. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint so it was brought to us where an investigator 
looked at it.
The investigator explained that Aviva had the right to decide which properties it would lend 
on, and that it had given Mr and Mrs H reasons why the property they were buying didnt 
meet its criteria. The investigator was also satisfied that, although the move to the new 
property was to make Mr Hs day-to-day living easier, the level of care Mr H needed didnt 
meet the ABI definition, which is the criteria Aviva used.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I also have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this decision that might identify Mr 
and Mrs H, or where they live.
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of Aviva. In other words, I have to decide if Aviva took into 
account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its 
decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions Aviva 
made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
Aviva is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Aviva makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for Avivas 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. Additionally in deciding whether to 
lend to Mr and Mrs H, Aviva is entitled to take account of its own interests when making such 
decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the interests of the borrower.
As I said above, I am not setting out each and every event that took place during the 
application process. In the light of what Ive said above, I dont need to. 
Aviva said that it does, in fact, lend on retirement properties, including those constructed by 
this particular developer, provided those properties meet its lending criteria. In this case, the 
property did not meet lending criteria, for a number of reasons.Having looked at the way in which Aviva considered the request to transfer the mortgage, 
Im satisfied that it took into account all relevant factors before declining the application. 
Aviva explained that the specific property Mr and Mrs H wanted to buy didnt meet its lending 
criteria, and it provided its reasons. 
I accept what Mr and Mrs H have said  that Mr H does need some day-to-day care. But the 
level of care doesnt meet the ABI criteria which would allow a waiver of the ERC. Indeed, 
although this particular developer offers some properties which allow residents to have 
support with health needs, the property to which Mr and Mrs H were moving was not one of 
those. It is in a development where residents are expected to live independently.
I note Mr and Mrs H were able to arrange another lifetime mortgage with an alternative 
provider so they could complete their move. The fact that another lender has different criteria 
from Aviva doesnt mean Aviva has done anything wrong in declining to lend on this 
particular property. As I said above, Avivas entitled to set its own lending criteria, and in this 
case the property Mr and Mrs H wanted to buy didnt meet those criteria.
I appreciate it was disappointing for Mr and Mrs H that they had to pay the ERC when they 
repaid their Aviva mortgage. But in all the circumstances, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt done 
anything wrong. Aviva gave fair consideration to the application and, having done so, was 
entitled to decline the request to transfer the mortgage onto a property which didnt meet its 
requirements.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman