DRN-1674723
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy because Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) terminated a claim
he made on his personal sick pay policy.
What happened
Mr G successfully claimed on his personal sick pay policy following an accident at work. He
injured his ankle and LV accepted the claim and paid it. LV stopped paying the claim in
October 2017. Mr G made a complaint to LV as he says he isnt able to work.
As part of a separate complaint LV acknowledged they should have paid the claim up until
Mr G had been seen by an Independent Medical Examiner (IME) and paid Mr G £100
compensation as a result. But, ultimately, in relation to this complaint they said their decision
to decline the claim was fair because there was no objective evidence that Mr G was
incapacitated. Unhappy, Mr G complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She
didnt think it was unreasonable for LV to stop paying the claim on the basis of the available
medical evidence.
Mr G didnt agree because he said the medical examiner wasnt objective and was biased.
He explained that what the medical examiner said to him at the time was different to what he
said in the report. Mr G also said he was unhappy because LV hadnt paid for his treatment
or flights back to the UK for doctors appointments. Hes also unhappy with the overall
customer service he received. So I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV accepted there was a valid claim following Mr Gs accident at work. So, the key issue in
this complaint is whether it was reasonable for them to stop paying the benefit in October
2017. LV says that the medical evidence suggests Mr G wasnt incapacitated, Mr G says he
was.
The policy says that personal sick pay will be paid when the policyholder is too unwell to
carry out the main tasks of their occupation. It says that main tasks means the things which
cant reasonably be left out of the policyholders role or changed by their employer.
Im not upholding this complaint because:
LVs medical officer expected Mr G to recover around six weeks after his injury but
he was off for much longer than that. So I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to
request a report given that the recovery time was taking longer than expected
The IME carried out an in-person assessment and a range of tests to assess Mr Gs 
functionality. He took into account Mr Gs role and the main tasks his job required
him to do. I think that was reasonable as LV needed to understand whether Mr G
was unable to work as a result of his injury
The IME concluded that Mr Gs symptoms didnt fit with a recognised
musculoskeletal clinical pattern and that it appeared non-physical factors were
significantly influencing Mr Gs behaviour. He also said that there were no
remarkable objective findings during his examination
I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to rely on the conclusions of a suitably
qualified expert to determine Mr Gs functionality. The IMEs report doesnt indicate
that there were any objective medical reasons why Mr G couldnt do his job. So I
dont think it was unreasonable for LV to conclude he didnt meet the policy definition
of incapacity
Mr G told us that the IME was biased and says that he referred to Mr G limping and
walking slowly during conversations on the day of the appointment. But thats not
reflected in his detailed report and the comments were made in a conversation
outside of the scope of the appointment when Mr G and the IME were on their way
back to the train station. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to rely on the
report rather than Mr Gs recollection of the informal conversation
Ive also taken into account the information provided by Mr G from his doctors who
were treating him abroad. But Im not persuaded its reasonable for LV to place more
weight on that information. The doctors relied heavily on Mr Gs reporting of his
condition and werent carrying out detailed assessments of Mr Gs functionality. So I
dont think it was unreasonable that LV placed less weight on this information
Mr Gs policy doesnt cover him for treatment or doctors appointments. Its a policy
which is designed to pay him sick pay if he cant work. So thats not something that
LV needs to pay for. Mr G also chose to seek treatment for his injury in another
country. Thats something hes entitled to do but I dont think its fair to say that LV
should cover the cost of the flights. Mr G took out the policy when he was living in
the UK and the job he was insured for was also in the UK too. So, whilst I can
understand why Mr G sought help from his family outside the UK, I dont think these
are costs LV needs to cover. And, whilst Mr G did experience some issues with the
service he received from LV, which theyve accepted this as part of a separate
complaint and awarded compensation for what went wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman