DRN-4363220
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
When Mr A and Mrs A were having work carried out at their property, a contractor found a 
hole in their roof. So, Mr A and Mrs A contacted AXA to make a claim for storm damage. 
They said they didnt know when the damage happened. AXA declined to register the claim 
because it said it couldnt do so without a specific date of loss. It said it needed this 
information to check the weather conditions and to check these met the policy definition for 
storm. It also said it couldnt confirm that it was the insurer at the time the damage might 
have happened. When Mr A and Mrs A complained, AXA maintained its decision but offered 
£25 as a goodwill gesture because of the delay in its response.
So, Mr A and Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said it was reasonable for AXA to require a date of loss to check the weather conditions 
around that time. Without the date, it also couldnt be confirmed who was the insurer at the 
time. It would also likely to be difficult to confirm the damage, due to deterioration because of 
the amount of time it had been left. He said it was reasonable that AXA didnt register a 
claim.
As Mr A and Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Mr A and Mrs A have said the damage happened at some point in a six-year period between 
1 February 2016 and 13 November 2022. Im aware that AXA wasnt Mr A and Mrs As 
insurer for that whole period. AXA would need a likely date to show it was the insurer at the 
time of the damage and also so that it could check whether there were storm conditions local 
to Mr A and Mrs A around that time. Without that information, I think it was reasonable that 
AXA said it couldnt consider the claim.
The onus is on a policyholder to show their claim is the result of a one-off insured event 
covered by the policy. In my view, Mr A and Mrs A havent done that here. They havent 
shown the damage was caused by a one-off storm that more likely than not happened while 
they were insured by AXA. Without that information, AXA didnt need to consider the claim. 
As I think the answer to the first question cant reasonably be answered yes with any 
certainty, it also means that I dont need to consider the other two questions.
So, having thought about what happened with this claim, I think it was reasonable that AXA 
declined to consider it. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman