DRN-3666300
The complaint
Miss D complains about delays by TSB Bank plc with her buy to let mortgage application. 
She asks for an apology, more transparency and better communication, compensation and a 
change in regulations to make lenders more pro-active.
What happened
Miss D applied to TSB via a broker for a buy to let mortgage in late 2021. TSB issued a 
mortgage offer on 11 November 2021. Miss D changed solicitors on 23 December 2021. 
TSB paused the application and asked for further information and documents. 
Miss D says TSB caused unreasonable delays, which delayed exchange of contracts. She 
says TSB asked for documents which it could have asked for previously. 
Miss D says this affected her financially as she lost a potential tenant and revenue. And it 
affected her mentally as she couldnt sleep or perform her usual work duties leading to her 
having to take time off work. Miss D says TSB doubted her integrity and honesty, 
discriminated against her due to her name and origins and neglected her human rights.
Our investigator said TSB was entitled to ask for more information. It didnt know Miss Ds 
broker was away from work until 7 January 2022, and it didnt cause any unnecessary 
delays after that. 
Miss D didnt agree. She said, in summary, that TSB should have asked for all the 
information it needed before issuing an offer. She said it failed to do its due diligence in a 
timely manner, which caused delays and further stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Miss D asked to speak to me. 
This isnt a normal part of our process, and having read the evidence I dont need to speak 
to Miss D to reach a fair outcome. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service. We arent regulators and dont have the powers 
of a regulator. I cant change the regulations that apply to lenders, or require lenders to 
change their lending criteria or processes. Lenders arent required to share their lending 
criteria or processes with customers as these can be commercially sensitive. 
That said, I can consider whether TSB treated Miss D fairly. 
TSB had issued a mortgage offer. Miss D says she was unhappy with the conveyancer shed 
instructed and she changed conveyancers on 23 December 2021. TSB sent the updated 
mortgage offer and instructions to the new conveyancer the next day. It put Miss Ds 
application on hold and asked Miss D for information and documents, which she provided. 
The mortgage offer was re-issued on 18 January 2022. The mortgage completed on 28 
January 2022. 
Miss D says this was too long. She said TSB should have completed its checks prior to 
issuing a mortgage offer on 11 November 2021. 
TSB hasnt told Miss D why it asked for further documents. It simply directed her to the part 
of the mortgage offer that says it has the right to do this, and said it requested further 
information and documents to ensure it was lending responsibly. I appreciate this is 
frustrating.
Nonetheless, TSB did have the right to ask for more documents. Ive seen the documents 
that were requested and it wouldnt usually be a problem for an applicant to provide them. 
TSB asked for further documents on 29 December 2021 and sent a reminder on 5 January 
2022. The broker was the point of contact for Miss Ds application and it was reasonable for 
TSB to send the request to the broker. 
Unfortunately, the broker was away from work, first on holiday and then with Covid-19. 
Theres no evidence that TSB was aware of this before 7 January 2022, when Miss D 
contacted it. Miss D had changed jobs in December 2021 and the broker had to forward her 
December 2021 payslip and update the application with her new income. This was also 
outstanding.
TSB told Miss D what was required. Her solicitor helped provide and certify documents. 
Miss D says she provided the requested documents on 7 January 2022. TSB says it didnt 
receive all of the documents until 17 January 2022. TSBs records show it received a 
number of documents on 10 and 11 January 2022. TSB asked Miss D to sign an intent to let 
document on 14 January 2022. I appreciate that Miss D was worried about timing. But I also 
need to take into account that TSB needed to review the documents once they were 
received, and decide if they were sufficient or if it needed anything else.
Miss D told us exchange of contracts was scheduled for 7 January 2022. She told TSB it 
was scheduled for 14 January 2022. She also told TSB it was scheduled for 10 January with 
completion on 14 January 2022, with a tenant due to move in at the end of January 2022. 
Miss D says her purchase was part of a chain and she was under pressure to exchange or 
risk losing the property. Miss D hasnt provided evidence of the intended exchange or 
completion date or that the only thing that delayed it was her outstanding mortgage offer.
Theres no doubt though that Miss D was in a difficult and stressful position. Shed changed 
conveyancers three weeks (or less) before she was due to exchange  and that period 
included the Christmas and New Year holidays. Her mortgage offer was on hold and her 
broker was away from work with Covid-19. This happened during a global pandemic. Miss D 
would have been worried about her purchase. While Miss D has told us this affected her 
sleep and ability to work, I cant see that she made TSB aware of this before the application 
completed. As it didnt know the effect this matter was having on Miss D, I cant fairly say 
that TSB should have communicated with her differently.  
Fortunately, Miss Ds purchase did complete. She hasnt provided evidence of a tenancy 
falling through or other losses due to any delay caused by TSB. In the circumstances, I cant 
fairly require TSB to pay compensation for financial loss.
Miss D says TSB wrongly told her it hadnt received documents. For instance, she says it wrongly told her a document hadnt been certified. TSBs notes show it received an 
uncertified document on 10 January 2022 and a certified document on 11 January 2022  
which it confirmed to Miss D on 12 January 2022. If Miss D was given incorrect information 
about when documents were received, I dont think this caused any delays.
Miss D says she felt her integrity was being questioned, and expressed concerns that this 
could be due to her name or origins. I havent seen anything to suggest that was the case. I 
appreciate this was a worrying time for Miss D. But I must bear in mind that letting property 
is a business, and that TSB is entitled to make checks before lending. 
It was unfortunate that Miss Ds broker was away at that time, but TSB wasnt responsible 
for this or any resulting delay, or for Miss D paying her conveyancer to do extra work in the 
brokers absence. And I havent seen evidence of any unnecessary delays by TSB after it 
spoke to Miss D on 7 January 2022. There was also the outstanding matter related to TSB 
receiving Miss Ds payslip for December 2021 and the broker updating the application with 
her new income  something which couldnt have been dealt with until January 2022.
Overall, I dont think TSB treated Miss D unfairly. In the circumstances I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require TSB to pay compensation to Miss D or take any further steps in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman