DRN-3471196
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Aqua, irresponsibly granted him 
credit that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
NewDay approved a credit card application for Mr B in September 2019. They initially 
provided a credit limit of £900 but in October 2020 they increased the credit limit to £1,900.
Mr B says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
NewDay disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they 
reviewed Mr Bs credit file and found he had no arrears and no pay day loans. They said that 
whilst there were defaults and a County Court Judgment (CCJ) on his file these were 
historic. They noted there was £3,900 of unsecured debt showing on Mr Bs credit file but 
when taking his income of £24,000 and further household income of £9,000 that they 
thought he would have had access to, into account they didnt think they were wrong to offer 
a credit card as they believed the credit provided was affordable.
And when NewDay increased the credit limit in October 2020 they said they considered     
Mr Bs performance on his account and his credit file and didnt see a reason not to extend 
further credit.
Our investigator thought that NewDay shouldnt have provided the limit increase in October 
2020 and suggested NewDay should take some action to remedy the situation. But as 
NewDay disagreed the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Account opening.
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Mr Bs credit file and gathered some information from him about his income and 
circumstances. That information suggested Mr B could afford the limited credit they were 
offering. The defaults on the credit file were at least 36 months old and the CCJ was 
significantly older and, as the credit file showed Mr Bs other credit commitments were up to 
date, and the credit being provided was comparatively small in relation to Mr Bs earnings, I 
dont think the initial offer of an account was an irresponsible one.
October 2020 limit increase.
NewDay more than doubled the credit limit in October 2020. They say they checked the 
account performance and Mr Bs credit file, and I think those checks were proportionate, but 
I dont think the checks demonstrated the increased limit was affordable for Mr B.
I think Mr Bs account history was showing signs that he was having some financial difficulty. 
He had been using most of his limit for some months; there was a recent missed payment 
and a recent over limit fee applied. Mr Bs unsecured debt had also increased, and hed 
been in touch with NewDay only a few months before the new limit was applied, to explain 
his job was insecure.
I think that showed a level of reliance on the card which should have made NewDay aware 
that it was unlikely he would manage a higher limit in a sustainable way. I dont think 
NewDay needed to gather any further information. I think the information it had was enough 
to suggest the increased credit limit was unaffordable.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mr Bs credit limit beyond £900, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mr B has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he 
should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied to balances above £900. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after the October 2020 limit increase regarding this account from Mr Bs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £900, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once    
Mr B has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
the October 2020 increase in relation to the account should be removed from his 
credit file. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman