DRN-1461562
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about TSB Bank Plc and the way they dealt with the switching of his joint 
current account to another provider and his resulting complaint.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr B and his wife decided to switch their joint account held with TSB to 
another current account provider, who Ill refer to as N. The switch was due to be completed 
on 14 December but was instead completed on 17 December as the account had an existing 
direct debit due to be taken.
Mr B then noticed N paid £500 into a sole current account he held with TSB, which he 
assumed would also be closed when his joint account was switched. He had brought his 
account balance for his sole current account to £0 in preparation for this.
Mr B complained that TSB failed to refund the £500 within two working days as hed been 
told they shouldve. He didnt think it was fair for TSB to charge a returned item fee for this 
transaction. He also complained about the number of e-mails hed received from TSB in the 
lead up to the account switch.
TSB responded, not upholding the complaint. At the same time, Mr Bs wife raised the same 
complaint about the same issue with a payment being made to her sole account. TSB 
upheld this complaint and offered her a payment of £150. Mr B was unhappy that he didnt 
received the same response, so he complained to TSB again asking for the same outcome 
as his wife. TSB didnt respond and Mr B remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think TSB had 
done anything wrong by not closing the joint account until the direct debit had been 
completed. She also explained that as Mr B was only switching his joint account, the other 
accounts he held with TSB would remain open. So, she wouldnt expect TSB to return the 
£500 to N from his open sole current account unless they were instructed to do so. 
Finally, she thought the e-mails Mr B received resulted from the number of accounts Mr B 
held with TSB and a technical issue with TSBs system that he was made aware of in 
branch. So, she didnt think TSB needed to take any further action. Mr B remained unhappy 
to his complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Before I made my decision, I e-mailed Mr B and TSB to address his concerns about the 
difference in his complaint response to his wife. I explained that although I understand his 
frustration at the difference, I didnt think upholding one complaint set a precedent that 
meant a similar complaint should receive the same outcome. So, I didnt think TSB needed 
to do anything further for this aspect of the complaint. Mr B disagreed, saying that as the 
complaint circumstances were exactly the same, he thought TSB providing a different 
outcome was discriminatory. TSB didnt provide a response. Ive considered these 
comments as part of my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the confusion that Mr B wouldve felt when finding out his complaint 
hadnt been upheld despite his wife being offered compensation. I understand why Mr B 
would feel that hed been unfairly treated. But in the same way this office investigates 
complaints, Id expect TSB to look at each complaint they receive individually and 
independently and provide an outcome that they think is appropriate. So, there may be 
situations where similar complaints can receive different outcomes and Im unable to say 
that this in itself is unfair. Im only able to consider the facts of Mr Bs individual complaint 
and decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably. And in this instance, I think they have.
The switch of Mr Bs joint account from TSB to N was due to take place on 14 December 
2018. Ive seen the switch didnt complete until 17 December. But this was because a direct 
debit was outstanding that needed to be processed. Had the account been switched on the 
agreed date, without processing the direct debit, its likely the transaction wouldnt have 
completed which may have had a negative impact on Mr B's finances. As soon as the direct 
debit transaction was presented for payment, the account was closed. So, I think TSB acted 
in good faith to ensure all of Mr Bs direct debit commitments were fulfilled before authorising 
the switch and cant agree that they acted unfairly by not processing the switch on the 
initially agreed date.
The statements provided by TSB show that Mr B had a standing order set up to transfer 
£500 into his sole account from his joint account before the switch was completed to N. 
When an account is switched, the direct debit and standing order instruction will transfer 
alongside it. So, if Mr B didnt cancel this standing order, the payment would be processed 
as usual the following month. I think its likely this is what happened on this occasion and this 
was out of TSBs control.
Mr B is unhappy the £500 wasnt returned to his N joint account within two working days, 
which is what he was told should happen by N. But this rule only applies if money is received 
into a closed account. Although I understand Mr B believed all of his TSB accounts to be 
closed following the switch, and this is shown by him withdrawing all the remaining funds out 
of them prior to the switch, I dont think they were. 
Only the accounts switched to N wouldve been automatically closed, which is what 
happened with the joint account. Unless Mr B closed his sole accounts separately, they 
would remain open even if they had no funds in them. I havent seen anything to show that 
Mr B closed his sole accounts separately. So, I wouldnt expect TSB to have attempted to 
return the funds. As Mr B hadnt closed these accounts, he still had access to banking 
facilities that would allow him to transfer the £500 back into his joint account so I cant agree 
that TSB have acted unfairly in this instance.
Also, TSB have explained that as Mr Bs sole current account remained open, they 
attempted to fulfil the standing order set up from this account to his sole monthly saver 
account. But as Mr B had taken the funds from these accounts when preparing for his joint 
account switch, the transaction couldnt be completed and reversed. TSB have admitted the 
letter would have explained thered be a charge for the unsuccessful payment, but theyve 
also explained this charge wasnt debited. So, Mr B hasnt been financially impacted by this. 
Again, I understand why this wouldnt worried and confused Mr B as he believed the 
accounts to be closed but as Ive already explained, I dont think they were, and this wasnt 
the fault of TSB. So, I dont think theyve acted unfairly.TSB have also accepted there was an internal issue which led to some customers receiving 
more e-mails than necessary but that this was fixed once itd been realised. As Mr B still had 
accounts open with TSB, statements would still be generated. TSB have explained if these 
statements arent viewed, an email is sent reminding the customer there is a statement 
outstanding. I dont think Mr B would view these statements as he assumed the accounts to 
be closed after the switch. So, Id expect TSB to have sent Mr B e-mails as per their 
process. While I understand this wouldve been frustrating and confusing for Mr B, from the 
information I have available, I dont think TSB have e-mailed him unreasonably so dont think 
they need to take any further action.
So, when considering Mr Bs complaint individually, I dont think TSB have acted in a way 
that requires them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman