DRN-4247367
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs H was supplied with a brand new car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS.
Soon after getting the car, Mrs H experienced an issue with her mobile phone disconnecting 
from the cars infotainment system. The fault was intermittent. On some occasions the phone 
would disconnect and reconnect for a short time. On other occasions it would not connect at 
all. This left Mrs H unable to rely on the sat nav system or listen to music whilst driving.
Mrs H reported the fault to the supplying dealer and booked the car in for repair in November 
2022. The supplying dealer advised Mrs H that the car needed a software update. This was 
carried out.
Mrs H continued to experience the same issues. She took the car back to the supplying 
dealer in February 2023. The dealer carried out a further software update. Mrs Hs husband 
collected the car but found that the issue hadnt been resolved because his phone wouldnt 
connect. The car was re-booked for repairs. When Mrs H collected the car, the supplying 
dealer told her that there was nothing wrong with the cars infotainment system and that the 
issue was with her phone not being compatible.
Mrs H complained to BMWFS and asked to reject the car. BMWFS issued a final response 
in which it said it wasnt upholding the complaint because the fault had occurred more than 6 
months after the point of supply.
Mrs H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said they were satisfied that there was a 
connectivity issue within the first 6 months of supply. The investigator said that the evidence 
suggested that the issue was with the infotainment unit of the car and not with Mrs Hs 
phone. They said that the supplying dealer had already had an opportunity to repair the fault 
and that a rejection was justifiable.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said it had spoken to the supplying dealer who had confirmed that 
there was no fault with the car and that the issue was a compatibility issue with Mrs Hs 
phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general state and condition as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mrs H was brand new. So its reasonable to expect that it would be of a 
very high standard and that it would be fault free for a reasonable period of time.
Mrs H experienced issues with connecting to the infotainment system within the first few 
weeks of getting the car. The car has an infotainment system which uses Android Auto. Mrs 
H says that her phone initially worked as it should with the system but after a few weeks the 
phone would disconnect.
Mrs H has told this service that the car was returned to the supplying dealer in November 
2022, February 2023, March 2023 and April 2023 for the issue to be fixed and that on the 
first three occasions the supplying dealer carried out a software update to the car. I havent 
seen job cards for all of these visits, but Ive seen job cards dated 14 March and 19 April and 
the earlier visits havent been disputed by either the supplying dealer or BMWFS. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a connectivity issue which arose within 
the first 6 months of supply. The dispute here is whether the issue is due to a fault with the 
car or a fault with Mrs Hs phone.
I can see that on three of the four visits to the supplying dealer, the dealer attempted repairs 
by carrying out a software update to the car. This suggest that the supplying dealer 
considered the issue to be with the car and not with Mrs Hs phone.
Ive also taken into account Mrs Hs testimony that her phone connected without issue to the 
courtesy vehicle provided by the supplying dealer. This again suggests that there was no 
issue with Mrs Hs phone. Mrs H has also provided testimony that her husband experienced 
connectivity issues in the car with his phone, which again suggest that the issue was with the 
cars infotainment system.
Theres no evidence to suggest that there is a fault with Mrs Hs phone. The fact that Mrs Hs 
phone worked in the courtesy vehicle is persuasive evidence that it was the infotainment 
system in her car that had a fault. Further, if the supplying dealer didnt believe that the fault 
was with the infotainment system, I cant see why it attempted repairs including software 
updates on three occasions.
On balance, Im persuaded that there is a fault with the cars infotainment system. Im 
satisfied that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. The supplying dealer 
has had a reasonable opportunity to repair the fault, but the repair hasnt been successful. 
Mrs H should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mrs H hasnt been able to use all the features of the car because of the connectivity issues. 
This hasnt stopped her from driving the car, but it has caused her a loss of enjoyment and 
impaired use. Because of this, I think Mrs H should receive a refund of 10% of all monthly 
rentals shed paid from July 2022 to the date of settlement.
Its clear that Mrs H has been caused some inconvenience as a result of being supplied with 
a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes had to return the car to the supplying dealer 
on multiple occasions. Shes also been caused distress when the sat nav system stopped 
working whilst she was driving.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs H
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution 
Refund 10% of rentals paid since July 2022
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amount refunded calculated from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mrs Hs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman