DRN-2635456
The complaint
  Mrs T complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through a hire purchase 
agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI), trading as Dacia Finance.
What happened
I have issued an earlier provisional decision in respect of this complaint. For clarity, I repeat 
it here.
On 18 February 2019, Mrs T entered into a hire purchase agreement for a brand-new car. 
The term of the agreement was 49 months with monthly payments of £137.51. The 
agreement has a mileage allowance of 11,000 miles per annum.
Within 49 days, Mrs T started to experience issues with the media system. The system 
would freeze and wouldnt work at all. Mrs T took the car to the dealership on numerous 
occasions which she feels were a complete waste of time as the dealership were unable to 
rectify the problem.
In December 2019, the system was completely replaced but very shortly afterwards Mrs T 
contacted the dealership to say the repair had failed and the unit wasnt working again, and 
she raised concerns about the functionality of the stop/start function. The dealership 
investigated the stop/start issue. It tested the battery which was found to be running at 80% 
capacity. It charged the battery and rested the stop/start function and found it to be fine  but 
it still couldnt resolve the issue with the media system.
On 15 January 2020, the dealership looked at car again. It made further investigations and 
the fault was found to be a manufacturers software issue. The dealership told Mrs T there 
would be a fix in place by June 2020.
Mrs T felt very disappointed with her experience with the dealership. She entered into an 
agreement for a brand-new car precisely to avoid the kind of issues she had experienced. 
She complained to RCI as the finance company asking to reject the car.
On 26 February 2020, RCI issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. It 
said it acknowledged there had been issues with the media unit, but it didnt feel this affected 
the driveability of the car. It said there were workarounds available which would allow Mrs T 
to use the sat-nav and FM radio as normal and as it now had a software fix available in June 
2020, a repair would be a more appropriate remedy. As a gesture of goodwill, Dacia had 
offered a £200 dealership voucher, which RCI thought was a reasonable offer for the trouble 
and upset this matter had caused.
Mrs T remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs T. He agreed that there was a clear fault with the 
media unit and that there had been multiple delays causing Mrs T a great deal of trouble and 
upset. In his view, as Dacia now had a software fix which would resolve the issue, he found 
a repair to be the most appropriate remedy. But he felt Mrs T should have expected a much 
better experience from a brand-new car and the ongoing issue had clearly impaired her use 
of the car. He upheld the complaint and asked RCO to:
 Refund 20% of Mrs Ts monthly payments for impaired use from May 2019 until the
stereo system is repaired;
 Pay £250 trouble and upset to Mrs T and;
 Confirm the date in June 2020 of the upcoming software fix with Mrs T.
RCI accepted the investigators findings. But it asked to refund the 20% of monthly payments 
once the software fix had been carried out rather than on an ongoing basis.
Mrs T didnt feel the compensation went far enough. She wanted a higher proportion of the 
monthly payments refunded and suggested this should be more in the region of 40%. She 
asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I reached the same outcome as the investigator, but I reached a 
different decision on how RCI should put things right.
 I looked at why I think the cars quality was not satisfactory at the time it was supplied
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The finance agreement in this complaint, that is the hire purchase agreement, is a regulated
consumer credit agreement. As such, this service can consider complaints relating to it.
RCI is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied contractual
term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. In this case the car 
supplied was brand new with no previous mileage. In order to uphold this complaint, I said I 
would have to be persuaded the car was not of satisfactory quality and so a breach of the 
contract has taken place.
In these individual circumstances, I said I thought a reasonable person would expect the 
level of quality should be such that the car could be used  free from defects. The issue with 
the media unit occurred only 49 days after Mrs T acquired the car. This is a manufacturer 
known issue which affects one of the major features of the car. So, I dont agree the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs T.
Mrs T, having spent a great deal of time, over 18 months, toing and froing to not one but two 
dealerships in an attempt to resolve this complaint wasnt confident this matter would ever 
be resolved and so she asked to reject the car. I said in considering what is a fair remedy, I have noted that two Dacia dealerships have 
attempted to repair or replace the media unit, and both have failed. But, eventually, it was 
discovered that the actual problem was a requirement for a software update. So, I said Im 
required to consider if a software fix should be attempted or allow a rejection of the car.
Mrs T has informed this service that the software fix went ahead in September 2020, some 
two months after RCI said it would, but that so far it would seem the repair has been 
successful. On balance, I said Im persuaded the most proportionate outcome is to allow the 
one attempt at the known fix, that being the software update rather than allowing Mrs T to 
reject the car. I say this because although the media unit has been investigated previously, 
there was no known fix, this matter has now been addressed and I said I noted the rest of 
the car appears to be working as it should.
What I said about impaired use of the car
Having said I found the software fix to be the most appropriate remedy I said I was of the 
view that Mrs Ts use of the car was impaired. Mrs T has explained she specifically looked at 
a brand-new car precisely to avoid the issues she has experienced with this car.  She 
explained how important it is to her to be able to use the cars media centre for her daily 
drives to work and back, and she has never got to do that. Moreover, she has become 
increasingly frustrated with the toing and froing between two dealerships, false promises of 
repairs, a new unit altogether and then the promise of a software fix that took well over a 
year to be completed. The dealership has said it demonstrated a work around for the failed 
DAB radio that would allow Mrs T to use FM radio. But Mrs T says this didnt work either and 
she was without the media unit functioning at all until the software fix was carried out.
I said Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Ts testimony, if she had a working media unit, I dont see 
why she would have continued to pursue the matter to the extent that she has. Both Mrs T 
and her husband have described their disillusionment and increasing incredulous belief that 
they had taken the decision to purchase a brand-new car and yet have been unable, despite 
their best efforts, to have the car free of defects. It is clear this has been a very stressful 
experience and has caused a great deal of inconvenience to them both.
So, I said whilst I agree repair is the most appropriate remedy, I dont agree RCI have fairly 
or reasonably compensated Mrs T for her impaired use of the car or the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused. And so, I said Im upholding this complaint and asking RCI to do 
more to put things right.
I also said my provisional decision is subject to the software fix resolving the issues with the 
media unit so that it remains free from defects. If the media system should fail again Mrs T 
will be entitled to bring a new complaint in that respect.
I said I intended to ask RCI Financial Services Limited to:
Refund 40% of all the monthly payments made under the agreement from May 2019 
until the software fix was completed in September 2020 (inclusive of both months) 
and pay 8% simple interest on those payments.
Pay Mrs T £400 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.RCI said whilst it agreed in principle with my provisional decision it felt the increase to 40% 
of the payments made to be somewhat harsh. It reiterated the customer still had full use of 
the vehicle during the period, albeit without the DAB function of radio. It wasnt I agreement 
that the loss of this function equated to 40% of the available features.
Mrs T also responded. She said although she found 40% of the payments made to be an 
improvement on the original suggestion by the adjudicator, she felt 50% would be more 
proportionate given the length of time this matter has been going on, the fact that the radio 
issue was only fixed in September 2020, an additional 3 months after RCI promised it would 
be fixed and she has experienced further unrelated issues with the car.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as indicated in my earlier provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to thank both parties for their responses. I appreciate this has taken some 
time to reach a decision. This is in part due to the volume of information and I would 
reassure both parties I have looked all the information provided.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I think its important to say at the outset, that my role here isnt to fine or punish a business. If 
an error has occurred, I look to see look at how a business has sought to address the issue 
and whether that approach is fair and reasonable.
In this case neither party can agree on what it deems reasonable compensation. For its part 
RCI suggest the failure of the radio doesnt equate to 40% use of the car. My decision to 
award 40% of the payments made is based on what I find fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint rather than an equation of the radio to other working parts of 
the car. 
I have already said I agree that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, but the fairest remedy 
was a repair. It took, RCI, however, over 18 months to carry out that repair whilst Mrs T paid 
the full monthly payments for the car. The refund of 40% of the payments reflects what I 
consider reasonable.  
Mrs T would like the refund to be of a higher proportion, but I dont agree increasing the 
amount to 50% of the payments would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The additional £400 is for the considerable trouble and upset Mrs T experienced 
in trying to get the fault fixed on a brand-new car.
Neither party has provided any new information following the issuing of my provisional 
decision. That being so, it follows that I have come to the same conclusions for the same 
reasons as I did in my provisional decision. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct RCI Financial Services Limited to:
Refund 40% of all the monthly payments made under the agreement from May 2019 
until the software fix was completed in September 2020 (inclusive of both months) 
and pay 8% simple interest on those payments.
Pay Mrs T £400 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman