DRN-1942810
The complaint
Miss M complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined her legal expenses insurance claim. 
She says they didnt do enough to make her aware of deadlines in relation to her 
employment tribunal claim.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here.
Miss M had an insurance policy provided by Amtrust which covered her for certain legal 
expenses. The insurance included the benefit of use of a legal advice helpline (LH). In March 
2019 Miss M contacted the LH as she was considering taking legal action against her former 
employer for unfair dismissal.
Initial advice was given to Miss M about how she could progress her claim against her 
former employer. This included the requirement to go through the Advisory, Conciliation and 
Arbitration Service (ACAS) process. 
Miss M made further calls to the LH in the following months about the next steps and the 
claims process. ACAS issued their certificate to Miss M in June 2019. Miss M submitted her 
claim form to Amtrust in August 2019. Amtrust referred the matter to one of their panel 
solicitors. 
The panel solicitor concluded that Miss M was out of time to bring her employment tribunal 
as the deadline for doing so was 21 July 2019 (a month after the ACAS certificate had been 
issued). Miss M complained to Amtrust, she says this deadline wasnt made clear to her in 
her conversations with the LH. If it had been, she would have responded in time.
Amtrust considered the complaint and said that the LH staff had acted appropriately. They 
disagreed that they had caused Miss M to miss the deadline. The matter was referred to our 
service and one of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
concluded Amtrust had acted fairly in the circumstances.
As she disagrees, Miss M has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. I became 
aware that Miss M hadnt yet been provided with copies of recordings of the LH calls that 
shed previously requested. So, I arranged for these to be shared with Miss M and gave her 
a further opportunity for her to comment. Now Ive done so, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Amtrusts LH didnt do enough to make Miss M aware of 
the deadline to refer her claim to the employment tribunal. Miss M says this resulted in the 
claim being out of time.
Ive listened to the calls between Miss M and Amtrust. Im satisfied that there are numerous 
times when the LH staff made Miss M aware of the time limits relating to her case. This was 
during different calls between March and June 2019. 
Of particular note is part of a call on 18 June 2019  in this Miss M was again informed that 
she would have one month from the ACAS certificate being issued to take it to court. Also 
during this call the claims process, including the requirement for a prospects assessment for 
acceptance of a claim, is explained. Miss M was also advised that this can take up to ten 
days for the initial assessment. Towards the end of the call Miss M says: Ill wait until ACAS 
come back and will go from there, see what they say and then Ill get this form done. 
Taking all of this together, I think Amtrust did enough to make Miss M aware of the deadlines 
involved in the legal action she was proposing. I understand that Miss M says that the 
documents ACAS provided didnt make the deadline clear. I can only comment on the 
actions of Amtrust and their agents. But, even if Miss M is correct and the deadline wasnt 
explained by ACAS, this isnt something that Amtrust are responsible for. It wouldnt be fair 
for me to ask Amtrust to incur costs or to accept a claim due to an error they arent 
responsible for. 
I dont doubt Miss Ms intentions and I accept that she believed she was doing everything 
within the required timeframes. But ultimately the solicitors assessing her claim concluded it 
had been made too late  I dont think this was due to any acts or omissions that Amtrust are 
responsible for. Because of this, I wont be telling them they need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
Miss M also added that Amtrust had on occasions spelt her name incorrectly and didnt 
provide recordings of calls that they said they would. Ive considered both of these points but 
Im not persuaded the impact of this is such that compensation needs to be paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman