DRN-3626148
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly 
declined a claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties and not in dispute, so Ill only 
summarise them here.
Mrs and Mr B tell us their shed was damaged during a storm in January 2022 and 
they submitted a claim to Admiral.
A surveyor visited the property within a week to assess the damage.
Mrs B and Mr B didnt hear anything following this visit so contacted Admiral and 
were informed the claim was declined as the shed was not a permanent fixture.
Mrs B and Mr B complained and in its final response Admiral reiterated the 
declinature of the claim saying the shed was a free-standing structure and not 
covered under the building element of the policy as defined in the policy book. 
Admiral also apologised for the delay in communicating the outcome of the claim and 
awarded £50.
Mrs B and Mr B have been without use of a shed since the incident and tell us they 
are using their garage and a relatives garage to store the contents of their shed in 
the meantime.
Mrs and Mr B brought their complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. He 
said hed looked at the definitions which Admiral had highlighted when it declined the 
claim and didnt think Admiral had fairly applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy. He said Admiral should re-open the claim and progress it in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions. And should pay £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Admiral didnt respond to our investigators view so the case has been passed to me 
to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators outcome and for the same reasons, which Ill 
explain.
In its final response Admiral have said the shed isnt covered under the building element of 
the policy as laid out in the definition in the policy document. It defines Buildings as:
Your home and its permanent fixtures and fittings, including the following.
 Central-heating systems, fuel-storage tanks, drains, permanently connected pipes and 
cables, service tanks and septic tanks
 Permanently installed wind turbines, solar panels, ground-source-heating pumps, hot 
tubs and swimming pools
 Drives, decking, fences, garden walls, gates, hard tennis courts, paths, patios and 
terraces
I note that in the definition of Buildings home is set out in bold print, indicating it also has a 
definition. And the policy document goes on to define home as:
The main building which you live in and its garages, sheds or outbuildings, all within the 
boundaries of the address shown in your policy documents, which is used for private and 
domestic purposes only.
So Im persuaded that a shed is considered part of the home under the policy.
 
The building section of the policy sets out what is covered and what is not covered under the 
policy. Storm and flood are insured risks excluding loss or damage caused to any gate, 
fence or hedge or any unfinished alterations or extensions. I can see no exclusion for loss or 
damage to sheds, free-standing or otherwise, so in the circumstances of this case Im 
satisfied cover applies. And I find Admiral has unfairly declined the claim.
Putting things right
Your text here Admiral should reconsider the claim, taking into account the remaining terms 
and conditions and excess under the policy. And it should pay Mrs and Mr B £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and I require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
I further require it to pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman