DRN-3179545
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bennetts Motorcycling Services Limited trading as Bennetts unfairly 
cancelled his motorbike insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had a motorbike insurance policy bought through Bennetts, an insurance broker. In 
May 2021, about two weeks before his policy was due to renew, he called Bennetts to 
discuss his policy renewal and the premium quote hed recently received.
Before looking at the renewal quote, Bennetts agent asked Mr P whether his personal 
circumstances had changed. Mr P told her he was unemployed. The agent found that Mr Ps 
current insurer wouldnt continue to cover him due to this change in his employment status. 
The agent initially told Mr P shed have to cancel his existing policy and find a new insurer 
but, after checking with a manager, she told Mr P shed pass this to another team whod 
check this with the underwriter. As it was the weekend, they wouldnt be able to do this until 
Monday. She advised Mr P not to ride his motorbike until her colleagues had spoken to the 
underwriter because he might not be covered if he needed to make a claim. Mr P was 
extremely unhappy with the situation and said he wanted to complain about this.
Bennetts resolved this with the underwriter two days later. It called Mr P and told him his 
current insurer would continue to cover him and offer renewal based on his previous 
occupation. Mr P remained unhappy. He complained that Bennetts had effectively cancelled 
his policy and discriminated against him because he was unemployed.
Bennetts apologised for any confusion during the call and offered him £50 compensation. It 
also found him a new insurance quote at a much lower price. Mr P didnt accept this and 
brought his complaint to this service. He also told us hed been unable to attend two 
interviews because he wasnt able to use his motorbike.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He 
acknowledged there was some confusion during the call but was satisfied that Bennetts 
agent told Mr P her colleagues would speak with the underwriter to clarify the situation. He 
thought this was the right approach. He didnt think Bennetts had prevented Mr P from 
attending interviews and didnt agree that it had discriminated against him. He thought 
Bennetts £50 offer was fair.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most insurance policies say a customer must let the insurer know about any change in 
personal circumstances. This is because underwriters take account of a range of risk factors 
when deciding the premium, or whether it will insure a customer at all. A customers job or 
employment status is normally one of these risk factors.
Bennetts is an insurance broker. Its not responsible for the decisions made by Mr Ps 
insurance underwriter. When Bennetts discovered Mr Ps insurer might not continue to cover 
him because of his employment status, it did the following:
Told Mr P it would check this with the underwriter. 
Said it couldnt do this until Monday.
Advised Mr P not to ride his motorbike until it had done this.
I think this was exactly what Bennetts should have done. I appreciate Mr P was frustrated by 
being told not to ride until the matter was resolved, but this was entirely sensible. Insurers 
can often reject claims where customers dont tell them about a change in circumstances 
and that change would have affected cover. That might have been the case if Mr P had 
needed to make a claim. 
Bennetts resolved the matter with Mr Ps underwriter on the Monday, as promised. It told   
Mr P his existing cover would continue until expiry, and his current insurer would offer 
renewal based on the same terms. Im satisfied that Bennetts resolved the matter as quickly 
as possible and when it told Mr P it would.
Mr P said he was confused about whether his policy was cancelled or not. For the avoidance 
of doubt, the policy was never cancelled and Mr P doesnt need to declare this on any future 
insurance application. Im satisfied that Bennetts agent told Mr P she wasnt cancelling the 
policy until her colleagues had spoken to the underwriter. Im also satisfied that Bennetts 
confirmed Mr P was still insured and sent him an updated policy certificate confirming this. 
As I said above, Bennetts isnt responsible for decisions by the underwriter. This includes 
pricing decisions. So I dont agree with Mr P that Bennetts discriminated against him when it 
quoted renewal premiums that were much higher than Mr P had previously paid. I note that it 
was later able to find Mr P a quote at a much more competitive price.
Finally, Mr P told us hed been unable to attend two interviews because he couldnt use his 
motorbike and wants compensation for this. However, I note the following:
Mr P didnt mention these interviews during the call to Bennetts or say that not using 
his motorbike would cause him any immediate problems. Instead, he mentioned that 
hed wanted to ride later that afternoon.
The agent asked Mr P if he had use of a private car. He said yes.
The agent asked Mr P if his motorbike was his primary or secondary means of 
transport. He said secondary.
I think if P needed to use his motorbike for upcoming interviews hed have told Bennetts 
during the call. And as Bennetts confirmed he was still insured two days later, I dont see 
how it prevented him from riding after that. So Im not persuaded that Bennetts actions 
prevented Mr P from attending any interviews.
I understand why Mr P was upset. He called to discuss his quote for the following years 
cover and came away from the call thinking his insurance might be cancelled and his 
premium was about to double. I can also understand why hed be angry that this was 
because he was unemployed and why hed think this was discrimination.
However, for the reasons above, I dont think Bennetts did anything wrong. I think its £50 
offer to apologise for any confusion during the call is fair. Its up to Mr P whether he wants to 
accept this. I wont be asking it to do any more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman