DRN-3230446
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund several transactions that he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr S has explained that hed received a message from Monzo that another device was 
registered with his account and there was an unknown transaction. After reviewing his 
account, Mr S noticed 44 payments had left his Monzo account that were made during the 
previous year or so that he didnt recognise making himself. Mr S later explained that he 
hadnt noticed these transactions because this account was used for savings and the 
amounts were small.
Mr S notified Monzo, who looked into the transactions. They asked Mr S about his account 
and he confirmed that he still had his card, he hadnt given his Personal Identification 
Number (PIN) to anyone and he hadnt lost his phone with the Monzo banking app installed 
on it. Mr S thought his account had been targeted by fraudsters.
Monzos investigation showed that the disputed payments were made using both the Monzo 
app and the physical card, including other transactions that used the card details to make 
purchases.
Monzo refunded two transactions to Mr S. These transactions used the card details including 
the three-digit security code from the card to make the purchases. Monzo decided they 
couldnt hold Mr S responsible for them, but they thought that Mr S was liable for all the other  
transactions hed disputed. 
Mr S complained to Monzo about the lack of further refunds and after investigating the 
matter, they didnt change their position. Monzo explained to Mr S that one of the 
transactions hed disputed was too old for them to consider and the regulations allowed them 
not to refund it. 
Mr S was unhappy with how Monzo had dealt with his complaint and brought it to our service 
for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. He thought 
that it was reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions and said 
because Monzo had refunded two of them  he wouldnt be considering them in the 
complaint. Our investigator couldnt find any point of compromise where Mr Ss account had 
been used by a third party and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S disagreed and argued that Monzo had accepted his account had been hacked 
because theyd made two refunds, which meant that he should receive all the disputed 
transactions back. Mr S asked for a further review of his complaint, which has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Monzo have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN, or the Monzo banking 
app were used to make the disputed transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows the 
disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Monzo and Mr S agreed to use the card and the account 
for transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN together or the banking app, 
Monzo agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder 
or another approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this 
case used the genuine card and the correct PIN or the registered device with the banking 
app, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transactions were authorised. 
But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Monzo to hold Mr S 
responsible, for example if the card or app were used without his permission.
The disputed transactions span a considerable period of time and were made using different 
methods  some used Mr Ss genuine card and correct PIN. Other transactions were online 
transactions or transfers, which used the banking app on Mr Ss registered mobile phone. 
The disputed transactions were made both before and after genuine transactions. This 
means that because Mr S still has his phone and card, in order for someone other than Mr S 
to be responsible for making them, they would have needed access to both the card and his 
phone. Additionally, they would need the PIN for the debit card and  the various security 
details (other PINs) needed to access the phone and then the banking app. That person 
would also need to remove them repeatedly and return them to Mr S without his knowledge. 
Mr S doesnt live with anyone who could have taken these items and used them without his 
realising and I dont think its a likely scenario for an unknown third party to be responsible 
for these disputed transactions. I say that because Mr S still has both his card and phone 
and it seems implausible that an unidentified third party could repeatedly access these items 
over an extended period of time without Mr S noticing and obtain various PINs known only to 
Mr S.
Mr Ss has argued that because Monzo made two refunds, this is an acceptance that he was 
the victim of a hack and they should refund all the other disputed transactions. Monzo 
made the refunds because they didnt believe they could hold Mr S responsible for them  
due to the way the transactions were carried out using the card details rather than the 
physical card or the banking app. The other transactions used the card or the banking app 
which Monzo believed were made by Mr S.
So, I dont think that the refund of two disputed transactions is evidence that all the others 
should be refunded. Theres no evidence of a hack and all the disputed bank transfers, 
apart from the one over 13 months old, were made using the same device that Mr S had 
registered with Monzo. The audit details supplied by Monzo show a consistent device was 
used to make both the disputed and genuine payments and was the same device Mr S used 
to report his losses to Monzo. Ive already discounted the likelihood of an unknown third 
party being responsible and theres no evidence to support that a hack was the reason for 
these disputed transactions.I also looked at the pattern of disputed transactions, including cash withdrawals which were 
made using the genuine card and PIN. The majority of amounts withdrawn were relatively 
small and the account had a healthy balance, with far more funds available to whoever was 
using the card, but they chose not to withdraw them. This isnt a typical way a stolen card is 
used. Its a similar picture for the bank transfers, which needed the banking app on Mr Ss 
phone to set up the new payees and send the money. To access the banking app would 
have required the phones PIN number and then further security details to open the app. 
Theres no evidence that anyone else could have done this and the amounts sent to these 
payees left available funds in Mr Ss account. Thats not something a thief would usually do 
because they wouldnt know when the loss would be reported and access to the account 
stopped. What I would expect to see is an emptying of the account, which wasnt the case 
here.
Monzo told Mr S they wouldnt consider one of the disputed transactions because it was too 
old and relied on a section of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 to justify their 
decision. In summary, it says the payment user (Mr S) should notify Monzo no later than 13 
months after the date of the unauthorised transaction. Mr S told our investigator that he 
hadnt noticed these transactions because it was a savings account and the payments 
leaving it were small. But, I dont think the reason Mr S explained for not noticing this 
transaction allows me to override this regulation because the transaction information was 
readily available through the banking app. I think it was reasonable for Monzo to rely on the 
regulation and decline to consider this transaction.
So, taking everything into account, I think it was more likely than not that Mr S was 
responsible for these payments. It was reasonable for Monzo to hold him liable for them and 
I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman