DRN-3852259
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr C says he sold a mobile phone online for £560 and gave this to the buyer on 6 June 
2022. When he tried to move the money to his savings account he found that he couldnt do 
so. And he spoke to HSBC several times and submitted evidence about his entitlement to 
the money. He says he found it difficult to access other money in his accounts and the 
marker has affected his ability to apply for financial products.
HSBC said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received a report that the two payments of £299 
and £261 received by Mr C that day had been obtained fraudulently. It said it hadnt received 
the evidence Mr C says he sent about the sale including a video of him handing over the 
phone before it issued a final response to his complaint. So, it concluded that Mr C was 
responsible for what happened, and his accounts were closed, and the marker added.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the marker removed, and  
Mr C paid £150 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience. She explained that 
there was a high bar for adding the marker. Here Mr C had provided messages about the 
sale of the phone which he said were with the buyer. And these tied up with his version of 
what happened and would have been difficult to plan if they werent genuine. Hed also 
provided a video taken from his house of the street showing the buyer arriving in a car and 
him handing over the phone. She didnt accept HSBCs argument that this wasnt genuine 
based on the quick look at the phone before it was accepted and that there was a fist bump 
between the parties. She found what Mr C had said to be plausible and persuasive. And she 
didnt think he was complicit in what happened.
HSBC said it didnt agree and that it truly believes Mr C was the scammer here or was 
working with a scammer. It said it had been able to show that fraudulent funds had been 
sent to Mr Cs account based on the victims report which it believes is plausible. Mr C had 
used his account irregularly, so it was unclear why he had done so here for what he says 
was the sale of a phone. It accepted that it hadnt been able to prove for certain that Mr C 
was the perpetrator. But if he was unwitting it was unclear how a scammer was going to 
access the money and it said this would have been well planned. It said that the scam had 
all the hallmarks of concealment of funds noting the odd movements of money in and out of 
Mr Cs accounts in the time before this happened. It noted that the buyers name appeared 
to be a short form of Mr Cs first name and believed this not to be a coincidence. And it 
thought a genuine buyer would want to give more than a cursory look at a phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, HSBC needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Unusually in this case Mr C has a significant amount of evidence about the sale and 
handover of the mobile phone. And based on what Ive seen Im also satisfied that he made 
early attempts to supply this to HSBC and seemed to have confirmation it had been 
uploaded.
HSBCs position is that this evidence was created for the purpose of the scam. Mr C says he 
was an innocent party and himself the victim. I note also that Mr C has recently provided a 
number of clear photographs of a mobile phone in a box with the original security seals and 
the IMEI number visible. I cant know if this was the phone he says he supplied but if it was 
the presence of security seals and the buyer knowing his address may account for the 
relatively short time when the phone was handed over. If the scam was so well planned it 
seems unlikely that Mr C would give the buyer a name that sounded like a nickname for him.
I also point out that I havent seen direct information from the person reporting this scam and 
from whose account the money was sent. I note that the payments were sent at 17:26 and 
17:28 that day tying into the text messages Mr C has provided. And also, that although the 
scam is said to have started the day before it was reported at 18:05 and almost exactly at 
the time that Mr C shows he handed the phone over. 
HSBC takes the view that this must have been about obtaining and moving on the money. 
But Mr Cs explanation is that the person that defrauded him had the value of the phone - 
that was the benefit here. And so, I can see a scenario where it wasnt necessary to move 
the money on for a third party to benefit. In any event it seems that Mr C had tried initially to 
move the money to his savings account rather than transfer this on. His behaviour including 
in conversations with HSBC seems to me to be consistent with his version of events and 
overall, I consider him to be reliable in what he says.
Thats not to say that there couldnt be grounds for suspicion about what happened and 
conflicting evidence and its possible to draw adverse inferences about Mr C as HSBC has 
done. But there is a high bar for adding the CIFAS marker. Im not satisfied that HSBC has 
shown this has been met and that it had sufficiently taken into account Mr Cs explanation of 
what happened before it closed his account and added the marker. Having balanced all the 
evidence Im satisfied that its most likely that he was an unwitting participant in what 
happened.It's a matter for HSBC to decide whether to offer him an account and in his complaint form to 
this service Mr C indicated that he no longer wanted accounts with HSBC. But I dont find 
that there was a reasonable basis to add the marker and so I agree with the resolution 
recommended by our adjudicator and which I consider fair. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker.
2) Pay Mr C £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman