DRN-4040527
The complaint
Mr W complains about Santander UK Plcs actions when reviewing and subsequently closing 
his personal and business account. Mr W is also unhappy about the delay in receiving the 
money held in his personal account.
What happened
Mr W held two accounts  one for personal use and one for business use. In August 2021, 
Santander decided to close both Mr Ws accounts without notice. Santander sent the money 
held in the business account by cheque to Mr W on the same day they closed it; however, 
Mr W says he didnt receive the cheque for his personal account until around two weeks 
after their decision to close.
Mr W said being without access to his accounts caused significant distress for him as an 
individual  and for the reputation of his business. He complained to Santander, but they 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our adjudicator looked at things and thought 
Santander were entitled to close the account without an explanation and said they cant 
always guarantee funds in an account would be readily available.
Mr W remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me.
In February 2023, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Firstly, Ive noted that Mr W has made a number of quite detailed submissions. I dont 
believe its necessary to address each and every point that Mr W has made in order to meet 
my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, 
and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however 
that Ive considered everything that Mr W and Santander have said before reaching my 
decision.
The main issue to address is that Santander has provided us with very little evidence. We 
dont have evidence of:
The specific evidence on why they took the decision to close Mr Ws account 
immediately.
Evidence to show what caused the delay in the cheque being sent for the money 
held in Mr Ws personal account.
I respect that Santander has internal policies and processes to follow along with legal and 
regulatory obligations. But they are also aware of our rules.
DISP 3.5.2 states, amongst other things, that an Ombudsman can reach a decision on the 
basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by a complainant or a firm to 
provide information that an Ombudsman has requested; and.
Therefore, my decision is based on the evidence and information I have received.
Santander are entitled to review the account under the account terms and conditions. And a 
bank isnt generally obliged to provide an explanation as to why transactions cant be carried 
out at the moment an account holder is seeking to make them, or as to why funds are 
generally not accessible. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander acted 
in line with their legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ws 
accounts. I recognise this caused Mr W significant distress as he couldnt access his money, 
but I cant fairly conclude that Santander did anything wrong. And therefore, I cant 
reasonably uphold the complaint for this reason.
We wouldnt usually confirm a timeframe in which a bank has to carry out a review  but we 
would always consider if there were any unavoidable delays. I appreciate Mr W is unaware 
of why Santander took the actions they did  but Santander has shared information with our 
service. While Im unable to pass that information on to Mr W, Id like to reassure him that 
Im satisfied Santander had reasonable cause to carry out a review. When financial 
institutions carry out reviews, its common practice across the banking industry that the 
review will require additional information from the account holder. Often, the information 
required is related to the consumers identity, proof of entitlement to recent payments or 
more details on what the account is used for. It doesnt appear Santander asked Mr W any 
questions before finalising their review and making the decision to close the accounts.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr W decided to stop banking with Santander, he 
wouldnt have to explain why.
However, Santander can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms 
and conditions of the account. Santander have relied on the terms and conditions when 
closing Mr Ws account. The personal account and business account terms explain that the 
bank can close the account immediately  or give notice of at least two months. Ive 
considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I consider a notice period of two 
months would have been more appropriate than an immediate closure. I say that because 
Santander hasnt supplied enough evidence to satisfy me that Mr W breached any of the 
terms listed to warrant an immediate closure.
Ive thought carefully about the impact Mr Ws accounts being closed on the same day had 
compared to if he had been given two months notice. I think the required notice period 
would have allowed Mr W to switch his accounts, and inform his business clients of 
alternative account details. While I appreciate this would have still caused some disruption, I 
dont consider it would have been unreasonable. So, to recognise this inconvenience, I think 
Santander should pay Mr W compensation.
I also havent seen enough to explain why the money held in Mr Ws business account was 
sent with a cheque the same day as the closure letter  but the money held in the personal 
account wasnt sent for around two weeks afterwards. I dont doubt this caused more 
distress  and again, I think this could have been avoided had Mr W been given appropriate 
notice as he could have transferred the money himself to a new account. The loss of use of 
the money should be recognised by Santander, and I consider the fairest way to do this is to 
add 8% simple interest to the funds withheld.
Overall, based on the evidence received, I dont think Santander did enough to satisfy 
themselves that an immediate closure was reasonable in the circumstances. I havent seen 
any evidence of financial loss from Mr W so I have only considered a payment to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I think £250 compensation to be appropriate in the circumstances.
I think adding interest to the amount held in the personal account from the date they decided 
to close the account, up to the date they sent the cheque fairly compensates Mr W for the 
loss of use of his money. I dont consider this should be paid for the money held in the 
business account as the cheque was sent on the same day as the closure.
So, I thought Santander should pay 8% interest on the amount held in Mr Ws personal 
account and pay £250 compensation for the inconvenience.
Santander didnt respond with any further comments or arguments. Mr W did respond. In 
summary, he was satisfied with the 8% interest  but thought they should pay more than 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. Mr W explained that due to needing 
to open accounts with another bank, setting up new direct debits and new credit transfers he 
feels compensation in the region of £1,000 to £2,000 would be more appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont see any reason to depart from my initial findings. I appreciate Mr W 
feels more compensation is due, so Ive thought carefully about his point. I think it is useful to 
reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses 
for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service 
looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we 
decide that something has gone wrong (as I have done in Mr Ws case) we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
While I appreciate two months notice would have reduced the impact on Mr W  I still find 
he would have had to open other accounts, transfer direct debits, and set up new credit 
transfers. So, I cant reasonably agree if Santander had given the two months notice, the 
inconvenience would have disappeared entirely. Therefore, Ive had to decide on an 
appropriate amount based on what has happened. 
Putting things right
Considering the full circumstances, I cant fairly ask Santander to pay more compensation 
than £250 as I havent seen anything to satisfy me that compensation in the region of what 
Mr W is asking for is warranted. I think £250 fairly reflects the inconvenience caused. 
I am also satisfied the 8% simple interest recognises the loss of use of funds by Mr W not 
having access to his money when he should have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Santander UK Plc 
should:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount held in Mr Ws personal account. 
They should calculate this from the date they decided to close the account up to the 
date they sent the cheque to Mr W.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to withhold income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Santander should give Mr W a certificate showing how 
much tax is taken off if Mr W asks for one.
Pay £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman