DRN-3273192
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his property insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited in 
relation to repairs it began at his home after it was damaged in a fire. 
What happened
Mr Gs home was damaged in a fire in early December 2020. The fire started in the porch, 
which was quite badly affected by flames and smoke spread through the whole house. Mr G 
has explained that if he hadnt woken-up when he did, the incident would have ended in 
tragedy. 
Mr G made a claim to Admiral and it began assessing it. Following some enquiries and 
delays caused by the pandemic, the reinstatement work was due to start in March 2021 and 
complete in mid-June. Work did start as agreed but Mr G quickly became concerned about 
the standard of work being completed. Admiral looked into it, agreed the work was not to 
standard and offered £250 compensation. But Mr G was concerned about resolving the work 
and that, as it was now near the end of May, it looked unlikely hed get home in mid-June as 
had been expected. Admiral wrote a final response to Mr G, dated 14 June 2021, which said 
it didnt agree work was poor, as such. Rather there were things that needed finishing and 
things would then be alright. So, Admiral said, it wasnt upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G complained to us. And, following our investigators involvement, Admiral said it would 
pay Mr G a total of £750 compensation for the upset it now accepted it had caused him to 
the point of its written response on 14 June 2021. Mr G, noting how things had progressed, 
or rather failed to, since the final response, felt £750 was not enough. He said that even just 
looking at what had happened before 14 June 2021, that was not enough. Mr G explained 
hed spent hours emailing and calling Admiral as well as taking holidays from work in order 
to try and progress things. He said hed been so hoping to get home and to try and put the 
fire behind him, but Admirals poor work had prevented that from happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do think Admiral failed Mr G and that its failures caused him a substantial 
amount of upset. But I note that, from what Mr G has told us, further issues arose, which 
caused him further distress after the 14 June 2021 final response. I understand that, for 
Mr G, this is all one event  but, as our investigator explained, I cant get into what happened 
after 14 June 2021 in this decision under this complaint reference. I have to draw a line at 
that point  consider what Admiral did wrong until that point, what upset that caused Mr G 
and what I think fair and reasonable compensation for that is. And in doing that Ill take into 
account this services approach to compensation awards, as well as the level of awards 
weve made in similar cases. 
I note that Mr Gs concerns about Admirals handling of this claim began with work starting in 
March 2021. Mr G noted work was poor and Admiral initially accepted that. For example, its 
file shows it acknowledged that the windows were so poor it was going to have the 
contractor take the cost of them off the repair bill. And because Mr G had identified poor 
work which then had to be investigated that prevented the reinstatement work from 
progressing. So Admirals poor work meant that Mr G was never going to be able to return 
home as planned in mid-June 2021. 
I absolutely understand how upsetting this was for Mr G. And that whilst the claim dragged 
on for Mr G, so did the trauma hed faced in the fire. By early June 2021 Mr G should have 
been looking forward to soon moving into his repaired home and being able to start putting 
the fire behind him. Admirals failures meant that wasnt the case.
I also acknowledge that from the point poor work was first noted by Mr G in March 2021, he 
put in a lot of time and effort to try and get things resolved. I note he had some mixed 
reactions from Admiral and I dont doubt he had to take time away from work that he 
shouldnt have needed to but for Admirals poor work. Although some in-put from him would 
always have been required.
Overall, from what I can see, whilst this was a fire that might have had the worst 
consequence for Mr G, the damage done, whilst significant, didnt actually cause complex or 
complicated damage. Not in terms of fire restoration. The flame damage, and resultant water 
damage from the fire brigade, was localised, although the smoke affected the whole house. 
But even then, that is not any different to many fires. It doesnt seem to me like it should 
have resulted in a particularly complex and time consuming reinstatement programme, that 
would necessitate lots of involvement from Mr G. At least not as much as ultimately occurred 
here. And I note it was felt that the reinstatement should have completed in about three 
months. Ive seen nothing to make me think those initial estimates were flawed, such that 
even if work had been completed to a good standard, with no delays occurring, the work 
would always have taken longer. Mr G had a reasonable expectation for work to have 
finished by mid-June and that didnt happen. And I think it was very clear to him for quite 
some time before June that the initial reinstalment deadline wasnt going to be achieved. For 
the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied Admirals failure to complete the work, to a good 
standard, on time, caused Mr G, up until 14 June 2021, I think £750 compensation is fairly 
and reasonably due. 
I know Mr G thinks that is not enough in the circumstances here, and that he says that even 
just looking at what happened until 14 June 2021. But I trust that Mr G will see from my 
comments above that Ive taken on board the effect this poor work had on him. And that hell 
also see that Ive acknowledged that he shouldnt have had to put in so much time and effort 
(in vain as it turned out) to get things sorted out. In his particular circumstances I do think 
£750 compensation is fair and reasonable for the substantial upset I accept he was caused. 
And thats even though it occurred during just this relatively short period of time  to the date 
of the June 2021 final response (although Im aware and have acknowledged that the 
failures and upset continued for Mr G for many months after). It may help Mr G to 
understand that a shorter period of failure, often results in smaller awards of compensation 
being made by this service. Where upset is caused over a few months, an award of £750 
sits at the upper end of our scale. Its often only where failings occur and upset is caused 
over a sustained period, usually lasting many months, maybe a year, that we are likely to 
award more. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mr G a total of £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused up to 14 June 2021 by its failures.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay the redress set 
out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman