DRN-3527282
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy CB Payments Ltd havent refunded money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr S invested money in what turned out to be a fraudulent investment scheme. I understand 
he lost a significant amount of money, not all of which is the subject of this complaint. 
In June 2020, Mr S opened an account with Coinbase. In doing so he actually entered into 
an agreement with two different entities  CB Payments  a Financial Conduct Authority 
authorised electronic money institution and Coinbase UK  an unregulated cryptocurrency 
service provider. For clarity, where I refer to Coinbase (rather than CB Payments or 
Coinbase UK) Im referring to the services provided by both entities. 
He transferred €25,000 from a bank account in another country to his CB Payments account. 
From there, cryptocurrency was purchased which was credited to a cryptocurrency account 
provided by Coinbase UK. From Coinbase UK the cryptocurrency was sent to a blockchain 
address presumably operated by the fraudulent investment company. 
Mr S says he opened both accounts and didnt share his login details with anyone. However, 
he said he gave control of his device to the fraudsters and they carried out the activity that 
took place on his Coinbase account.
Mr S complained to Coinbase. He said that it hadnt fulfilled its obligations to protect him 
from fraud.
Coinbase responded to his complaint. It said that it had no connection with the recipient and 
wasnt responsible for his losses. 
Mr S referred a complaint about CB Payments to our service. It said the complaint wasnt 
about it, but rather the unregulated services provided by Coinbase UK.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They were of the view that our service 
could consider the elements of Mr S complaint which related to the services provided by CB 
Payments, but not those provided by Coinbase UK. However, they didnt think CB Payments 
had made an error  as it carried out all necessary checks on Mr S and there wasnt any 
reason for it to think he was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Mr S confirmed his complaint was about CB Payments and not Coinbase UK but didnt 
agree with the investigators findings, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr S  hes clearly lost out as a result of a cruel scam. 
But, having considered this matter carefully, I dont think CB Payments have made an error. 
The starting point for my considerations is that Mr S, rather than CB Payments, is 
responsible for payments hes made himself or given someone else permission to carry out 
on his behalf. 
Mr S doesnt dispute opening his CB Payments account nor depositing funds into it. He has, 
however, said that the fraudsters had control of his device and made the cryptocurrency 
transactions from his Coinbase UK account to themselves. Hes also said that he didnt 
convert the funds in his CB Payments account and that the money he transferred to CB 
Payments was stolen. Ive thought about this carefully but Im unable to conclude that the 
only transaction I can consider (the purchase of cryptocurrency) took place without Mr S 
consent. Thats because at the time Mr S believed that he was investing in a genuine 
investment firm. He seemingly opened his Coinbase account for the purpose of sending 
cryptocurrency to the investment fraudsters and his account of events also confirms that he 
agreed to make this €25,000 investment. So, while I can accept it may have been the 
fraudsters that actually carried out the transaction, Im satisfied that Mr S consented to it. 
 
However, I agree with Mr S that, in line with good industry practice, CB Payments should 
monitor its customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm. This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are 
unusual or out of character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry 
out additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. But, theres no obligation on CB Payments to question each and every payment a 
customer makes. So, the question here is whether the activity which did take place was so 
unusual and out of character that CB Payments ought to have realised that Mr S was at risk 
of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive first considered whether there was anything about the account opening that ought to 
have given CB Payments concern. It has provided a copy of what appears to be a valid 
identity document for Mr S. But, in any case, theres no dispute that it was Mr S that opened 
the account and that the source of his funds was entirely legitimate. So, I cant see any 
reason for CB Payments to have been concerned about the opening of his account or the 
deposit of funds. There is no obligation on CB Payments to make detailed enquiries of every 
customer at account opening.
Ive gone onto consider whether there was anything about the transaction carried out by Mr 
S that ought to have given CB Payments cause for concern. As Mr S account had only been 
opened a few weeks before (with only a single small deposit), there was essentially no 
previous activity to compare his spending against. It would, therefore, have been difficult for 
CB Payments to identify the fraudulent activity as being atypical or concerning. Im also 
conscious that a CB Payments account can only really be used for one purpose  to 
purchase cryptocurrency. It follows that, in the absence of any other cause for concern, 
activity of this nature is unlikely to stand out as being unusual to CB Payments.
It is also important to note that the purchase of cryptocurrency was, in effect, a transfer 
between two accounts which Mr S controlled and, therefore, much less likely to be 
considered a risk by CB Payments.
So, overall, I cant see any reason why CB Payments should have been concerned about 
the payment Mr S made and I dont think it made a mistake by allowing it to proceed.
Finally, there was no prospect of CB Payments recovering the funds for Mr S, as they were 
sent to an anonymous blockchain address through the Coinbase UK platform.I know this will be very disappointing for Mr S, but I dont think it has acted unfairly by 
declining to reimburse his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman