DRN-1609894
The complaint
Mr D complains he was told by Virgin Money plc that if he spent £1,000 a month for three 
months he would receive 18,000 bonus miles. But Virgin Money plc later told Mr D he didnt 
qualify for the offer. 
What happened
Mr D contacted Virgin Money around August 2018 to check whether his credit card qualified 
for a bonus miles promotion. Virgin Money told Mr D that if he spent £1,000 a month for 
three months he would earn 18,000 bonus miles. 
For the next three months Mr D spent £1,000 but Virgin Money didnt give him the bonus 
miles. Mr D complained and Virgin Money paid him £106 and apologised. Virgin Money 
explained that Mr Ds credit card didnt qualify for the bonus miles incentive so it couldnt 
credit them to him. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Virgin Money had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly, so they didnt ask it 
to do anything else. Mr D asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background to this case as I think all parties 
broadly agree about the key events and what happened. Mr D says Virgin Money incorrectly 
advised that he qualified for an bonus miles offer. Virgin Money accepts it provided incorrect 
information to Mr D. I now need to decide how to fairly resolve this complaint and whether 
Virgin Money should credit Mr D with the disputed bonus miles. 
Our approach to complaints is to try and put the consumer back into the position they 
wouldve been in had no mistake occurred. I understand that, to resolve the complaint, Mr D 
wants Virgin Money to credit him with the bonus miles. But Virgin Money has sent us a copy 
of Mr Ds credit card terms. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but theres nothing in the terms of 
his credit card that says he qualifies for the bonus miles he discussed with Virgin Money. 
The error here was that Mr D was incorrectly advised on two occasions that he qualified for a 
promotion that wasnt applicable to him. I wouldnt expect Virgin Money to be bound by a 
genuine error and Im satisfied thats what has happened in this case. 
I agree that the service provided to Mr D was poor. He was given the wrong information by 
two separate people at Virgin Money and has told us he changed his spending habits as a 
result. As Ive said, Mr D wasnt entitled to the bonus miles so Im not telling Virgin Money to 
credit them to him. Virgin Money paid Mr D £106 and apologised for giving him incorrect 
information. Im satisfied that £106 takes the impact of Virgin Moneys error into account and is fair in all the circumstances. As I think Virgin Money has dealt with this complaint fairly, Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because Virgin Money plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman