DRN-4073639
The complaint
Mr B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of his motor insurance claim. He 
says AXAs approved repairers caused damage to his vehicle.  
AXA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As AXA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr B made a claim under his motor insurance policy with AXA after his vehicle 
was vandalised.
AXA arranged for repairs to be carried out by its approved repairers. After his vehicle was 
returned to him, Mr B complained that there was rust on the rear of his vehicle, which he 
said wasnt there prior to the vehicle being taken in for repairs.
AXA arranged for Mr Bs vehicle to be inspected by an independent engineer. It told Mr B it 
would reinvestigate the complaint if the report was seen in Mr Bs favour.
Mr B asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator thought his complaint should 
be upheld. She recommended AXA arrange for rectification work to be carried out on Mr Bs 
vehicle and pay him £100 for distress and inconvenience.
AXA accepted our investigators outcome. However, Mr B didnt think the redress our 
investigator had recommended was enough to put things right. He raised some additional 
points about AXAs handling of his claim. He said there was a delay in AXA providing him 
with a courtesy car after his vehicle was taken away, which meant hed had to pay for taxis. 
He also said that AXA had lost his vehicle and he didnt know where it was for about a 
month.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs additional points but didnt think AXA needed to do 
anything more than shed previously recommended. She concluded that AXA had already 
paid Mr B sufficient compensation for the delay in getting him a courtesy car. She said she 
hadnt seen anything to show that Mr Bs vehicle had been lost.
As Mr B didnt agree with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
I can see that Mr B raised concerns about the quality of repairs to his vehicle after it was 
returned to him in November 2022. AXAs notes suggest the repairing garage disputed being 
responsible for the rust on the vehicle.
AXA arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the vehicle. The inspection was 
carried out in December 2022. According to the engineers report, he reached the following 
conclusion:
The spoiler requires removal and possible replacement as it may be distorted and the upper 
tailgate preparing and repairing of the affected areas. The original repairer has supplied 
images of the damage to the tailgate, of the spoiler and images of the vehicle condition prior 
to repairs. There are no images to suggest the corrosion to the tailgate edges are pre-
incident. Therefore the Insured version of events may need to be accepted.
AXA has accepted our investigators recommendation to carry out repairs in line with the 
engineers conclusion. I think this is reasonable. 
AXA has also agreed to pay Mr B the £100 our investigator recommended for distress and 
inconvenience. However, Mr B has told us that he doesnt think this is enough to 
compensate him for the poor service he received from AXA. 
Mr B has expressed concerns that AXA didnt provide him with a hire car until about six 
weeks after he made the claim. From what I can see, Mr B didnt take out the courtesy car 
option with his policy. The terms of the policy only entitled Mr B to be provided with a 
courtesy car whilst his car was undergoing repair, subject to the repairers terms and 
conditions.
 
It looks like AXA agreed to arrange a hire car for Mr B prior to repairs being completed due 
to his disabilities. However, the hire car company didnt have the specific specification of 
vehicle available for a couple of weeks. There was a further delay in a hire car being 
provided because Mr B didnt attend an appointment that had been made for him.
Mr B says he had to spend a lot of money on taxis while he was waiting for the hire car. He 
hasnt provided evidence of these costs. In any event, Im not persuaded AXA is responsible 
for covering Mr Bs travel expenses, given that the terms dont appear to have entitled him to 
the hire car. AXA has already paid Mr B £100 compensation for the delay in providing the 
hire car. And I think this fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience AXA is responsible 
for.
Mr B has also commented that AXA lost his car for around a month after it was taken from 
him. Mr B might not have been aware of the location of his car. But I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest it had gone missing. 
Having considered Mr Bs additional points, I think the additional £100 AXA has agreed to 
pay him for distress and inconvenience it caused is fair. It was no doubt upsetting for Mr B to 
have his car returned to him in the condition it was. And he spent time on the phone trying to 
get it sorted out. I also think that AXA should have done more to resolve things sooner. 
There appears to have been around a two month delay in AXA receiving the engineers 
report from its agents. 
However, AXA has now agreed to arrange for rectification work on Mr Bs vehicle to be 
completed. Its already paid Mr B £100 for the delay in providing the hire car, and I think an 
additional £100 is a reasonable amount to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of the poor repairs.Putting things right
AXA should:
Arrange for repairs to be carried out on Mr Bs vehicle in line with the engineers 
conclusion.
Pay Mr B £100 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman