DRN-2592482
The complaint
Mr T complains about some advice he received from Tony Revans trading as Tony Revans 
Financial Planning (TRFP) regarding the transfer of pension benefits from an occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension plan. He told TRFP that, after a period of reflection, 
he was concerned that the advice hed received might have been unsuitable.   
What happened
Mr T held defined pension benefits (DB) within an occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
He also had other pension savings with that scheme that were held on a defined contribution 
basis, and he continued to make contributions to that part of the scheme. The advice that 
TRFP gave to Mr T only related to the pension savings he held within the DB part of the 
OPS. At the time the advice was provided Mr T was aged 47 years.  
TRFP met with Mr T in the latter part of 2017 to gather information about his circumstances. 
I understand that the meetings were set up after TRFP had provided similar advice to Mr Ts 
ex-wife who had also held pension benefits within the OPS. Following those meetings TRFP 
recommended to Mr T that he should transfer his DB pension savings from the OPS to a 
new personal pension plan. Mr T accepted the recommendation and the benefits were 
transferred in February 2018.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
advice TRFP had provided had been suitable. He didnt think it was in Mr Ts best interests 
to transfer his DB pension savings. So he thought the complaint should be upheld and he 
asked TRFP to pay Mr T some compensation.
TRFP didnt agree with that assessment. It thought that it had provided detailed information 
to Mr T that allowed him to make an informed decision about the transfer. It said that the 
expected pension from the DB scheme would be insufficient to allow Mr T to meet his 
objectives in the early stages of his retirement and so transferring to a personal pension was 
entirely appropriate for his circumstances. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr T accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by TRFP. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I should firstly clarify the complaint I am considering in this decision. TRFP has said 
that it thinks our adjudicator misunderstood the complaint the Mr T actually made. It says 
that the complaint was more about whether Mr T had been made sufficiently aware that he 
was moving his pension savings from a guaranteed, inflation proof environment into a 
personal pension where the returns are unknown, not guaranteed, and subject to the 
volatility of the markets.
As TRFP will be aware, unlike the Courts, I am not limited to looking only at the issues a 
consumer has focused on in their complaint. Our approach is "inquisitorial" - rather than the 
"adversarial" procedures of the courts, where the lawyers for the two sides "fight it out". By 
law, I am required to resolve complaints fairly. This means I decide what questions to ask to 
get to the bottom of things. And it means I can concentrate on the relevant facts of the case, 
rather than the complaint as presented.
Here I am entirely satisfied that I should consider the entire advice process, not only looking 
at the information that Mr T was given about the transfer he made, but considering whether 
or not it was right for TRFP to give the advice that it did. And, although it isnt necessary for 
me to reach this conclusion, I do think that the complaint that Mr T actually made was 
regarding the advice he was given.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R requires a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time TRFP advised Mr T were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like TRFP, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, TRFP 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ts 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to     
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
It seems to me that TRFP did much of what it needed to in terms of the information it 
gathered from Mr T, and the analysis it performed. But that isnt enough. It also needed to 
ensure that the recommendation it gave was in the best interests of Mr T. I dont have any 
concerns that he was given the relevant information on which he might base a decision. But 
I think the overwhelming factor in Mr T reaching that decision would have been the 
recommendation that TRFP gave him. He was after all paying TRFP to provide its 
professional opinion about whether it would be in his best interests to complete the transfer.
Much of the analysis that TRFP is required to perform looks at whether Mr T would be able 
to replicate the guaranteed benefits offered by the OPS via a personal pension. Clearly in 
order to reach that conclusion a number of assumptions need to be made regarding matters 
such as investment performance, and future rates of inflation. So I accept what TRFP has 
said about any advice it gave needing to take account of a far wider set of circumstances.
But, based on the financial analysis alone, TRFP itself concluded that the transfer to a 
personal pension would leave Mr T unable to replicate the benefits that the OPS guaranteed to him. I think that in itself might have started some alarm bells to begin ringing. The 
regulator expected that TRFP would need to positively show that any transfer would be in 
Mr Ts best interests before recommending that he proceed.
TRFP has said that the OPS benefits didnt provide the timing or format of pension payment 
to fit Mr Ts circumstances. It says that he wanted to retire at age 55 due to disillusionment 
with his job. And he wanted to take advantage of a higher income at the start of his 
retirement when he was young and healthy enough to enjoy it. 
But of course that course of action would potentially put pressure on Mr Ts available income 
later in his retirement. I havent seen anything for example that would suggest Mr Ts life 
expectancy was impaired through ill health, or that he had any expectation of significant 
additional income or capital becoming available later in life. So I think TRFP needed to take 
great care to ensure that Mr T fully considered how he might use any pension savings 
across the whole of his retirement.
I think of greatest concern to me here was that TRFP was basing its recommendation on 
Mr Ts expectations of what his circumstances would be several years hence. Its 
recommendation was proposing that he give up valuable guarantees that he might find 
useful in the following years. And, from TRFPs own submissions that appears to be what 
has actually happened. By way of further explanation I reproduce in full a paragraph from 
TRFPs response to our adjudicators assessment. TRFP said;
Mr T clearly understood the specifics of his transfer recommendation, and that this 
was based on personal circumstances and requirements. What has happened here 
is that his personal circumstances have changed beyond belief in the couple of years 
after completion of the transfers, we cannot be held responsible for him simply 
deciding now that it does not suit his circumstances any longer after they had 
changed. We advised at the time, which was all that we could have done under the 
circumstances. Somewhat akin to a client buying a small car but 2 years later having 
increased the size of his family he needs a bigger car, he couldnt reverse the original 
car purchase on the basis that his circumstances have changed? The principal is the 
same here, the clients circumstances have changed beyond recognition.
I dont have any specific details about any changes in Mr Ts circumstances. And I dont 
need to have those details as basing any decision here on the hindsight that TRFP is 
suggesting would clearly be unreasonable. But taking the same analogy as TRFP has used 
in its response leads me to conclude the following. Here, Mr T wasnt buying a car to be 
used at that time. He was buying a car to be used in a minimum of eight years time  for the 
intervening period he would simply store it in his garage. So, unless there were specific 
reasons why that car had to be bought at that time, I think any reasonable person would 
conclude that Mr T should have waited to buy the car until nearer the time he would use it, 
and when he had a clearer idea of his circumstances.
I havent seen anything that makes me think it would have been inappropriate for Mr T to 
defer making his decision about transferring his benefits from the OPS. It doesnt seem for 
example that his transfer value was enhanced in a time limited offer. Or that the sponsoring 
employer of the OPS was likely to face any significant financial difficulties that might lead to 
the OPS being transferred to the Pension Protection Fund. So there doesnt seem to have 
been any time pressure on the decision that Mr T needed to make.The direct financial comparisons in making the transfer didnt support the recommendation 
that TRFP made. So the basis on which that recommendation was made was entirely reliant 
on Mr Ts expectation of what his plans might be eight years later. I think there was an 
inherent danger in making an irrevocable decision based on those expectations at a time 
that decision didnt need to be made. Whilst, at that time, hed told TRFP what he thought his 
needs might be in retirement, it was still some considerable time before those would come to 
pass. 
So I dont think the recommendation that TRFP made was in Mr Ts best interests. I think he 
should instead have been advised to delay making a decision to give up the valuable 
guarantees that the OPS provided until closer to his intended retirement date. I dont think it 
was sufficient for TRFP to simply provide information to Mr T and expect him to take 
responsibility for making the transfer decision. So TRFP needs to put things right for Mr T. 
Putting things right
The ideal scenario would be for Mr T to be reinstated into the OPS that he was advised to 
leave. Based on my experience I think that it is unlikely that the administrators of that 
scheme will allow Mr T to re-join. But in the first instance TRFP should make contact with the 
OPS and seek Mr Ts reinstatement. If that is allowed, TRFP should pay any fees, or 
penalties for loss of investment returns, that the OPS imposes as a condition of re-joining.
But if, in what I think is the most likely scenario, the OPS refuses to allow Mr T to re-join the 
scheme TRFP must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
TRFP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
TRFP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TRFP 
to pay Mr T. Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Tony Revans trading as 
Tony Revans Financial Planning to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman