DRN-2412014
The complaint
Miss M complains about a personal loan provided to her by Madison CF UK Limited, trading 
as 118 118 Money, (Madison) which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
Madison provided Miss M with a loan of £3,500 on 31 August 2018. The interest rate was 
169.9% APR. The loan was to be repaid over 24 months with monthly repayments of 
£351.22. If Miss M made each payment when it was due, shed pay £8,429.28 in total. Ive 
not seen a recent account statement, but it appears that the loan hasnt yet been repaid.  
Miss M said that she was concerned that at no point were appropriate affordability checks 
made. This has put her in a difficult financial position as her income and expenditure were at 
no point verified and her repayments are causing her financial hardship. She said that she 
understated some of her expenses when she applied for her loan as she wasnt aware what 
she was spending. She has had to take out additional borrowing to assist with making her 
repayments.
Madison said that its affordability assessment confirmed that Miss M had enough disposable 
income to pay the loan repayments and to continue to have disposable income for the rest of 
the month. In its final response letter, Madison said that it was satisfied it acted correctly in 
approving Miss Ms loan application and it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator initially assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. At the 
time of her view, she hadnt received Madisons business file. Madison then provided its 
business file.
Our adjudicator then issued a second view. She again upheld the complaint. She noted that 
Madison would have seen in its credit checks that in May 2018, Miss M had gone over her 
credit limit on a mail order account. She had also taken out £420 in cash advances in the 
twelve months before the loan was taken out. Based on this, the adjudicator said it wouldve 
been reasonable for Madison to have verified the information it had about Miss Ms income 
and expenses. If it had done so, the adjudicator said that looking at the evidence provided by 
Miss M, the checks would most likely have shown that Miss M was unable to afford the 
repayments and unable to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
Madison disagreed. It said that the loan was for consolidation, and as such, had Miss M 
used the loan funds for the purpose intended, this would have settled over 80% of the active 
credit on file and as such, would have freed up more disposable income. It acknowledged 
that Miss M went over the limit of her mail order account in May 2018. But it said that the 
limit on the account had been reduced for the previous few months and Miss M had brought 
the account into line in June 2018 when the balance was reduced to £729. So, it felt that this 
was a small issue that was quickly resolved.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it had come to me, an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss M 
and to Madison on 5 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when Madison lent to Miss M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged Madison to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, 
this meant that Madison needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner 
over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Madison had to think about whether Miss M 
could sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on 
Miss M. 
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ms case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did Madison complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ms loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown?
- Did Madison make a fair lending decision?Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Madison gathered some information from Miss M before it agreed the loan. I could see that 
Madison had asked Miss M for information about her circumstances and about her income 
and expenses. It had also carried out a credit check. But in the circumstances, I didnt think 
the checks Madison did before agreeing to lend to Miss M were reasonable or proportionate 
and I explained why.
Madisons business file showed that Miss M was living with her parents and had no 
dependents. Shed said her income was £1,500. She paid no rent or other bills and declared 
her monthly expenses as £250 for card payments. Shed said she wanted the loan for debt 
consolidation. 
I could see from Madisons notes that it had increased Miss Ms expenditure to £465 for rent 
and other regular outgoings. It had also increased her credit expenditure to £271.80 after 
carrying out its credit check. 
I could see that Madisons credit check showed that Miss M had nine active accounts and 
that shed opened two accounts in the previous six months. Miss M had opened two 
unsecured loan accounts totalling £2,600 in the previous eight months for which she was 
paying £174 each month. She also had two credit cards, the balances of which were near 
their respective limits of £450 and £800. She had two current accounts near their respective 
overdraft limits of £50 and £250. And she had a mail order account on which she had a 
balance of £753. Madison had noted that Miss Ms accounts were well conducted at the time 
of application. And as it had calculated that Miss M had a disposable income of £763.20, it 
thought its monthly loan repayments of £351.22 would be affordable for Miss M.
Id noted that our adjudicator thought better checks were needed because of Miss M being 
over the credit limit on a mail order account three months previously. I could see that 
Madison had considered this and noted that the limit on the account had been reduced for 
the previous few months and Miss M had brought the account into line in June 2018 when 
the balance was reduced to £729. I could see that this was under the limit for that month of 
£850 and that the balance for July 2018 was also comfortably under the limit for the account. 
So, I agreed with Madison that this issue was quickly resolved and shouldnt have caused it 
concerns.
But Miss M was entering into an expensive loan. And I didnt think it was reasonable for 
Madison to rely on the information provided by Miss M without verifying it given the cost of 
the credit, that she needed to be able to meet this level of repayment for 24 months, and that 
her finances in its credit check were showing signs of possible strain. Madison didnt say that 
it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think the checks Madison carried out on this 
occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Miss Ms complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown Madison 
that Miss M couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Miss Ms bank statements 
to see what better checks would have shown Madison.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Miss M had provided her bank statements from around the time shed applied for the loan. I 
wasnt suggesting that this was the check that Madison should have done. But Id thought 
that looking at her bank statements gave me the best picture of what the lender should have 
seen. 
Id noted that Miss Ms monthly income payment received on the day of the loan was around 
the amount shed declared to Madison when applying for the loan. Id also noted that in her 
monthly budget for August 2018, Miss M had showed her total income as £1,879.50 
including £200 for a weekend job. I had seen cash of £200 being paid into her account on 
her bank statements. So, it appeared that Miss Ms income was higher than shed declared 
to Madison.
But the July and August 2018 statements also showed that Miss Ms outgoings were higher 
than those shed declared to Madison. The most notable outgoings were payments for credit 
commitments which totalled around £382 in August 2018. These were around £100 higher 
than the amount assessed by Madison. Id also used Miss Ms statements for July and      
August 2018 to understand her normal monthly living costs and regular and short term 
financial commitments. 
Id also considered that Miss Ms financial commitments were likely to be lower going 
forward as shed told Madison that she was planning to use her loan for consolidating her 
borrowing.
 
Id also taken into account that Miss M had told Madison that she was single, living with her 
parents and had no dependents. Shed also told the lender that she wasnt paying rent or 
other usual household outgoings. 
When Madison completed its original creditworthiness assessment, it had calculated that 
Miss M had approximately £763 disposable income. Based on what Id seen, Id thought 
Miss Ms disposable income was somewhat lower than this. But overall, I wasnt persuaded 
that better checks would reasonably have led Madison to conclude that it shouldnt have lent 
to Miss M. I didnt think the bank statements showed any obvious evidence that Miss M was 
facing problems managing her finances and that she would be unlikely to be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner. In particular Id noted that Miss M had no short term loans 
and there was no evidence of gambling. And I didnt think her finances would have appeared 
under so much pressure that Madison should have declined her application.
Miss M had also sent us her monthly budgets at the time shed taken out the loan. Id 
appreciated that these showed that Miss Ms finances were under pressure. But that wasnt 
something shed told Madison when shed asked for the loan. And I didnt think it was 
something that I thought Madison would have seen from proportionate checks.
So, If Madison had done what I considered to be proportionate checks I thought it would 
have been reasonable for it to conclude that the loan would be sustainable for Miss M based 
on what it could have seen on her bank statements and considering what shed said about 
consolidating her borrowing. Id noted that Miss M did in fact use her loan to repay her two  
loans totalling £2,600 for which shed been paying £174 per month. So, her overheads had 
reduced following the loan. Shed also kept around £900 from the loan in her current 
account. I could see that this ought to have assisted in reducing her overdraft.
Subject to any further representations by Miss M or Madison my provisional decision was 
that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I thought that while Madison could have done 
more before lending, it was likely to have found that Miss Ms circumstances at the time 
suggested that the loan was sustainable. So, I wasnt persuaded that Madison had lent 
irresponsibly.
Id said that I was sorry that this wasnt the outcome Miss M was hoping for. I realised she 
would be disappointed but taking everything together I hadnt seen enough for me to have 
concluded that I should have upheld her complaint.Id also said that I understood that Miss M had been furloughed but that she was now back 
working again and had been able to make her September 2020 loan repayment. But if    
Miss M was furloughed again and unable to make her repayments, Id urged her to contact 
Madison about this.
Miss M didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Madison responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss M and Madison have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
If Miss M is experiencing financial difficulties, I would remind Madison of its responsibility to 
treat her in a positive and sympathetic manner about the amounts she should repay.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman