DRN-1852200
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about two payments that he made to a company which turned out to be 
fraudulent. He thinks that his bank, TSB Bank plc, should have done more to warn him about 
the risks. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr M was trying to book flights. He found a company that appeared to be 
offering the flights he wanted. He was however concerned about fraud so, before making 
any payment, he contacted TSB to see what it could do to address those concerns. TSB told 
him that the account details he provided related to Prepay Technologies Ltd, a payment 
service provider and operator of mobile bank accounts. TSB didn't provide any information 
about Prepay Technologies Ltd's customer, but suggested that Mr M check with the flight 
company if he was concerned. It also directed Mr M to other sources of information about 
fraud and scams. 
Mr M made two payments to the flight company, of £400 and £500. He received nothing in 
return and believes he's been the victim of a scam. 
Mr M contacted TSB, which in turn sought the return of the money. By the time it was made 
aware of what had happened, however, the money had been removed from the receiving 
account. TSB said that in the circumstances it couldn't do anything to help Mr M.
Mr M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
broadly agreed with TSB, however, that it wasn't responsible for Mr M's losses. Mr M asked 
that an ombudsman review the investigator's findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however come to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I accept that Mr M has been the victim of a scam, and that he has lost £900 as a result. It 
appears that he made payments for services that weren't provided and which there was 
never any intention to provide. He did however authorise those payments; generally, I would 
expect a bank to make payments which its customer asks it to make, and that's what 
TSB did in this case. 
However, where a customer says they've been a victim of a scam of the type I've described 
here, I'd also expect their bank to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money lost. 
Again, I believe TSB did that in this case. It's unfortunate that it was unable to recover 
anything, but I'm satisfied it made appropriate efforts to do so. But Mr M also points out that he contacted TSB to check the payments before he made 
them. He doesn't think TSB did enough to tell him about the various types of fraud so that he 
could decide whether or not to go ahead. 
TSB did tell Mr M as much as it could about the receiving payment institution, but I don't 
believe it could have told him any more about the business to which he thought he was 
making payment. It certainly didn't suggest that he could safely make the payments. I note 
that it directed him to general information about fraud. It didn't tell Mr M about all possible 
types of fraud, but I don't believe it would have possible for it to do so. The primary 
responsibility for ensuring the transaction was genuine lay in my view with Mr M - who knew 
very much more about the circumstances of the payment than TSB did. I don't believe I can 
fairly conclude that the bank should have identified a fraudulent operation when Mr M didn't. 
For these reasons, I can't fairly conclude that TSB should cover Mr M's losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require TSB Bank plc to do anything further to resolve Mr M's 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22July2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman