DRN-2403146
The complaint
Mr C and Miss H have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account, called an Additions account, and also a package of additional 
benefits, called a Tech Pack. 
Barclays charged Mr C and Miss H a monthly fee for the Additions account and for the Tech 
Pack and provided several potential benefits in return. Mr C and Miss H think that Barclays 
should refund them all the fees they paid, plus interest. 
What happened
At different times, the account to which this complaint relates has been in the sole name of 
Miss H and in the joint names of her and Mr C. Throughout our investigation, almost all 
correspondence has come from Miss H, and I understand that some of the relevant events 
didnt involve Mr C. However, Mr C and Miss H have brought the complaint to us jointly and 
both have given us their permission to investigate it. So, this is a joint complaint and I have 
referred to them jointly throughout this decision. 
Mr C and Miss H have been customers of Barclays for a long time. Barclays does not have 
full details of exactly when they opened their first account and precisely when it sold them 
the Additions account. But from the information it does hold, it has told us that their account 
history is probably as follows:
they first opened an account with Barclays, which didnt have a fee, during the 1990s,
by 1998 (possibly as early as 1996), Barclays had sold them the Additions account, 
which replaced their fee-free account, and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in February 2013, Barclays sold them the Tech Pack, which replaced the Additions 
account and for which Barclays charged a lower fee,
in 2019, Mr C and Miss H switched back to a fee-free account. 
Mr C and Miss H seem to have accepted this account history and I have taken it to be 
correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr C and Miss Hs complaint and didnt think 
that Barclays had mis-sold them the Additions account or the Tech Pack. Mr C and Miss H 
didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr C and Miss Hs 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mr C and Miss H and Barclays have told us or 
sent us about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Barclays, along with other banks, can sell packaged bank accounts in two ways. It can do so 
without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an 
advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Barclays used for Mr C and Miss H, 
as well as giving them a choice, I would have expected it to tell them about the cost and 
benefits of the Additions account, and then the Travel Pack, clearly and fairly; and in an 
advised sale, I would also have expected it to check if they had a potential need for the 
benefits which the account and the pack could provide before making any recommendation. 
Mr C and Miss H have raised quite similar concerns about the way Barclays sold them both 
the Additions account and the Tech Pack. However, as there was a gap of well over ten 
years between Barclays selling them the two products, I have considered the two events 
separately. 
The Additions account (sold between 1996 and 1998)
Barclays has told us that it sold the Additions account to Mr C and Miss H during a 
meeting at one of its branches and that it did so on an information-only basis. I accept 
that this was its usual practice at the time, and I havent seen anything to make me 
think it changed its approach for Mr C and Miss H. So, I have considered this part of 
the complaint to be about an information only sale.
Between 1996 and 1998, one of the main benefits that Barclays provided to customers 
with Additions accounts was to waive usage charges for overdrafts that it usually 
applied to customers with fee-free accounts. And it didnt charge Additions account 
holders any interest on the first £100 of any overdraft, whereas it charged most 
customers with fee-free accounts interest from the first pound overdrawn. Other 
potential benefits of the Additions account included use of a Will-writing service and 
use of a legal helpline. 
Depending on exactly how customers used an account, at that time, they could save 
more on the cost of an overdraft with an Additions account than they the paid in 
monthly fees
 
Mr C and Miss H have been very clear about the main point of their complaint. Theyve 
said that Barclays told them that if they wanted an overdraft, they had to buy the 
Additions account; and as they did want an overdraft, they bought it. They now think 
this was wrong and that they could have had an overdraft with their fee-free account. 
Theyve also told us that over the years they held the Additions account Barclays told 
them several times that if they went back to a fee-free account, they would lose the 
right to an overdraft, which they didnt want to do.
Firstly, I would like to clarify that Barclays frequently allowed customers with fee-free 
accounts to have overdrafts, both back in the 1990s and through to today. So, there 
was no need for Mr C and Miss H to buy an Additions account to get an overdraft. But 
the nub of their complaint is whether Barclays told them that the only way they could 
have an overdraft was to buy the Additions account. To do so would have been 
misleading and unfair. 
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what Barclays said, or didnt say, to Mr C and Miss H 
about their overdraft. But as many banks in the UK, in addition to Barclays, provided 
overdrafts to customers with fee-free accounts, I doubt that it misled them in the way they have described. I think its more likely that Barclays told them about the possibly 
cheaper overdraft they could have with an Additions account. It may also have told 
them that they couldnt have this possibly cheaper overdraft with a fee-free account. 
But as this was true, it wouldnt have been misleading or unfair. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Barclays told Mr C and Miss H about the 
fees for the Additions account; and as I doubt that it told them they had to buy the 
Additions account to get an overdraft, and they obviously knew fee-free accounts were 
available, I think it probably also allowed them a choice to keep their fee-free account.
I also think that Barclays probably told Mr C and Miss H about the other potential 
benefits of the Additions account. After all, it was trying to sell the account to them, so 
it was in its own interests to tell them what they could gain by buying it. 
Over the years, Barclays changed the cost and benefits of the Additions account 
several times. For example, it added use of a car breakdown service and free mobile 
phone insurance to the potential benefits. It was allowed to do this providing it kept Mr 
C and Miss H informed, which I believe it did. It also changed the terms and conditions 
for overdrafts on both fee-free and Additions accounts, but throughout the time in 
question, it always offered lower interest rates or fees to Additions customers. I think it 
probably told Mr C and Miss H about this during any discussion, and I think this would 
have been reasonable. 
I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mr C and Miss H.
The Tech Pack (sold 2013)
Mr C and Miss H have not told us as much about the way Barclays sold them the Tech 
Pack as they have about the Additions account. But Barclays has told us that it 
recommended that they should buy the pack during a phone call, so I have considered 
this part of Mr C and Miss Hs complaint as being about an advised sale.
In 2013, Barclays allowed customers with Tech Packs similar (though not identical) 
overdraft benefits as it offered to customers with Additions accounts. But the other 
benefits were quite different. For example, the Tech Pack didnt provide a car 
breakdown service but offered insurance for other electronic gadgets as well as for 
mobile phones. At that time, the Tech Pack was around half the price of the Additions 
account.
From what Mr C and Miss H have told us throughout our investigation into this case, I 
understand that they were still interested in an overdraft. And by 2013 they had at least 
one mobile phone, or other gadget, so it seems reasonable to me for Barclays to 
recommend they should change accounts, particularly with the reduced fee. 
Barclays operated the Tech Pack slightly differently to the way it ran Additions 
accounts. It placed customers on fee-free accounts and then added the Tech Pack as 
an optional extra. It seems highly likely to me that it would have told Mr C and Miss H 
about this during the phone call, at least in outline. So, Im satisfied that Barclays 
probably allowed Mr C and Miss H a choice between the Additions account, the Tech 
pack or a fee-free account. And for similar reason to those I gave for the Additions 
account, I also think its highly likely that Barclays told Mr C and Miss H about the 
benefits of the Tech Pack. 
I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Tech Pack to Mr C and Miss H.In correspondence with us, Mr C and Miss H have pointed out that there is some uncertainty 
about what happened and so they think that we should at least tell Barclays to repay them 
half the fees they paid. I accept there is uncertainty, but as the evidence I have seen shows 
that its unlikely that Barclays mis-sold either the Additions account or the Tech Pack to Mr C 
and Miss H, I do not agree that it would be appropriate for me to tell Barclays  to make such 
a refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr C and Miss Hs complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman