DRN-1653988
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P received a renewal quote from Triton in November 2019, to renew their 
buildings and contents insurance policy. Their policy was due for renewal the same day so to 
ensure their policy remained in force, Mr and Mrs P paid the full premium by bank transfer to 
Triton. The amount paid was £416.48.
When the policy schedule was received, Mr P wanted to know a bit more information. In 
particular, he wanted to know the claim number should he need it in the future. He was 
unable to get a response from Triton, so he called the underwriter of the policy. They told
Mr P that no policy had been set up for him and no payment had been received from Triton.
Mr P tried to contact Triton, and Mr and Mrs P also took out alternative insurance with 
another provider. Mr and Mrs P were concerned their money had been taken fraudulently 
and they wanted it refunded.
They didnt hear anything from Triton and they never received their money back. So, they 
complained to Triton. Triton never responded to Mr and Mrs P, so they brought their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs P. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £416.48, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for the upset the 
matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs P have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr and Mrs P paid Triton before their policy renewed to ensure their policy remained active. 
And, once they were aware that they didnt have any insurance cover in force, they made 
sure they sought cover with an alternative insurer.  
The insurer on the policy documents Mr and Mrs P were sent have confirmed that they never 
received any payment from Triton for the policy and no cover was ever in force forMr and Mrs P. Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I 
cant provide Mr and Mrs P with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im 
satisfied Triton havent set the insurance policy up and havent passed on the insurance 
premium paid by Mr and Mrs P. And they should have refunded the money Mr and Mrs P 
paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr and Mrs P. Mr P has 
also confirmed that he tried to speak to Triton to get their money back, and he wasnt able to 
get through to anyone. None of his emails were answered. Because of this upset, its also 
reasonable for Triton to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly 
recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs P their premium of £416.48;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs P 
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman