DRN-2204592
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down her claim on her home
insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs D noticed water coming into her husbands bedroom. This was due
to a leak in the roof near the chimney. It followed high winds and heavy rain a few days
before.
When Mrs D made a claim on her home insurance, Aviva turned it down. It said Mrs Ds
builder had said there were maintenance issues with the roof and this meant the damage
was excluded from cover. It also said the cost of repairing the water damage to the bedroom
was less than Mrs Ds policy excess.
When Mrs D complained to Aviva about this, it didnt uphold her complaint. It said wear and
tear and gradual deterioration to the roof were excluded from her policy.
So Mrs D complained to us. The investigator who looked at Mrs Ds complaint upheld it. She
didnt think Aviva had done enough to show the policy exclusion for wear and tear applied to
Mrs Ds claim. She thought Aviva should reconsider it in line with the remaining policy terms.
And, if Aviva agreed the damage was caused by the storm, she said shed expect it to repair
the roof and reconsider the damage to the bedroom.
Aviva disagreed. It said there was no evidence of storm damage to Ms Ds roof.
In my provisional decision of 24 August 2020, I explained why  like our investigator  I 
intended to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. But I also explained that my view on what Aviva 
needed to do to put things right for Mrs D differed from our investigators  and so Mrs D and 
Aviva needed to have the chance to comment on my reasons.
Neither Mrs D nor Aviva has given any comments on my provisional decision, which has 
now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
My starting point is Mrs Ds home insurance policy. This covers her buildings and contents
for loss or damage caused by storm. It excludes cover for anything that happens gradually.
When we look at claims for storm damage, our approach is to ask three questions:
Was there a storm?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with a storm?
Was the storm likely to be the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three questions is yes, then its likely well uphold the complaint.
In our view, a storm is an event characterised by violent winds, usually accompanied by rain,
hail or snow. In Mrs Ds case, Aviva hasnt disputed there was a storm shortly before Mrs D
noticed the damage. And I can see internal records Aviva has sent us refer to very high
winds and rain around the time. So I think theres no doubt there was a storm. That means
the answer to the first question is yes.
I also think the type of damage Mrs D is claiming for  slipped slates and consequent water
damage inside  is consistent with the damage a storm can cause. That means the answer
to the second question is yes.
Turning to the third question, Aviva says the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
When Aviva first turned down Mrs Ds claim, it said this was because Mrs Ds builder had
fully confirmed that the repairs to [the] roof are required due to maintenance issues. It said
the repair work he was carrying out all points towards gradual deterioration and the heavy
rain only highlighted the issue.
More recently, in response to our investigators view on the complaint, Aviva has said:
From the photographs on the claim there is no evidence of storm damage, there is one
slipped slate visible and also one small section of mortar missing from the ridge that we can
see. The one slipped slate still has the slate underneath therefore there wouldnt be damage
from a single storm event and mortar would not be damaged from a one-off event.
Mrs D disputes all of this. She says shed recently had renovation work on her home costing
over £150,000. She questions why she would carry out this massive renovation and exclude
a small part of the roof which was subsequently damaged by storms.
She also says her builder denies the statements attributed to him by Aviva as totally and
utterly  contrary to what he had told Aviva. Our investigator asked Aviva for a copy of its
call with Mrs Ds builder. In the call, he says the wind is likely to have caused the damage 
he says the wind took off the chimney tray and the tray took off the slates. He says he
doesnt think its been caused over a period of time and there werent any issues before. He
also says he thinks the damage would be hard to see from below.
So, contrary to what Aviva said in its initial response to Mrs Ds complaint, her builder does
say  as Mrs D says he did  its likely the storm caused the damage. He doesnt say there
were maintenance issues with her roof.
From the information Ive got, Aviva has turned down Mrs Ds claim based primarily on a
desktop assessment of some photos of the damage (along with its incorrect understanding
of Mrs Ds builders assessment). It didnt send a loss adjuster to make a physical inspection
of the roof  even though Mrs D (and her builder, who had physically inspected it), said the
storm had caused the damage. In a case like this, where the evidence of storm damage is
disputed, I dont think it was fair and reasonable of Aviva to rely on a desktop assessment to
turn down Mrs Ds claim.
I should also say that, even if some of the damage (such as missing mortar) could be due to
wear and tear  and, to be clear, Im making no finding on this  Mrs Ds builder has said it
would be hard to see from below. So I dont think its likely applying the exclusion for wear
and tear wouldve been reasonable in Mrs Ds case anyway, had it been something I neededto consider.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think its more likely than not the storm was the
main cause of the damage. So the answer to the third question Ive asked above is yes. All
in all, I dont think Aviva has done enough to show it acted fairly and reasonably in turning
Mrs Ds claim down.
Putting things right
I set out in my provisional decision what I thought Aviva needed to do to put things right for 
Mrs D. I said:
Ive already mentioned what our investigator thought Aviva should do to put things right for
Mrs D  essentially, that it should reconsider her claim. But Mrs D got the roof and bedroom
repaired some time ago. With water leaking into Mrs D husbands bedroom  and bearing in
mind he was due to have an operation at the time  I think it was fair and reasonable for her
to do this quickly. But it means theres no damage for Aviva to assess now and so it cant
reconsider her claim.
In these circumstances, I intend to direct Aviva to reimburse Mrs D for the expense of getting
these repairs  including the internal repairs  done (minus her policy excess of £325).      
Mrs D has sent in her builders invoice for this work, which cost her £1,644 (and Im
enclosing a copy of it with the correspondence that goes with this provisional decision).
I can also see the claims process has been difficult for Mrs D. At the time of the damage, her
husband was awaiting surgery and, given it was his bedroom that was affected, it mustve
been distressing to have the extra trouble of dealing with the claim being turned down when
he was vulnerable. To have her builders position mis-represented to her and to be told the
home shed extensively renovated wasnt well maintained must also have been both
confusing and upsetting. And so I intend to direct Aviva to pay Mrs D £250 in compensation
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Mrs D and Aviva have both acknowledged my provisional decision but, as Ive said, neither 
has given me any comments on it. And Ive seen nothing to make me think I should change 
the provisional findings I set out in it. So these findings now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and direct Aviva Insurance
Limited to pay Mrs D:
£1,644 to reimburse her for the cost of the repairs to her roof and bedroom (minus
her policy excess of £325).
£250 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Aviva should pay these sums within 28 days of the date we tell it Mrs D has accepted my 
final decision. If it doesnt, it should pay interest on them at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman