DRN-2770326
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that TSB Bank plc didnt remove Mrs V from their joint account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs V have a joint current account with TSB. In July 2018 Mr V entered an IVA. Mr V 
wrote to TSB in September 2018 to say he had experienced problems logging into his online 
banking. Mr V also asked TSB to amend his account so a monthly fee would no longer 
apply. Mr V requested confirmation of how to change the joint account into a sole account. 
TSB issued a final response on 23 November 2018 and upheld the complaint. TSB said it 
could remove Mrs V from the joint account on receipt of a letter from Mr Vs IVA practitioner 
giving authorisation. 
Several months passed and TSB referred the account to its recoveries department due to 
the outstanding balance. On 18 June 2019 TSB wrote to Mrs V to say it had referred the joint 
account to a debt collection agency. On 29 June 2019 Mr Vs IVA practitioner wrote a letter 
to say removal of Mrs V would be at the discretion of TSB and that there was no objection. 
Mr V complained and TSB responded in February 2020. TSB said it hadnt heard from Mr 
Vs IVA practitioner so hadnt taken steps to remove Mrs V from the account. TSB said that 
as the account was now being handled by its recoveries department it wouldnt remove Mrs 
V from the joint account. TSB offered £25 for the delay in responding to the complaint. 
Mr V referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought TSB had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. In 
response, Mr V said he had contacted his IVA practitioner to ask for confirmation Mrs V 
could be removed from the account and assumed it had written to TSB directly. Mr V also 
said that he and Mrs V had visited a branch and asked about the process but werent given 
the right advice. Mr V said he didnt receive notification from TSB that it hadnt heard from 
his IVA practitioner with confirmation Mrs V could be removed from the account. As Mr V 
asked to appeal, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs V have told us they visited their local branch to ask questions about the process 
of removing Mrs V from the account and that they werent told about a form that was 
required. Mr and Mrs V have said theyve been trying to remove Mrs V from the account for 
a number of years. But, TSB has provided contact notes and branch records and theres no 
information that shows Mr and Mrs V made repeated requests for information about how to 
remove Mrs V from the joint account. I can see Mr V wrote to TSB in September 2018 and 
asked for information about a range of things  including how to remove Mrs V as a joint 
account holder. This is the first time I can see the issue was raised with TSB. 
TSB responded to Mr and Mrs V on 23 November 2018 and explained it needed a letter from 
the IVA practitioner before it would remove Mrs V. Mr V has told us he asked his IVA 
practitioner to contact TSB, but it didnt. Whilst I understand Mr V asked the question when 
he complained, I wouldnt expect TSB to have followed up its final response with regular 
updates as to whether it had heard from his IVA practitioner. TSB explained what information 
was required and it was then up to Mr V and his IVA practitioner to obtain it. 
Mr V says the requirement for a from to be completed to remove Mrs V wasnt correctly 
explained. But, even if the relevant form had been completed, TSB wouldve still needed 
permission from Mr Vs IVA practitioner. And that wasnt provided until late June 2019, after 
the decision to pass the account to recoveries had already been taken. 
TSB says that it was willing to remove Mrs V from the account when it responded to the 
complaint in November 2018. But the account was subsequently referred to its recoveries 
department and TSB says its now no longer willing to consider removing Mrs V. Whilst I 
appreciate TSBs position changed, its decision to refer the case to recoveries was taken 
several months after it informed Mr V what action was required.  I wouldnt expect TSB to 
wait indefinitely and Im satisfied its decision to refer the debt to a collections agent is fair 
and reasonable. 
I note TSB wrote to Mr and Mrs V about the account and that statements remained in joint 
names. So I think there was sufficient information available to show Mr and Mrs Vs account 
was still held in joint names throughout the period in question. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs V but Im satisfied TSB dealt with their complaint 
fairly. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman