DRN-3130461
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt accepted his home
insurance claim for damage to his collapsed retaining wall.
What happened
A large section of a retaining wall in Mr Hs garden collapsed in February 2019. This was
followed by a further collapse in October 2019 after which he made a claim to RSA. RSA
appointed its surveyors to inspect the wall and produce a technical report into the cause of
damage. The surveyors reported to RSA that the wall had collapsed because the ground
behind it had become saturated. They said thered been a build-up of hydrostatic pressure
that caused the wall to fail and they said the most likely source of that water was normal
rainwater run-off.
RSA wrote to Mr H in November 2019 to decline the claim on the grounds that the damage
hadnt been caused by any of the insured events listed in the policy and that, more
specifically, the damage would be excluded from cover under the policy by the wear and tear
condition.
Mr H disagreed with RSAs decision so he complained to RSA and instructed a drainage
expert of his own. Mr H said to RSA that it was the Victorian drain in the garden that had
been leaking water into the ground for some time which had likely caused the collapse.
Mr Hs drainage expert advised that there was a collapsed drain at the foot of the collapsed
wall. It said there were numerous leaks and defects along its run between the house and the
wall that had caused the damage.
RSA reviewed Mr Hs experts report and instructed its own drainage expert to inspect the
damage and provide its comments in response. RSAs drainage expert attended in late
January 2020 and surveyed the drain between the house and wall. It said it was uncertain if
the drain was in use or redundant so further investigations would be needed but it did state
that the run had partially collapsed in places.
RSA issued its final response to Mr Hs complaint in late February 2020. It said that in order
to consider the claim it needed to be shown that the damage had been caused by one of the
insured events listed in the policy. It said it had tried to assist him in attempting to establish
the cause of the damage and that its surveyor had said the lack of weep holes that wouldve
allowed the release of excess rainwater meant the retaining soils had increased in weight to
the point they caused the wall to collapse. RSA said this process was gradual and not
covered by the policy.
So RSA said that unfortunately there was no insured event under which it could consider
Mr Hs claim. It also pointed out that the late reporting of the damage had prejudiced its
position and that Mr H had left the wall between February and October 2019 with no
mitigating action or repair. So RSA said again that there was no insured event that had
caused the damage so it was unable to offer assistance on this occasion. It did say that if
Mr H wanted to challenge its decision then it suggested he appoint a professional structural
engineer to investigate and it would be happy to review any new information provided.
Mr H asked his local authoritys environmental health department to look into the matter and
it carried out some tests that showed the drain was leaking into the ground behind the wall.
As a result, Mr H said to RSA that he expected his claim to now be progressed. RSA
reviewed the information and, as a gesture of goodwill, it asked another technical specialist
to attend to carry out a dye test on the water exiting the ground by the collapsed wall. The
technical specialist reported to RSA that any water accumulation was natural and followed
rainfall rather than there being a continuous flow from the drain. RSA thought that the claim
should remain declined.
Unhappy with RSAs decision, Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator looked into
Mr Hs complaint and initially recommended that it wasnt upheld. He didnt think that the
evidence indicated that the drain was in active use such that it was the main cause of the
wall collapsing or that the damage had been caused accidentally. So he didnt think RSA
had unfairly declined the claim.
In response, Mr H sent our investigator a report dated January 2021 which hed
commissioned from a structural engineer. Mr Hs structural engineer reported that the cause
of the retaining wall failing was due to an increase in hydrostatic pressure caused by
elevated water levels and saturation of the retained soils. He said the primary cause of the
increase in water levels behind the wall was likely to have been water leakage from the
drainage system for the house.
Our investigator shared the report with RSA and it agreed to issue a second final response
letter. RSAs second final response was issued in February 2021 and it stated that it was still
unable to accept Mr Hs claim. It said that the structural engineers findings agreed with its
own as to the cause of damage: an increase in hydrostatic pressure caused by elevated
water levels and saturation of the soils which had happened gradually and wasnt the result
of a one-off insured event.
Our investigator looked at Mr Hs complaint again and recommended that it was upheld. He
thought that it had now been shown that the drain was leaking water running away from the
house into the ground behind the wall and that this was the primary contributing factor to its
collapse. Our investigator said that as the policy covered damage caused to buildings by
water escaping from fixed water systems he thought RSA should accept the claim.
Mr H accepted our investigators recommendation but RSA didnt and asked for the
complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. Whilst the complaint was waiting to
be allocated to an ombudsman RSA said it was arranging for a further survey of the site to
be carried out and asked that any decision awaited the report. The report (from a new
surveyor) was sent to our investigator in mid- August 2021 and concluded that it appeared
the collapse was due to an ongoing softening of the retained ground which eventually
resulted in slippage of that ground causing the wall to collapse. It noted the existence of
timber shoring and brick buttresses which were previous attempts to stabilise the wall so it
was clear that movement had been an ongoing issue.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision earlier this month; I 
didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
With regret for the disappointment it will cause Mr H, I dont think this is a complaint that
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage
caused by one of the insured perils (events) listed in the policy  such as fire, theft, flood,
escape of water etc.  is covered. If it can be shown that the damage is caused by any of theevents listed in the policy then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can show one of the
policy exclusions can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Here RSA has said that the damage Mr H has claimed for hasnt been caused by one of the
insured events listed in the policy. I think it is clear from the numerous reports and surveys
that Ive set out above (with the exception of the last one provided by RSA) that its generally
accepted that the wall has collapsed as a result of hydrostatic pressure having built up
behind it as a consequence of the ground being saturated over time. The source of the
saturation has been open to debate but I dont need to draw a definitive conclusion on what
caused it in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision on this complaint.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what, if any, insured event the damage
could be considered against. Unfortunately for Mr H, I dont think the damage as described
can be said to have been caused by any of the events his policy covers.
Mr Hs policy covers damage to his buildings (and the policy definition of buildings includes
walls) caused by storm or flood. There has been no suggestion, and indeed there is no
evidence, that either of these events caused the damage to the wall.
The policy also covers damage caused by water escaping from washing machines,
dishwashers, fixed water or fixed heating systems. Although some of the reports state that
there is water escaping into the ground behind the wall from a defective and leaking drain, a
drain is not a dishwasher or washing machine or a fixed water or heating system. So, whilst
the policy provides cover for damage to buildings caused by an escape of water, it must
come from one of the sources listed and a drain isnt one of them. So I dont think the
damage can be said to be covered by the escape of water peril.
There is also cover under the policy for accidental breakage of drains and pipes. Accidental
breakage isnt defined in the policy although accidental damage is. The policy defines
accidental damage to mean sudden, unexpected and visible damage which hasnt been
caused on purpose. RSA says the damage to the drain is the result of wear and tear (so not
caused suddenly or unexpectedly). In any event, even if it could be shown the drains had
been broken accidentally, consequential damage caused by water escaping which results in
movement to any part of the buildings is specifically excluded under the policy terms.
In light of the conclusions reached by RSAs last surveyors report, Ive also thought about
whether the damage to the wall could fall for consideration under the subsidence peril as the
report contained a comment that the wall had moved downwards. But whilst the policy does
provide cover for damage caused by subsidence, it excludes any damage to walls or patios
unless the home (defined as the house and any outbuildings) is damaged by the same
cause at the same time and theres no evidence that Ive seen that there has been.
It follows that I dont think that RSA has unreasonably declined Mr Hs claim for damage to
his retaining wall. I fully appreciate that the walls collapse must have caused Mr H
significant trouble and upset but despite my natural sympathies for the situation in which he 
finds himself, I cant fairly require RSA to settle a claim that isnt covered by the policy 
terms.
RSA replied to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with my provisional findings and 
had no further comments to make. 
Mr H replied to my provisional decision and made the following comments: 1. That he was surprised that his complaint hadnt been upheld particularly as our 
investigator had found in his favour largely based on the structural engineer and special 
drainage reports hed provided.
2. Both reports were written following site visits and provided reasons why the wall had 
collapsed (hydrostatic pressure) as result of broken pipes. 
3. That the provisional decision should be reassessed in light of the evidence presented 
and the cover offered by the policy for the accidental breakage of drains.
4. That the wall had collapsed due to drain failure (as agreed by the local authority 
environmental officers).
5. If buildings insurance doesnt cover unseen events such as this then a precedent is 
being set for drain failures causing open sewers as a result of inaction.
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive given careful thought to the comments made by Mr H in response to my 
provisional decision, they havent persuaded me to change my mind about the outcome of 
his complaint. Im afraid that I still think that this is a complaint that I cant fairly or reasonably 
uphold. 
This service operates a two-stage complaints process. The first stage is where a complaint 
is assessed by one of our investigators who will issue an opinion on their findings. Should 
either party to a complaint disagree with an investigators findings, they are entitled to ask for 
their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. This is what RSA requested; it disagreed 
with our investigators conclusions so it asked for the complaint to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. And its the role of the ombudsman to look at everything thats been 
provided afresh and to make their own findings; they are not bound to reach the same 
conclusion as the investigator. 
On occasion, as here, an ombudsman will reach a different view about the complaint 
outcome. And unfortunately, it is usually the case that one or other of the parties will be 
disappointed with that outcome. But an ombudsman will always explain why and, if reaching 
a different conclusion, give the parties an opportunity to comment on their findings, as I have 
done here. I appreciate that after initially being told his complaint would be upheld, Mr H is 
now surprised, and no doubt disappointed, to find it wont be. But I have explained 
provisionally why Im unable to uphold his complaint and, regrettably, no other evidence has 
been provided to alter the view Ive reached. 
I considered the reports Mr H refers to in his comments when making my provisional 
findings. And I accepted there that the wall was undoubtedly brought down by hydrostatic 
pressure. But unfortunately for Mr H, none of his comments in response to my provisional 
decision have persuaded me that, despite accepting what caused the collapse, the damage 
is covered by the policy terms. There is indeed cover under Mr Hs policy for accidental 
breakage of drains, but unfortunately the damage to the drains in Mr Hs garden happened 
as the result of wear and tear over time. Theres no evidence that the damage was caused 
accidentally. Put simply, unfortunately for Mr H, the damage isnt covered by his policy. 
I dont fully understand Mr Hs point about his damage not being covered thereby meaning a 
precedent will be set for there being open sewers. But if he is saying that uninsured damage 
to a home means it will go unrepaired and could lead to there being open sewers Im not 
sure Im able to agree. Its a householders responsibility to maintain their home. And not all the damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance in any event. But that 
doesnt mean that damage thats uninsured should go unrepaired. 
Different policies provide varying degrees of differing cover. I can only look here at Mr Hs 
specific claim and whether RSA, taking into account all the circumstances and the policy 
terms and conditions, has treated him fairly and reasonably by not covering it  and, for the 
reasons Ive given here, as well as provisionally, I think it has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman