DRN-3504428
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, (and trading as Carey 
Pensions UK LLP [Carey] at the time of the relevant events) accepting an application for a 
Self- Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and an investment in Store First, from an 
unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers (CL&P). For 
simplicity, I have referred to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP as Carey throughout this 
decision. Mrs Gs representative says that Carey showed no consideration for FSA 
Principles of business   and did not treat her fairly. Mrs Gs representative says Carey had 
a duty to carry out due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it and, had it 
done so, it ought to have been aware of various reasons not to deal with CL&P.
It says the Store First investment was unregulated, high risk, highly speculative 
and unsuitable for Mrs G.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 13 April 2022. In that decision I set out why I believed the 
complaint should be upheld. I have included the content of the provisional decision in italics 
below and the provisional decision should be read in conjunction with, and forms part of, this 
final decision. Although Carey is now Options, I will refer to Carey throughout. 
Provisional decision of 13 April 2022:
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Careys acceptance of a SIPP 
application and Store First investment application from CL&P in February 2021. That final decision 
has been published on our website under DRN5472159. I have reached my decision in this case 
independently. The published decision however sets out the general detail of Careys relationship 
with, and due diligence on, CL&P and the general detail of Store First and Careys due diligence on 
that investment, across pages 2 to 11 (up to Mr Ss dealings with CL&P and Carey). So I will rely 
on that detail set out in the published decision here, rather than repeat it  I will only include the key 
factual background of this particular complaint here.
Mrs Gs dealings with CL&P and Carey
Mrs Gs representative  says  Mrs G was advised  by CL&P  to transfer  her pension  to a 
Carey  SIPP  and then invest  in Store  First.
Before being contacted by CL&P, Mrs G had an existing defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme (OPS). Following the contact by CL&P the cash value of this pension was transferred into 
a SIPP with Carey, and the majority of the money invested in Store First. My understanding is that 
the following key events took place during Mrs Gs dealings with Carey:
Mrs G signs a Carey SIPP application form  28 March 2012.
Carey sends its welcome letter, confirming the establishment date of the SIPP  3 
April 2012.
Carey receives a transfer from Mrs Gs OPS of about £55,000 in July 2012.
Mrs G signs Careys member declaration and indemnity in respect of Store First 
(referred to as the indemnity in the published decision, using the wording quoted in 
full there)  19 September 2012.
Investment in Store First is confirmed  5 October 2012.
CL&P and Carey
The below is a chronological summary (set out in greater detail in the published decision) of the 
key events during the relationship between CL&P and Carey.
15 August 2011 - Carey begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Carey conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which allows 
subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a Zoe Adams and a 
Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P Carey initially had contact 
with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Carey asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Terence Wright.
9 December 2011- Carey had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During that call the 
issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to transfer or switch to a 
SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the following:
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when they would 
receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] confirmed that no 
clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of inducement for either 
establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that CL&P policy does not include 
offering inducements. [Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that 
clients or connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Careys Head of Service and Operation, said in an email to CL&P:
On another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance aspect I attach 
the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 which is the date 
of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and complete the terms and 
return.
The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It was signed by Ms Adams. 
23 March 2012 - Careys compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the following 
information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Carey sent an email to Ms Hallett, Careys Chief Executive, 
with the subject  03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back [reference removed]. 
That email forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a consumer, which included the 
following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum of
£1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investment
And the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said, this is the second member this 
week to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Careys compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email:
It is now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your assistance.
When asked, Carey said it has no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Carey conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report highlighted that he 
appeared on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals.25 May 2012 - Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P. Careys Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Careys decision in an email to CL&P of that date:
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements (monetary or 
otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have received enquiries as to 
when client can expect to receive their money and have today been informed by a new client that 
they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst investment purchase, which they 
confirmed was offered by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case.
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our Introducer 
Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept business from you.
In reply to this email CL&P asked, Regarding business which you have already accepted from us, 
will you still be processing this as the client's SIPPs have already been established?
28 May 2012 - Careys Ms Hallett sent the following reply to CL&P:
We will process them where we have already established the schemes, we will be writing to all 
clients informing them if they have received any monies then they must declare this to HMRC and 
their fund would also be vulnerable to a tax charge as well.
HMRC have already asked a number of SIPP providers for lists of clients who are investing in 
alternatives, they will I am sure be doing some random checks and will charge people for 
unauthorised transactions if they have received cash sums for transferring their pension and 
making investments.
I would urge you and your agents to review your position if you are continuing this as part of your 
sales process, ultimately no SIPP providers will be taking the business, it is not allowable as we 
have explained to you previously.
Submissions made by Mrs G
We asked Mrs G if she could provide answers to the following questions. The answers are 
included in italics:
Were you interested in changing your pension at the time of being contacted by 
CL&P? Why? What attracted you to CL&P? What attracted you to the Store Pod 
investment?
I was happy with where my pension was and had no interest in moving it away. I 
didnt and dont really understand pensions and what persuaded me to move was 
when I was contacted by CL&P and they told me that my current pension was doing 
nothing where it was and if I moved it I would get guaranteed returns on my 
investment and be much better off.
What role did you think CL&P had in this transaction?
I thought they were a broker who worked alongside Careys.
Did CL&P recommend any products to you? Can you recall what it said to you?
I was told about store first and that I would get guaranteed returns on the investment. I 
remember it being something like 10% return.
What was your understanding of the payment CL&P was offering? What did you think 
of this?
I thought it was the first return on what I would make on my investment, like my 
pension money.
If you had been aware that the payment might have tax consequences, what would 
you have done?
The thought never crossed my mind because it wasnt sold to me in that way. I 
wouldve called the tax office to make enquiries.If Carey had told you that Mr Terence Wright, a director of CL&P, was the subject of 
an FSA alert, what would you have done?
I would absolutely not have gone ahead with the transfer.
Carey ended its relationship with CL&P in May 2012. If you had been made aware of 
this what would you have done?
I wouldve questioned it and wondered why this had happened. It wouldve raised 
alarm bells.
What is your understanding of how the Store First investment works?
What I didnt realise at the beginning was that it was brand new. The conversation 
was very casual and I was led to believe it was a well established investment. I was 
also told of the 10% guaranteed return in the first year or two which I thought was a 
really good yield.
Did you understand the risks associated with a high risk, speculative investment? 
What are they in your own words?
I dont understand what this means but I absolutely would not have gone into 
anything high risk if I was made aware of this. I have 4 children and for this reason 
and many others I wouldve never accepted any investment that was more than 
cautious. Store First was sold to me as safe.
What was your understanding of the risks associated with the Store First investment? 
Please explain your answer fully.
I thought it was a very low risk if a risk at all investment. I was led to believe this 
because of the guaranteed returns.
What did you think Careys role was at the time?
I knew they were a pension provider as at the time I looked at them online once I 
knew I would be moving my pension to them. I saw they were an established 
company and this further lured me into a false sense of security.
Your SIPP was set up in April 2012 and your investment in Store First was made on 
5 October 2012. Were you aware that you were still free to choose whether or not to 
invest in Store First after the SIPP had been set up?
No
On 19 September 2012, you signed a Members Declaration & Indemnity (the 
indemnity) which included the following statement I am fully aware that this 
investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk and / or 
Speculative. Did you read the indemnity before signing it? What does this indemnity 
mean to you in your own words?
I cant remember reading it. I dont understand what the statement means.
Submissions made by Carey
The submissions made by Carey in this complaint are essentially the same as those 
summarised in the published decision.
The summary the published decision also includes general submissions about Careys 
relationship with CL&P. So I will rely here on the summary given in the published decision 
under Careys submissions rather than repeat the detail.
Carey also submitted in this case that Mrs G received advice from a business called The Pensions 
Specialist (TPS). It said that, when a defined benefit pension was to be transferred, it required the consumer to take advice. Mrs G had received such advice and confirmed her intention to go 
ahead with the transfer.
The investigators view
The FCAs Principles for Businesses and the regulatory publications which remind SIPP 
operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes envisaged 
by the Principles were relevant considerations here.
Carey carried out significant due diligence, but it took a piecemeal approach, and in the 
meantime accepted business from CL&P. Had it carried out all its due diligence at the 
outset, it ought to have concluded it should not accept business from CL&P at all.
Carey should have conducted background checks on the directors of CL&P at the 
outset, rather than on two members of CL&Ps staff. Had Carey checked the directors 
at the outset it would have discovered that Terence Wright was subject to a warning 
on the FSAs website.
Whilst the wording on the alert may have changed between 2010 and 2013 this didnt 
materially affect his view that Carey should have been aware that Mr Wright was 
someone who appeared on the FSAs warning list. The aim was clearly to highlight 
that this was an individual whom parties should be wary of conducting regulated 
business with and that he was targeting UK customers. So, it would have been 
appropriate for Carey to question whether accepting business from a company 
associated with Terence Wright was the right thing to do.
Had Carey completed the relevant checks before accepting business from CL&P it ought to have 
concluded that it shouldnt enter into a relationship with it.
It is not clear why Carey did not ask for accounts and identification documents at the 
outset, but only did this after the relationship had been ongoing for a number of 
months. The fact that CL&P failed to provide this information, despite reminders, was 
cause for concern. Had Carey asked at the outset and CL&P had failed to provide 
them, it should not have entered into a relationship with CL&P.
Carey was concerned CL&P was offering cash back incentives to consumers in 
December 2011. But it accepted Mrs Gs referral in April 2012. Carey had been 
aware that incentives were being offered by CL&P before it passed Mrs Gs money 
for investment. This ought to have raised serious questions about the conduct of 
CL&P and the quality of the business it was bringing about. If CL&P was offering 
consumers incentives that called into question its integrity.
Carey put some reliance on the indemnity signed by Mrs G. But it should not have 
accepted her application at all, so should not have required her to sign any 
documents. And asking Mrs G to sign the indemnity did not mean it was fair and 
reasonable to proceed with Mrs Gs investment instructions.
He thought the complaint should be upheld and that Carey should undertake a 
calculation to determine if Mrs G had suffered a financial loss.
Careys response to the investigators view
Carey did not accept the investigators assessment. In summary:
In assessing the complaint, we must take into account the overarching context of the 
relationship that Carey has with its customers, including Mrs G, being one of a self- 
invested personal pension scheme in which Carey acts on a strictly execution 
only/non-advised basis and is member-directed throughout. Carey is not permitted to, 
and does not, provide advice or otherwise comment on the suitability of investments or 
any other aspect of a customers SIPP. Carey expressly states that all customers 
should seek independent financial advice from an adviser who is regulated by the 
FCA.
The fundamental consideration that underpins the view is the contention that had 
Carey identified that Mr Terence Wright was on the FSAs warning list and informed Mrs G of this, then it should not have accepted business from CL&P, or Mrs G would 
not have proceeded with the investment.
The amended warning to which the adjudicator refers was not published on 15 
October 2010. This wording was in fact introduced subsequently and likely on or 
around 11 November 2013, almost 18 months after Carey had ceased to accept 
referrals from CL&P.
There is a material difference between the amended a warning and the relevant 
waning that was published on 15 October 2010. The wording in the FSAs notice 
published on 15 October 2010, which was available to Carey at the time it undertook 
its due diligence on CL&P, does not include any such warning stating that Terence 
(Terry) Wright is an individual to avoid or be wary of; the Notice amounts simply to a 
notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on regulated activities, a fact of 
which Carey was well aware and upon which basis it accepted referrals from CL&P. 
Carey reasonably considered at all times that CL&P was an unregulated introducer 
which was not providing advice.
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including 
an express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, but did not make 
any similar comment in the earlier Notice indicates that at the time Carey 
accepted business from CL&P the FSA did not believe Mr Wright had been 
providing financial services or products without authorisation, nor had it 
expressed concerns in this regard.
If the FSA did not consider there to be any cause for concern at the relevant time 
and there was no way through reasonable due diligence checks for Carey to 
establish any cause for concern, then plainly it is not fair or reasonable to have 
expected Carey to have rejected business from CL&P on this basis.
COBS 11.2.19R, which deals with execution only business and was in force at the 
relevant time, stated as follows:
"Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute the 
order following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps to obtain 
the best possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a 
specific aspect of an order, following specific instructions from the client relating to 
the order or the specific aspect of the order."
The significance of this rule to an execution only business, such as Carey, cannot be 
overstated. Carey would have been in breach of COBS if it had not executed Mrs G's 
specific instructions to make the investment.
The investigator considered the submission from Carey and issued a further assessment. In 
summary he said:
The FSAs/FCAs publications were relevant considerations here.
The fact that the FSA warning about Mr Wright changed between 2010 and 2013 
didnt affect his view  as the aim of the 2010 warning was to highlight Mr Wright was 
someone to be wary of dealing with and was targeting UK consumers.
He was of the view that it would have been prudent for the agreement between CL&P 
and Carey to have been signed by the CL&P directors.
The complaint would now be passed to an ombudsman for review.
Carey then provided a further submission. It said it couldnt provide a full response because, in its 
view, the investigator had not addressed its points adequately. This was particularly in respect of 
the FCAs Notice on Terence Wright, its obligations under COBS 11.2.19 and the issue as to why 
Mrs G was not being held responsible for any of the loss she had suffered.
After the published decision was issued, Carey was asked to take it into consideration, as an 
important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken 
into account when assessing other similar complaints.
On this basis, Carey was asked to review outstanding complaints involving CL&P and Store First 
 including Mrs Gs - and if it was not prepared to make a settlement offer taking account of the 
detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why it was distinguishing it from the 
published decision. Carey declined to carry out this review at this time. Mrs Gs complaint has 
therefore been passed to me for review and Im satisfied that there is no need to wait any further 
before progressing this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken 
into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. Having done so, I have reached the same view in this complaint as that set out in 
the published decision.
In short, although there are some factual differences between this complaint and the one which 
was subject to the published decision, I am satisfied the outcome detailed in the published 
decision is the fair and reasonable one to reach in this case, for the reasons set out in the 
published decision.
In my view the relevant considerations in this complaint set out in the published decision apply 
here  so I will refer to the published decision rather than repeat those considerations here.
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options 
UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply to an 
ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this means Adams is not 
a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of both judgments when 
making this decision on Mrs Gs case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams 
pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he 
argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the 
facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim 
on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that 
found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, but 
rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr 
Adams and the issues in Mrs Gs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of 
the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was not asked to consider the 
question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its 
SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, I am 
required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference 
between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which 
was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not able  to 
give advice to Mrs G on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment for her personally. 
But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to accept a particular investment 
into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from particular businesses. As the 
published decision sets out, this is consistent with Careys own understanding of its obligations at 
the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal 
pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the Court of 
Appeal judgment. However my understanding is that appeal has now been rejected. In any event, 
the grounds of appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this case. 
I am satisfied it is appropriate to determine this complaint  now.
Having carefully considered the relevant considerations I am satisfied that, in order to meet the 
appropriate standards of good industry practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and 
regulations, Carey should have carried out due diligence on CL&P to the sort of standard which 
was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the time and carried out 
due diligence on the Store First investment which was consistent with good industry practice and 
its regulatory obligations at the time. And Carey should have used the knowledge it gained from 
that due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of business or a particular 
investment.
I am also satisfied that, as in the complaint subject to the published decision, the contract between 
Carey and Mrs G does not mean that Carey should not be held responsible for failing to comply 
with its regulatory obligations to carry out adequate due diligence on CL&P and the Store First 
investment which ultimately led to Mrs G losing a significant part of her pension.
In this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published decision, Carey had obtained 
information many months before it facilitated Mrs Gs investment which led it to reject any 
further referrals from CL&P and had concerns about the Store First investment before it 
facilitated Mrs Gs investment. So in this complaint, like the complaint subject to the published 
decision, it would not be fair and reasonable to say the contract meant Carey could ignore all 
red flags and proceed with Mrs Gs business regardless.
In my view, like the complaint subject to the published decision, had Carey done what it ought to 
have done here, and drawn reasonable conclusions from what it knew or ought to have known, it 
should not have accepted either the application for Mrs Gs SIPP from CL&P or the Store First 
investment.
Due diligence on CL&P
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been privy 
to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P.
Mrs Gs application was accepted on 3 April 2012. As the published decision sets out, it is fair and 
reasonable to say by that time Carey ought to have known that CL&Ps director was Mr Terence 
Wright, and that he was on the FSAs Firms and individuals to avoid list, which was described on 
the website as a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you 
should not deal with.
Careys Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the Adams v Carey
hearing (at Paragraph 60) which HHJ Dight summarised as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under FSMA to carry out 
regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check was made to see 
whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs website until May 2012. 
The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 2012. She accepted that 
had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the defendant would not have dealt with CLP.
This contradicts what Carey has said in its submissions to this service in this case  in that there 
was no reason why it should not have accepted the introduction from CL&P and facilitated the 
investments in question.
In any event, I do not accept Careys argument that the 2010 version of the FSA alert would 
not necessarily have led it to conclude that it should not enter into business with CL&P. For all 
the reasons given in the published decision, I am of the view that the October 2010 alert was a 
clear indication that the regulator had serious concerns about the way Mr Terence Wright 
conducted his business and therefore should have put Carey on notice that it should not accept 
business from Mr Terence Wright.
The National Archive of the FSA website shows the description of the list on the FSAs 
website in August 2011 (when Careys relationship with CL&P began) was as follows:
Firms and individuals to avoid
We have a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you 
should not deal with.
The regulator therefore described those featuring on the list as firms and individuals that we 
believe you should not deal with. I consider that this supports my view that Carey should have 
been particularly circumspect before it agreed to do business operated by an individual who 
featured on that list.
Although Carey has not confirmed the exact date, it would appear that Mrs Gs money was sent 
to Store First after July 2012. As the published decision sets out, it is fair and reasonable to say 
by that time Carey knew, or ought to have known:
That what CL&P had told it in December 2011 about cash incentives not being 
offered was not correct. So CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own 
words, completely against all rules. And CL&P was acting without integrity as it 
had not told it the truth when asked about cash incentives.
Multiple requests had been made for copies of CL&Ps accounts, but CL&P was 
unwilling to provide this information.
In addition, by the time Carey transferred Mrs Gs cash to Store First, its concerns about 
CL&Ps operation were such that it had terminated its relationship with it. But it did not advise 
Mrs G of this.
So for the same reasons set out in the published decision, it is my finding that if Carey had 
carried out sufficient due diligence on CL&P or acted on the information it subsequently received 
in a timely manner, it should not have accepted Mrs Gs application from CL&P  or, at the very 
least, not continued to process it.
Investment due diligence
The published decision sets out what information Carey was privy to  or ought to have been 
privy to, had it carried out sufficient due diligence on Store First. As the published decision 
sets out, at the time Mrs Gs application was accepted Carey knew or ought to have known:
There were factors in the report Carey obtained on Harley Scott Holdings Ltd (the 
promoter of Store First) which ought to have been of concern  namely the adverse 
comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the business had 
recently changed its name.
Dylan Harvey (one of three previous names of Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, which at 
the time had the web address dylanharvey.com) and one of its directors, Toby 
Whittaker, were the subject of a number of national press reports, online petitions 
and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property investment.Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had recently been involved in a property investment 
scheme which had failed. It had also recently changed its name, and had been 
subject to a number of adverse comments in succession, following audit.
Store Firsts marketing material set out high fixed returns, and said these were 
guaranteed. The material did not contain any type of risk warning, or illustrations of 
any other returns. No explanation of the guarantees was offered, or the basis of the 
projected returns  other than Store Firsts own confidence in its business model and 
the self-storage marketplace.
The conclusion of the Enhanced Support Solutions report Carey had obtained was 
inconsistent with the result of Careys own company searches. The report also 
makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material.
The marketing material showed there was a significant risk that potential investors 
were being misled.
Store First appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to 
provide high and rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high 
level of liquidity together with a strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact 
that there was no investor protection associated with the investment and that, in 
Careys own words, there is no apparent established market for the investment and 
the investment is potentially illiquid
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Carey couldnt be certain 
that the investment operated as claimed.
Consumers may have been misled or did not properly understand the investment 
they intended to make.
And, by the time the money was sent to Store First, as the published decision sets out, 
Carey knew, or ought to have known:
Store First was paying commission of 12% to CL&P. Payment of such a high level of 
commission to an unregulated business was very serious cause for concern, given 
how the investment was being marketed. How Store First was funding such levels of 
commission alongside guaranteed income payments and guaranteed buy backs 
called the nature of the Store First investment into serious question.
There were issues with Store First which were of sufficient concern for it to suspend 
acceptance of the investment.
On the latter point, Carey suspended acceptance of new investments in Store First in August 2012. 
It has not confirmed the date at which this suspension was placed. But it has provided details of an 
internal meeting, which took place on 15 August 2012, at which concerns about Store First were 
discussed. And it has provided a copy of an internal email dated 17 August 2012 which says new 
investments in Store First had been suspended. So it seems likely the decision to suspend new 
investments in Store First was taken during or shortly after the 15 August 2012 meeting. Given that 
Mrs G did not sign Careys Store First indemnity until September 2012 and the investment was not 
confirmed until October 2012, it would seem that her investment post-dated that decision.
It therefore seems clear from the available evidence that by the date on which Carey sent cash 
from Mrs Gs SIPP to Store First, Carey had the concerns that led to the suspension of the 
acceptance of new investments in Store First and had taken the step of suspending such 
investments. Carey has not said why it allowed Mrs Gs investment to proceed. Even ignoring that, 
as set out in the published decision Carey had concerns that related to, Rental Income 
Process/Delays, Sale Process/Delays, a tax investigation and that the marketing material 
provided for . a guaranteed rental income but only a small proportion of Store First investors 
were receiving the rental income as expected.
As in the complaint subject to the published decision, I think all of the points listed above 
should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was being sold by an 
unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. I think it is fair and 
reasonable to find that Carey ought to have concluded there was an obvious risk of consumer detriment here.
So, given the circumstances at the time of Mrs Gs application, I think the fair and reasonable 
conclusion, based on what Carey knew or ought to have known at the time, is that Carey should 
not have accepted Mrs Gs application to invest in Store First. In my opinion, it ought to have 
concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations, or best practice, to do 
so.
The involvement of TPS
TPS was a trading name of Douglas Baillie Ltd. At the time of TPSs involvement Douglas Baillie 
Ltd was an FCA regulated financial adviser. Mrs G received a TPS recommendation report dated 1 
June 2012, after she had made her SIPP application and that application had been accepted by 
Carey. Carey has said that TPS was appointed after Carey had told Mrs G that it required her to 
seek advice about her intention to transfer her OPS to the SIPP. Carey has said that it received 
confirmation in 2012 that Mrs G had received advice from TPS as to the intended transfer and a 
Transfer Value Analysis Summarys (TVAS).
I dont believe that Carey should have taken any particular comfort from the involvement of TPS in 
these specific circumstances. As discussed, Carey had already accepted Mrs Gs SIPP application 
and set up her SIPP by the time of TPSs involvement, something it should not have done given 
what it should have known about CL&P. Furthermore, Mrs Gs SIPP application and request to 
transfer had been introduced by CL&P without any involvement of a regulated financial adviser. It 
was only at Careys request that a financial adviser was appointed. It was clear that CL&P was the 
material party that was inducing Mrs G to transfer and then invest in unregulated investments. TPS 
was only appointed after the fact as a condition of Carey accepting the transfer of the occupational 
scheme. So the same concerns about CL&Ps involvement and likely consumer detriment should 
have remained and led Carey to decline the application.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for Carey to proceed with Mrs Gs 
instructions?
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is largely the same as the view set out in the 
published decision. The key points here are:
It was not fair and reasonable for Carey to have accepted Mrs Gs application from 
CL&P in the first place. So, Mrs Gs SIPP should not have been established and the 
opportunity to execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity 
should not have arisen at all.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. I consider there 
is a significant imbalance of knowledge between the parties which creates unfairness 
in the circumstances of this case. At the time of receiving Mrs Gs application and 
executing her investment instructions, Carey knew things that Mrs G did not.
Carey was required by its regulatory obligations to ensure that it treated its 
customers fairly. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that this would have required 
Carey to have stopped Mrs G from proceeding any further with the Store First 
investment.
I therefore do not believe Mrs Gs intentions affect the outcome of the complaint. But 
for completeness, as set out above, Mrs G has told us that had she been made aware 
that Mr Wright was on an FSA warning list then she would not have proceeded with 
the transfer. I do think it unlikely in this situation that Mrs G would continue to have 
confidence dealing with CL&P. And Mrs G has told us she was not aware that there 
was any appreciable risk with the Store First investment and would not have 
proceeded with had she been aware.
Is it fair to ask Carey to compensate Mrs G?
My view on this point, in relation to this complaint, is also largely the same as the view set out in 
the published decision. The key points here are:I do not consider the fact that Mrs G signed the indemnity means that she shouldnt 
be compensated if it is fair to do so.
Had Carey acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it 
should not have accepted Mrs Gs application to open a SIPP introduced from CL&P. 
That should have been the end of the matter  it should have told Mrs G that it could 
not accept the business. So if that had happened, the arrangement for Mrs G would 
not have come about in the first place, and the loss she suffered could have been 
avoided. That is the primary point.
For completeness, had Carey explained to Mrs G why it would not accept the 
application from CL&P or was terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that 
Mrs G would have tried to find another SIPP operator to accept the business.
And, in any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not 
compensate Mrs G for her loss on the basis of any speculation that another SIPP 
operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair 
instead to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the 
application from CL&P, or would have terminated the transaction before completion.
Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mrs Gs actions mean she should bear the 
loss arising as a result of Careys failings. I acknowledge Mrs G was warned of the 
high-risk nature of Store First and declared she understood that warning. But Carey 
failed to act on significant warning signs. Carey should simply not have accepted Mrs 
Gs application at all and she should never have got to the point of signing the 
indemnity.
With all this in mind, Im of the opinion that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case to find that Carey is unable to rely on the indemnity that Mrs G signed in order to avoid liability 
for the regulatory failings it has made in this case. So I am satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Carey should compensate Mrs G for the loss she has suffered to her pension.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry best 
practice at the relevant time has led to Mrs G suffering a significant loss to her pension. And my 
aim is therefore to return Mrs G to the pension position she would now be in but for Careys 
failings. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary 
judgement ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgement deals with 
restitution/compensation.
In light of my above findings, in my view Carey should calculate fair compensation by comparing 
the current position to the position Mrs G would be in if she had not transferred from her existing 
pension. In summary, Carey should:
1.Calculate the loss Mrs G has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2.Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Mrs Gs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mrs G direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs G has suffered as a result of making the transfer
Carey should calculate redress in line with The FCAs pension review guidance in 
October 2017 (https: //www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised- guidance/fg17- 9.pdf) 
using the most recent financial assumptions published.
Should my Final Decision remain the same, this calculation should be carried out as at the date of that decision, and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision.
The Store First investment should be assumed to have no value.
Account should be taken of the cash back payment paid out to Mrs G. This can be taken into 
account in the calculation on the basis of it having been paid at the outset i.e. the same 
approach can be taken as was taken by the Court of Appeal in its supplementary judgement.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment
I note that the Court of Appeal attached a value to the Store First investment. However, here, I am 
able to ask Carey to take ownership of the investment. And I understand Carey has been able to 
take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil consideration, in other cases. So it should do 
that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair approach in the circumstances of this case, as it 
allows the SIPP to close and gives Carey the option of retaining the investment or realising its 
current market value.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the SIPP. I 
think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable value in the future. 
I understand Mrs G has the option of returning her Store First investment to the freeholder for nil 
consideration. That should enable her to close her SIPP, if Carey does not take ownership of the 
Store First investment.
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mrs G decides not to transfer it to 
the freeholder she should be aware that she will be liable for all future costs associated with the 
investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any other charges. 
She should also be aware it is unlikely she will be able to make a further complaint about these 
costs.
3. Pay compensation to Mrs G for loss she has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mrs G has suffered is within her pension it is right that I try to restore the value of her 
pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss should be paid into 
the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation should be increased to cover the 
charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mrs G could claim. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mrs Gs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mrs G may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mrs G direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mrs G should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Gs 
marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mrs G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to 
the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs G would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs G has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of her pension benefits. Mrs G 
had significant benefits retained in a defined benefit local government scheme. The loss of these 
benefits has undoubtedly caused her upset. I note the Court of Appeal did not find compensation 
should be paid for non financial loss. But my role here is to determine what, in my view, is fair 
compensation in the particular circumstances of this case. And I consider that a payment of £500 is 
fair to compensate for the upset Mrs G has suffered.determination and money award: my provisional decision is that Carey pay Mrs G 
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs G within 
90 days of the date Carey receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Carey 
to pay Mrs G this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time 
where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be 
added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I also recommend that Carey pays Mrs G the balance. I further recommend interest to 
be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes Carey to pay Mrs G from the date it receives notification of her acceptance of the decision, 
as set out above.
If my final decision remains the same and Mrs G accepts that determination, the money 
award is binding on Options SIPP UK LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Options 
SIPP UK LLP.
Further, its unlikely that Mrs G can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance 
of any compensation owing to her after the money award has been paid. Mrs G may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Options UK 
Personal Pensions LLP should calculate and pay compensation as set out above.
Submissions received in response to my provisional decision
I have not received any further submissions from Carey in response to the provisional
decision.
Mrs G accepted the provisional decision and did not make any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not received any further submissions in response to my provisional decision. My
decision therefore remains that the complaint should be upheld  for the reasons set out in
my provisional decision.
I would reiterate what I set out in my provisional decision about the involvement of TPS. 
Carey should not have accepted Mrs Gs SIPP application and set up her SIPP in the first 
place. So it should never have got to the point that Carey requested that Mrs G seek advice 
from a third party. For completeness, Mrs G has told us that had she been made aware that 
Mr Wright was on an FSA warning list then she would not have proceeded with the transfer. I 
do think it unlikely in this situation that Mrs G would continue to have confidence dealing with 
CL&P and, given it was the principal party she was dealing with and it had introduced her to 
the matter of transferring her pension and making the Store First investment, I do not think 
that the involvement of TPS would have given her any comfort. And Mrs G has told us she 
was not aware that there was any appreciable risk with the Store First investment and would 
not have proceeded with had she been aware.Furthermore, as also discussed in my provisional decision, by the time Carey sent Mrs Gs 
money to Store First it had both terminated its introducer agreement with CL&P (for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision) and taken the decision to not accept applications 
for new investments in Store First because of its concerns with that investment. It was not 
appropriate in these circumstances for Carey to arrange Mrs Gs investment in Store First 
and it clearly should have been aware this was not in Mrs Gs best interests. 
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time has led to Mrs G suffering a significant loss to her 
pension. And my aim is therefore to return Mrs G to the pension position she would now 
be in but for Careys failings. When considering this I have taken into account the Court of 
Appeals supplementary judgement ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgement 
deals with restitution/compensation.
As set out in the provisional decision, Carey should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mrs G would be in if she had not 
transferred from her existing pension. In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs G has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mrs Gs pension. If that is not possible 
pay compensation for the loss to Mrs G direct. In either case the payment 
should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1.Calculate the loss Mrs G has suffered as a result of making the transfer
Carey should calculate redress in line with The FCAs pension review 
guidance in October 2017 (https: //www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised- 
guidance/fg17- 9.pdf) using the most recent financial assumptions published.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of that decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision.
The Store First investment should be assumed to have no value.
Account should be taken of any cash back payment paid out to Mrs G. This can be 
taken into account in the calculation on the basis of it having been paid at the outset 
i.e. the same approach can be taken as was taken by the Court of Appeal in its 
supplementary judgement.
2.Take ownership of the Store First investment
I note that the Court of Appeal attached a value to the Store First investment. However, 
here, I am able to ask Carey to take ownership of the investment. And I understand Carey 
has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil consideration, in 
other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair approach in 
the circumstances of this case, as it allows the SIPP to close and gives Carey the option 
of retaining the investment or realising its current market value.If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future. I understand Mrs G has the option of returning her Store First 
investment to the freeholder for nil consideration. That should enable her to close her 
SIPP, if Carey does not take ownership of the Store First investment.
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mrs G decides not to 
transfer it to the freeholder she should be aware that she will be liable for all future costs 
associated with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground 
rent and any other charges. She should also be aware it is unlikely she will be able to 
make a further complaint about these costs.
3.Pay compensation to Mrs G for loss she has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mrs G has suffered is within her pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of her pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mrs G could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mrs Gs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mrs G may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mrs G direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mrs G should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mrs Gs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mrs G is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs G 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs G has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of her pension 
benefits. Mrs G had significant benefits retained in a defined benefit local government 
scheme. The loss of these benefits has undoubtedly caused her upset. I note the Court of 
Appeal did not find compensation should be paid for non financial loss. But my role here is 
to determine what, in my view, is fair compensation in the particular circumstances of this 
case. And I consider that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for the upset Mrs G has 
suffered.
determination and money award: my decision is that Carey pay Mrs G 
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs 
G within 90 days of the date Carey receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Carey to pay Mrs G this compensation.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation 
is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I also recommend that Carey pays Mrs G the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Carey to pay Mrs G from the date it receives notification 
of her acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs G accepts my final decison, the money award is binding on Options SIPP UK 
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Options SIPP UK LLP.
Further, its unlikely that Mrs G can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of any compensation owing to her after the money award has been paid. Mrs G 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in this decision and my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
I  uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Options UK Personal Pensions LLP should calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman