DRN-3236406
The complaint
Mr K has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim made 
under his home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr K found water entering his home causing damage. So, he contacted AXA to make a 
claim for storm damage. Mr K also arranged for a company to inspect the damage and carry 
out a repair to his roof. AXA asked Mr K to provide a report from that company showing the 
cause of damage and its findings. Mr K provided a report. AXA then arranged for its own 
contractor to visit. Following this visit, AXA declined the claim.
When Mr K complained to AXA, it maintained its decision to decline the claim on the basis 
that storm conditions werent evident at the time and there was evidence of poor 
workmanship. However, it accepted there was a delay in assessing the claim, so offered £75 
compensation.
So, Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said AXAs 
surveyor couldnt get access to the roof and so had assessed it through a roof window. The 
surveyor highlighted some possible issues, but said a thorough inspection would be required 
to determine the cause. She said AXA should carry out a further inspection in order to 
establish the cause of ingress to the roof.
As AXA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When AXA declined the claim, it said there werent storm conditions evident at the time of 
the incident and there was evidence of poor workmanship. Ive read the report from AXAs 
surveyor. This said the roofer:
 could not see any storm related damage, however they did notice that two rows
of roof tiles to the full run of rear elevation roof have at some point been removed and 
refitted. This was evident as all refitted slates are secured with lead tabs. We suspect that 
the property originally had gutters fixed to the end of the rafters but have since
been removed and replaced with a fascia board, and then new gutters (fixed to the fascia 
board front). In doing this there is a possibility that the original roof slates did not have 
enough overhang into the new gutters therefore the roofers have attempted to lower the 
bottom two courses of slates to achieve a sufficient overhang. This may be causing the 
rainwater ingress as there is now an insufficient lap on the roof slates. A thorough inspection 
is required to determine this, however fixed scaffold would be
needed to the full span of the rear elevation.
So, the roofer seemed to suspect one issue and that there was a possibility of another but 
A thorough inspection is required to determine this. AXA didnt then carry out an 
additional survey and instead seemed to rely on these findings to conclude there wasnt any 
storm related damage, despite the roofer not being able to determine the cause. 
Im also aware that AXA has said there werent storm conditions around the time of the 
incident. During the claim, Mr K provided an explanation of how he thought the damage 
happened. He said he thought the roof was damaged during a storm and the water then 
entered his home a couple of months later, during heavy rain. AXA only seemed to focus on 
whether there were storm conditions around the time the claim was made without 
considering Mr Ks full explanation. 
AXAs roofer also suggested the damage might be the result of poor workmanship. Mr K 
explained to AXA about the work that had been carried out by his own contractor to try and 
stop water entering his home and that this was explained in the report he had previously 
provided. AXAs survey report also said: Internal damage was also seen to be longstanding 
as fungi growth can clearly be seen growing. It isnt clear who decided the fungi was 
evidence of a longstanding issue and what their knowledge and expertise was. Mr K 
explained the timeline of the fungi growth and provided photos to show this. 
So, I havent seen anything that suggests to me that AXA looked at Mr Ks explanation about 
the different issues within the claim and the sequence of events he described to see if this 
was likely to be what had happened and whether, as a result, any of the damage was 
covered by the policy.
Thinking about how AXA dealt with the claim, Im not currently persuaded it carried out a 
thorough enough assessment in order to decide whether any of the damage was covered by 
the policy. This is both in terms of the level of evidence it obtained as part of its own survey 
or properly considering the explanation and evidence provided by Mr K. As a result, I 
currently intend to require AXA to reconsider the claim, taking into account the issues Ive 
highlighted above about how it previously assessed it. As part of that, Im aware AXA has 
said the damage might be the result of a different issue. But it didnt give this as the reason 
to decline the claim in its final response letter and I still think AXA needs to show it has 
properly assessed the claim.  
Im also aware Mr K has had work carried out on the roof and there might now not be 
anything for a surveyor to assess. However, AXA does need to carry out an appropriate 
assessment to show that how it decides the claim is fair and reasonable.  If AXA makes a 
cash settlement for the claim, I also currently intend to say it must pay interest on that 
amount because Mr K lost use of that money.
Im aware there was also a discussion between AXA and Mr K about some of the wording of 
the policy, particularly around accidental damage cover. However, I havent considered this 
because I dont think its clear what the most likely cause of damage was and what part of 
the policy, if any, it should be dealt with under. So, I dont think it would be appropriate for 
me to consider this in any detail in relation to Mr Ks claim. If it remains an issue when AXA 
has reconsidered the claim, Mr K could raise it with AXA again at that time.
Ive also thought about compensation. I currently intend to require AXA to increase the 
amount it pays to £200, which includes the £75 it previously offered. This is because AXA 
asked Mr K to provide information, including a report, and then didnt seem to consider it, or 
Mr Ks other explanations, as part of its decision-making process. I think this was poor-claim 
handling and will have caused Mr K frustration, in addition to the delays AXA previously 
identified when it offered Mr K compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 22 December 2021.Mr K emphasised again that it had been a genuine unforeseen ingress of water, contractors 
had visited and found physical damage and also undertook repairs, which was detailed in 
their report. AXA was incorrect to say there was a longstanding issue or that the recent area 
of repair was an ongoing point of ingress. AXA had refused to alter its view or consider that it 
had been wrong.
AXA didnt reply.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent identified any reason to change the decision that I previously 
reached. So, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. 
  
Putting things right
AXA should reconsider the claim, pay 8% simple interest if it cash settles the claim and pay 
a total of £200 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reconsider the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay 8% simple interest on any amount it pays as a cash settlement from the date on 
which the claim was made to the date on which the payment is made.
Pay a total of £200 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman