DRN-2651299
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt complete a transfer from his account when 
asked to.
What happened
On 23 September 2020 Mr G opened a fixed term savings account with a bank Ill refer to as 
T. T asked him whether hed be interested in taking part in a trial of their new savings app. 
And if he was, hed receive an interest rate of 3% fixed for one year. But this offer was only 
open to 100 people.
Mr G said he was interested and, on 30 September 2020, was told by T that hed been one 
of the £100 people to be selected for the trial. He opened another account with T and, on 2 
October 2020, phoned and asked Santander to transfer £30,000 to this account. But the 
transfer didnt go through.
The following day Mr G noticed the £30,000 had been returned to his account. He contacted 
T, who told him they hadnt returned the money. On 6 October 2020 T also told him he was 
now too late to receive the preferential interest rate. And they closed down his account. 
Mr C complained to Santander that they hadnt transferred the money hed asked them to. 
And hed lost out on a preferential interest rate as a result. Santander said they shouldve 
contacted Mr G when the transfer didnt go through, but they didnt do so. And because of 
this they offered Mr G £50 compensation. But they didnt think they were responsible for Mr 
G not being able to take advantage of the preferential interest rate. Mr G wasnt happy with 
Santanders response, and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr G had called Santander twice on 2 October 2020. On the first 
occasion Santander told him they couldnt transfer the £30,000 because this would take him 
over the daily transfer limit (because of other transactions hed also asked them to do). And 
on the second occasion they told Mr G theyd process the payment and let him know if it 
couldnt happen.
The investigator said Santander have processes in place to protect their customers money, 
and the £30,000 transaction was flagged by their system and not made. So he didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong by not transferring the money. But he thought 
Santander shouldve told Mr S about this on 2 October 2020. And he also thought the £50 
they offered for not telling Mr G about this was reasonable.
The investigator said that Mr G realised the transfer hadnt gone through on 3 October 2020.  
And, if hed contacted Santander about this, they mayve been able to make the requested 
transfer. But Mr G only contacted T on 3 October 2020. And on 6 October 2020, T told him 
the preferential interest rate was no longer available. It wasnt until 11 October 2020 that Mr 
G spoke to Santander about this. For this reason, he didnt think Santander needed to 
compensate Mr G for the interest hed lost.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen that T emailed Mr G at 16:34 on 30 September 2020, to tell him hed been selected 
for the preferential interest rate. This email said this offer was only available for a very 
limited time so act fast. 
Mr G called Santander at 14:45 on 2 October 2020 to ask them to transfer £30,000 to T. Ive 
listened to this call and Santander explained the transfer couldnt go through. This was 
because Mr G had transferred £85,000 the day before, and the value of the two transactions 
exceeded the £100,000 account limit. Santander said that, if Mr G called them back more 
than 24-hours after making the £85,000 transfer, theyd be able to process the £30,000 
transfer.
Mr G called Santander back at 15:45 on 2 October 2020 and Ive also listened to this call. In 
this call Santander told Mr G that, although the transfer had now been processed, it needed 
to go through some additional security checks. And he may receive a phone call or text 
message to confirm the transaction. Santander also said that if you havent heard anything 
in the next four hours the payment will have just gone through itself anyway.
Its not disputed that Santander didnt contact Mr G, either by email or text message, to 
confirm the transaction. But the transaction also didnt go through for security purposes, and 
the £30,000 was re-credited to Mr Gs account. And Santander have said they didnt contact 
Mr G to tell him whatd happened either.
Mr G asked for the transfer to be made on 2 October 2020. Mr G has said that, on 3 October 
2020, once I saw that the payment had been re-credited to my account I tried to resolve the 
problem with some urgency  I contacted [T]. Hes also said that he was faced with two 
conflicting statements Santander saying the payment had gone and [T] saying there was no 
problem at their end.
Ive also seen that T emailed Mr G at 18:01 on 6 October 2020 to say that, because theyd 
reached the maximum amount of deposits available, they were closing all unfunded 
accounts, including his. At that the preferential interest rate was no longer available.
I appreciate the situation that Mr G found himself in. But, as the £30,000 had left his account 
on 2 October 2020, and then had been recredited, he was aware that the payment hadnt 
gone through. Even though Santander hadnt phoned him, or sent him a text message, to tell 
him this. And he knew from the information T provided to him that the preferential interest 
rate was a time limited offer.Because Mr G was aware that he initially needed to contact Santander to transfer the money 
to T - this wasnt something T could do - Im satisfied he shouldve been reasonably aware 
that hed need to contact Santander to sort out why the transfer hadnt happened, and not 
just T. He didnt do this, and Santander wouldnt have been able to sort out the issue that 
stopped the payment going through until he did. So, its for this reason, I dont think that 
Santander should compensate Mr G for the loss of interest he wouldve received from T.
But this doesnt mean that Santander didnt do anything wrong. They shouldve contacted Mr 
G to let him know the transfer wasnt going through  either by phone call or text as 
mentioned in the call of 2 October 2020. However, Im satisfied that the £50 theyve offered 
is reasonable compensation for this error, and I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
Its now for Mr G to decide whether to accept this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman