DRN-3145588
The complaint
Mr B complains Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very misled him over an interest 
charge. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has a catalogue shopping account with very. He made a purchase using a Buy Now 
Pay Later (BNPL) plan. In brief, if he repaid the full value of the purchase by the end of the 
BNPL period (10 April 2020) he wouldnt be charged any interest. But if he didnt repay the 
full value, some interest would be charged. This is how BNPL plans work and I find the terms 
and conditions and the monthly statements make it clear.
In March 2020 Mr B contacted very using its webchat service and communicated with an 
advisor Ill call G. Its not very long and doesnt contain any sensitive information so I will 
include it below. I have edited it slightly to correct spelling/grammatical mistakes.
G: Hello, you are through to [G] at the Customer Arrears Support Team, how can I 
help you today? 
Mr C: Hi, any chance you could delay my BNPL payments as things are tighter now 
with this virus. I have a very credit card too, which I just paid. I never miss a payment, 
but Im struggling a bit until things go back to normal. 
G: I understand, thank you for contacting us today. Unfortunately we are unable to 
prevent BNPL interest from being applied to an account after the delayed payment 
period ends, this happens automatically. What we would advise is to contact us back 
once this has been applied to the account if you will not be able to manage the 
payment and we can look into some options as we are aware of the current 
circumstances and are looking to support our customers who do use BNPL at this 
challenging time. Once you get back in touch we will be able to review your account.
 
Mr C: I dont understand "back in touch". Im in touch now.
G: Once the interest has been applied to the account we ask you to contact us back 
so we can look at options to support you with the BNPL as we have no way of 
preventing the interest being applied to the account after the delayed payment 
period. 
Mr C: So you want me to wait until Im in trouble? Ok. 
G: We are unable to delay BNPL and we are unable to set something in place on the 
account for payment we do not yet require. You will not be in trouble as we will be 
able to review the interest that has been applied. 
Mr C: Ok thanks, Ill get back in touch when that happens then. 
G: Thank you, I will note on your account that you have been in touch. We are 
supporting all those affected by Covid-19 within the coming months.
 
Mr C: Thanks, bye. 
Mr C says his understanding from this webchat was his BNPL period would come to an end 
and interest would be charged. But he could then call very to have it refunded. Mr C called 
(after the interest - about £50 - had been charged) and very didnt refund the interest. 
Mr C argues he was misled and says if very had been clearer in the webchat about the 
interest not being refunded, he would have repaid the BNPL plan in full to avoid the interest 
being charged. very has reviewed the webchat and doesnt agree it misled Mr C.
Based on the webchat, I find G explained Mr C should contact very after the interest had 
been added and it would consider support for him. I find this was reasonable. There was no 
Financial Conduct Authority Covid-related guidance applicable at the time and there was no 
requirement for very to extend BNPL periods. It did need to provide support to customers in 
financial difficulties, which is what it said it would do for Mr C. But support doesnt 
necessarily involve waiving/refunding interest. 
In my view very didnt promise to refund the interest it would charge. Its unfortunate Mr C 
interpreted what he was told in the way he did, and that he says this resulted in him not 
repaying the full value of his BNPL purchase in time to avoid interest being charged. But I 
dont find this was a result of misleading and/or incorrect information on the part of very.  
Overall, Im not persuaded very was wrong to charge Mr C interest on the BNPL plan. And 
Im not persuaded very should have refunded the interest following contact from Mr C. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman