DRN-4518796
The complaint
Mrs H complains about problems caused by Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd when 
transferring a Junior Individual Savings Account (JISA) for her son.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree the transfer shouldve happened sooner and there were some delays. 
I think its also important to say that Vanguard have already agreed to contact the other party 
involved in the transfer and arrange for the account to be put back in the position it would be 
in if not for the delay. 
One outstanding issue is any amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by what happened. Mrs H isnt the account holder of the JISA, instead she is the 
named correspondent. Being a third party to the account means I dont have power to make 
an award for any trouble caused. 
Thats not to say that Mrs H wasnt inconvenienced, she clearly was, but the rules dont allow 
me to make an award to her, only to the account holder. And I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence the account holder was put to any distress and in convenience as it was Mrs H 
who was dealing with the issues. 
This complaint has three parts which I will deal with in turn. A different complaint dealt with 
matters that happened prior to September 2002 so I wont be commenting on those issues. 
When dealing with the other party involved in the transfer it wasnt initially always made clear 
if there was any residual cash to be transferred. However in January 2023 it was made clear 
that there was residual cash to be transferred. Vanguard didnt action this part of the transfer 
as soon as they shouldve done. To put things right they should contact the other party to 
establish if the delay caused any financial loss. 
There was a second issue around outstanding dividend payments. Our Investigator gave a 
detailed explanation of what happened with this issue so I wont repeat all the events again 
here.
Having looked at what happened I dont think Vanguard had a reason to know about any 
outstanding dividends until they were told about them by Mrs H. Once they were told Im 
satisfied they acted quickly in fixing the matter. So I dont think Vanguard need to do 
anything about this part of the complaint.
Lastly there was an issue with some stock dealings which needs putting right. 
Vanguard were contacted on 7 September 2022 by the other party asking for instructions 
about the stock, but this wasnt dealt with until some months later. 
Had Vanguard replied when I think they shouldve done, based on a timescale for another 
similar transaction, then the sale would most likely have taken place on 12 September 2022.
So Vanguard should compare the sale of the stock on 12 September 2002 with when it was 
actually sold. If the sale achieved a lower value then the account should be reconstructed as 
if the sale took place when it should have done with appropriate interest added for that time.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the above is a fair and 
reasonable way of putting things right. 
Putting things right
Vanguard should contact the other party involved in the transfer to see if there was any 
financial loss caused by their delays. 
If there was a loss they should put the account back in the position it would be in if not for 
those delays as outlined above. 
Vanguard should provide Mrs H with calculations of any loss or an explanation of why there 
was no financial loss if thats the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd should take the actions Ive outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman