DRN-3388117
The complaint
Ms M complains about damage charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) when her hire purchase agreement ended. 
What happened
In June 2018 Ms M took a new car on a four year hire purchase agreement from MBFS. The 
terms of the agreement required her to return the car in line with the Vehicle Return 
Standards, whether she did so at the end of the four year period or sooner. Those standards 
were set out in some detail over more than two pages. They indicated what level of damage 
would be acceptable as wear and tear and what type of damage would not be acceptable. 
They did so by reference to, for example, depth and length of scratches and dents.
The hire purchase agreement also said that, if the Vehicle Return Standards were not met,  
Ms M would have to pay for the cost of repairs or any loss in value of the car as a result.  
Ms M returned the car in October 2021, before the end of the agreement. On collection, it 
was inspected and some damage was identified. That included scuff marks to three wheels 
and some paint chips. The tyre sealant was missing as well. 
After the car had been collected, it was inspected again. The second inspection identified 
additional damage which had not been included in the first inspection report, although it 
appears that the scuff marks to one of the wheels was deemed acceptable.
The total charge for damage after the second inspection was more than £800. Ms M 
complained to MBFS. It agreed to remove one charge (for a chip in the windscreen), but 
maintained the remaining charges were fair. 
Ms M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought however that MBFS had acted fairly. He noted that the damage fell outside the 
Vehicle Return Standards and also outside the standards considered to be acceptable by 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). MBFSs own standards are 
similar, but not identical, to those of BVRLA, but the investigator was satisfied that the 
damage in this case was outside the acceptable standards of both. 
Ms M did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have indicated, there were two inspections here. The first was carried out when the car 
was collected from Ms M. The images taken at the time show that the car was outside and 
that it was raining. The second inspection was carried out inside and under good lighting. It 
is normal for a car to be inspected twice in such cases, and I do not believe that MBFS was 
bound by the findings of the first inspection. As I have indicated, it was done in less than 
perfect conditions and could only give an initial indication of any damage. 
The key issue here is one of fact, however. Was the car returned in line with the Vehicle 
Return Standards or not? And if not, was it fair that Ms M was charged?
I have considered carefully both inspection reports, including the videos and photographs 
which form part of them. Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions about 
the damage. I think the evidence does show damage that is outside the acceptable 
standards in the agreement and those of BVRLA. 
Ms M has said that a dent identified in the second report was not present when the car was 
collected. It is true that it was not noted in the first inspection, and I cannot rule out the 
possibility that the car was damaged in transit. The damage is relatively minor and not 
immediately obvious, but still outside the acceptable standards. So I think it more likely that 
Ms M was not aware of it and that it was not picked up at the initial inspection. The 
conditions of the second inspection made it more apparent. 
Ms M has also said that the charge for tyre sealant was £60, significantly more than the retail 
price of the item. The retail price is however only part of the cost of replacing it; it will have 
had to be collected and installed as well. I dont think I can fairly say the charge was 
unreasonable.          
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do anything more to resolve Ms Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman