DRN-4144476
The complaint
Mr D complains about National Westminster Bank Plc closing his sons (Mr D) bank account 
after he deposited an inheritance cheque.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 8 March 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold it, so there will be a different outcome to
what our investigator proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 22 March 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr D complains about National Westminster Bank Plc closing his sons (Mr D) bank account
after he deposited an inheritance cheque.
What happened
Mr D explains that he has three children and as they each inherited £35000 following the sad
loss of his father, cheques were deposited into each of their bank accounts. This included Mr
Ds 16-year-old son (Mr D) who has a bank account with NatWest.
Mr D says the cheque paid into NatWest was the only cheque that didnt clear, and he was
informed this was due to a fraud alert.
Mr D says despite contacting NatWest and giving them information, he was told his sons
bank account was being closed.
Mr D says he subsequently successfully paid the £35000 into a new account he set up with
the bank that had issued the cheque and there have been no fraud alerts. When Mr D 
complained to NatWest, they didnt give an explanation for their closure action.
Mr D complained to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.
As Mr D remains dissatisfied his complaint has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain this service cant instruct a business to re-open an account or alter its
procedures, processes or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial
services industry, and our role is to consider each individual case. And, where we think a
business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what
should be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has
experienced.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ds strong feelings here, a bank is entitled to close an account with a
customer just as a customer may close an account with a bank. However, when doing so, it
must comply with the terms and conditions of the account. Having reviewed the file,
including the information NatWest received, Im satisfied that their immediate closure action
did comply.
However, although I fully understand NatWests action was based on a fraud alert, I cant
see that they either responded or gave any consideration to the information supplied by Mr
D. This indicates there may have been an error with the fraud alert and, had they done so, I
think there couldve been a different outcome here and Mr Ds sons account might not have
been closed. So, I dont think NatWest have treated Mr D and his son, who was the account
holder, fairly here.
From reading Mr Ds submissions Im persuaded that this lack of communication caused
both distress and inconvenience to both Mr D and his son. Mr D and his son are
understandably concerned about the fraud alert and any future impact it may have. Also, due
to the closure action, which I cant ask NatWest to reverse, there was a delay in Mr Ds son
getting access to the funds, together with the inconvenience of setting up a new account.
Also, as the issue was unresolved there remains a concern there would be a similar issue
and / or future issues if NatWest have placed a marker with fraud prevention agencies.
So, I think NatWest should compensate Mr Ds son for both inconvenience and distress
caused, and I consider £150 to be a fair amount here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr Ds son £150 compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 22 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
NatWest responded prior to the deadline and said:
Could you please confirm if Mr D has provided evidence of the other cheques deposited 
and the disputed cheque clearing, or is your Service just taking his word for it that he was 
able to lodge the items?
As the NatWest response suggested they would now look at evidence and consider Mr Ds 
dispute, I asked Mr D for additional information. As Mr D didnt respond by the deadline, I 
gave him additional time. I extended the deadline and also asked our investigator to call Mr 
D. 
However, at the time of writing this decision there has still been no contact or response from 
Mr D.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst the NatWest response to my provisional decision suggests they may now be willing to 
consider information from Mr D, which would fully establish whether there was an error with 
the fraud alert, I think NatWest shouldve responded and looked into Mr Ds correspondence 
and challenge before they decided to close the account.
Although Mr D hasnt responded and its not possible to say that there was a fraud alert 
error, had NatWest responded to Mr D when he challenged their actions, there couldve 
been a different outcome here and Mr Ds sons account might not have been closed. 
Whilst Im satisfied NatWest were entitled to both act on a fraud alert and close the account, 
I still dont think NatWest have treated Mr D and his son, who was the account holder, fairly 
here.
As no further evidence has been produced in response to my provisional decision, I adopt 
my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint and I
require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr Ds son £150 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman