DRN-4087353
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited proportionately settled his 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay the full claim amount.
What happened
Mr Hs motor insurance policy with Advantage renewed, but he didnt disclose a previous 
motoring conviction. When his car was damaged in an incident, he made a claim on his 
policy. Advantage said Mr H hadnt disclosed the speeding conviction from 2021. It said if he 
had, then it would have charged him a higher premium. So it settled Mr Hs total loss claim 
proportionately by paying him 74% of the claim. 
When Mr H complained, Advantage said hed not corrected his renewal documents which 
said he had no motoring convictions. And that it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to settle his claim proportionately. Mr H agreed he hadnt 
disclosed the conviction as he thought Advantage was aware of it. But he thought he should 
be asked to pay the additional premium, not have a proportionate settlement 
Mr H brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And she believed it was careless. 
And so she thought Advantage was entitled to settle the claim proportionately. 
Mr H replied that he doesnt agree as the settlement was reduced by £3,800 when the 
additional premiums he should have paid were about £200. He thought Advantage hadnt 
settled the claim in his best interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H feels frustrated by Advantages decision about his claim. Hes 
explained that this will have serious financial consequences for him. And I was sorry to hear 
this.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Advantage thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he stated in his renewal documents that he had no driving related convictions. And Ive 
looked at the question he was asked, and I agree he failed to take reasonable care. The 
Statement of Insurance has a box headed Conviction History stating:
For all drivers named on this policy, we need to know of any driving related convictions, 
endorsements, fixed penalties, disqualifications or bans in the past five years.
The following entry for Mr H is None disclosed.
On page 9 of his policy booklet, under Legal Obligations, Advantage explained:
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012, when you apply 
for insurance, you have a duty to take reasonable care to answer all questions as fully and 
as accurately as possible.
If you dont take reasonable care to answer all questions fully and accurately or if you 
deliberately make a false statement, there could be serious consequences. For example, 
depending on the circumstances, your Insurer might be entitled to treat your insurance cover 
and that of every other person named on your Policy as invalid. This could also mean that 
some or all of a claim may not be paid and you may have to make a payment to a Third 
Party (for example another driver or person involved in an incident) thats not covered by this 
insurance.
If the details on your documents are wrong, or if you wish to make any changes, please 
contact our customer services team. Their details are at the front of this document.
And on the Statement of Insurance, Advantage warned Mr H:
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, you have a 
duty to take reasonable care to answer all questions fully and accurately. If you volunteer 
information over and above that requested you must do so honestly and carefully. If you 
don't answer all questions fully and accurately, it could invalidate your insurance cover and 
result in all or part of a claim not being paid.
So I think Advantage gave Mr H sufficient warning that he needed to check that he had 
provided accurate information. And I think Advantage made it clear on Mr Hs renewal 
documents that it needed to know about his motoring convictions. 
Mr H didnt disclose any convictions, but he had a speeding conviction in 2021. And so I 
think he should have disclosed this by contacting Advantage to correct the renewal 
documents. But he didnt. Mr H has explained that he thought Advantage would have been 
aware of this as it had his driving licence number. But I am not satisfied that this was 
reasonable as the conviction clearly wasnt stated on his Statement of Insurance. 
And I think this means Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said he had no motoring convictions within the previous five years. 
Advantage has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Mr H had 
not made this misrepresentation it would have at least charged him a higher premium. This 
means I am satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.I also think Mr Hs misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because I 
havent seen evidence from Advantage that he deliberately kept back information about the 
conviction. 
Therefore, as this was a careless qualifying misrepresentation, Im satisfied Advantage was 
entitled to settle Mr Hs claim proportionately. It has shown evidence that Mr H paid 74% of 
the premium he would have paid if he had disclosed the conviction. Therefore, it is entitled to 
pay 74% of his claim.  
Mr H thought Advantages decision wasnt in his best interest. But I dont agree. This is 
because Im satisfied that as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Advantage to rely on it to settle Mr Hs claim 
proportionately produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman