DRN-2099824
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has been unable to provide information to show 
that the balance it has recorded on her savings account is correct.
What happened
Mrs P has a savings account with Santander. The account comes with a passbook to keep a 
record of transactions. An entry was recorded in Mrs Ps passbook showing a reduction in 
the balance of £570.92. This is recorded as having been made on 14 August 2017. Mrs P 
says she did not make a withdrawal for this amount.
Mrs P has said she made several attempts to get an explanation from Santander about this 
but was unsuccessful. As a result, she complained to Santander, again explaining that she 
didnt make the transaction.
Santander said the transaction Mrs P has referred to was not one individual withdrawal. It 
explained that, as her passbook had not been updated for several years, this entry 
represented a combination of all withdrawals and deposits over the period for which it hadnt 
been updated. And the entry was made to bring the passbook up to date  so it reflected the 
actual position of the account. But it explained it no longer held a complete list of 
transactions for the period this consolidation entry covered. It did accept that its branch staff 
couldve been more helpful in explaining this to Mrs P. So, Santander offered her £50 for the 
upset caused by this poor service.
Mrs P asked our service to consider the complaint. She was unhappy that Santander could 
not provide evidence to show that the reduction in her balance was correct.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Having done so he didnt think Santander 
had acted unfairly. He accepted its explanation that the transaction recorded was to 
consolidate previous account movements and on balance felt this was likely correct. He also 
didnt think it was unreasonable that Santander no longer held details of some account 
transactions, given how long ago they took place. So, he felt the offer of £50 made by 
Santander for the upset caused was fair.
Mrs P did not agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed. As a result, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has provided a copy of her passbook. This shows a deposit of £1,000 in November 
2006, bringing the balance to £1,519.48. This was the last entry in the passbook before the 
£570.92 transaction, in the withdrawal column, in August 2017 which she has questioned. 
This shows the passbook had not been updated for some eleven years. 
In that time the account wouldve been receiving interest. It also appears Mrs P was paying 
small amounts into the account several times a year prior to 2006. And I think its reasonable 
to assume that she likely continued doing so. Santander has also explained that transactions 
can be made without the passbook, including withdrawals. So, over those eleven years the 
balance of the account wouldve likely changed and become different to what was recorded 
in the passbook, meaning that the passbook would need to be updated to reflect the actual 
balance of the underlying savings account.
Santander has said that the £570.92 balance reduction was a consolidation of all of the debit 
and credit transactions over those eleven years and was entered to bring the passbook up to 
date. I think on balance this is likely correct. And I dont think it is unreasonable that the 
transactions for eleven years were consolidated into one adjustment, rather than all entered 
into the passbook individually.
Mrs P has questioned the date the transaction was recorded as she says she didnt visit a 
branch on that date. But I dont think this means that Santander has made an error. I can 
see that Mrs P made a withdrawal of £1,000 on 9 October 2018, which appears to be when 
the passbook was updated. Itemised entries, for each individual transaction in the year prior 
to the withdrawal, appear to have been added to the passbook at the same time. I think it 
makes sense that the consolidation entry, which although dated a year or so earlier, 
wouldve been added at the same time. And because it accounted for transactions predating 
those itemised, I also think it makes sense that it was dated before them. I agree the specific 
date does appear somewhat random, but I dont think that means the entry itself was 
incorrect or not for the purpose Santander has explained. 
Mrs P is unhappy that Santander cant provide an itemised breakdown of all of the 
transactions between 2006 and 2017, so she can verify that the amount is correct. I 
understand Mrs P would prefer certainty. But businesses dont have to retain information 
about accounts indefinitely. It is common industry practice that records are usually only kept 
for around six years. Santander has said it no longer has transaction information from before 
2010. I dont think this is unreasonable.
Where information is incomplete, I need to decide on balance of probabilities what I think is 
most likely to have happened, taking into account the information that is available. Here what 
I need to decide is whether, in the absence of any definitive record, the adjustment made is 
likely correct.
As Ive said the last entry before the adjustment in Mrs Ps passbook shows an account 
balance of £1,519.48, in 2006. Santander has provided copies of some annual interest 
summaries for the account from 2014 onwards. These summaries include the account 
balance. The summaries record the account balance in April 2014 as £975.29, in April 2015 
as £984.73 and in April 2016 as £995.52. So, it appears that withdrawals from the account 
had taken place. But at that time the passbook was still showing a balance in excess of 
£1,500. I can see that following the account adjustment, the balance in the interest 
summaries corresponded with that in the passbook.
Taking everything into account, on balance I think the adjustment recorded in the passbook 
was likely correct and did represent the transactions carried out on the account. So overall, I 
dont think I can say Santander has done anything wrong in updating Mrs Ps passbook or 
that the account balance recorded is incorrect.
Santander has acknowledged that it couldve done a better job of explaining this to Mrs P 
earlier and has offered £50 for the upset caused by this. In the circumstances I think that 
offer is fair, so I dont intend to require Santander to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint as I think the offer made 
previously by Santander UK Plc is a fair and reasonable resolution to matters. If it has not 
already done so, Santander should pay the £50 it previously offered, to Mrs P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman