DRN-3543262
The complaint
The estate of Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, 
unfairly turned down his claim about something bought using his credit card.
What happened
In 2017, the late Mr M, alongside his wife, purchased holiday club membership from a 
business Ill call Business H. This was paid for by Mr and Mrs H making a payment of 
£3,995 using his Barclaycard.1  But this credit card payment wasnt made directly to 
Business H, rather it went to a different business Ill call Business F.
The following year, Mr and Mrs M upgraded their membership with Business H and paid a 
further £5,995 for this. Again, Mr M used his Barclaycard and the payment was made to 
Business F.
In 2021, using a professional representative (PR), Mr M made a claim to Barclaycard under 
s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, Mr M said Business H made 
misrepresentations at the times of the sales that, under s.75 CCA, Barclaycard were jointly 
responsible to answer. It also said there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
s.140A CCA due to the way the memberships were sold and their terms.2 
Barclaycard considered the claim, but didnt think it needed to answer it. It explained that, as 
Mr M paid Business F and not Business H in both transactions, there werent the right 
arrangements in place for the CCA to apply to the claims being made. 
Unhappy with what Barclaycard said, Mr M referred a complaint about the declined claim to 
our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Barclaycard 
needed to do anything further. He didnt think there was enough to say there was a 
misrepresentation for which Barclaycard had to answer under s.75 CCA. He also looked at 
s.140A CCA, but didnt think there was enough to say there was an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship arising out of the purchases. So he concluded that Barclaycard didnt need to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.
PR said that Mr M didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. It provided substantial submissions over a number of months as to why, 
which, for reasons Ill come on to, I dont need to set out in detail. Very sadly, before the 
matter was passed to me for a decision, Mr M passed away. So the complaint is now being 
brought by his estate.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I considered fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, I explained that I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld, but I thought that for different reasons to our 
1 Although the holiday club membership was in the joint names of Mr and Mrs M, as the credit card
used was in Mr Ms name only, the complaint is his estates alone to bring to our service
2 PR also included other issues in the claim, but these werent answered by Barclaycard. For
example, the letter of claim says that affordability checks werent carried out when granting Mr Ms
loan. But as he used a credit card and not a loan, I think this was included by mistake.
investigator. So I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the chance to let me have 
any further evidence or arguments before I issued a final decision.
I explained that when deciding complaints, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
I noted that PR brought a claim on Mr Ms behalf under s.75 and s.140A CCA. And I thought 
it was helpful to set out the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the
debtor arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the
creditor and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it isnot appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of,
or in relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or
not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
Having considered the CCA, I said that the upshot of this is that there needed to be a D-C-S 
agreement in place for the lender (here Barclaycard) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr M) 
for the misrepresentations or breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business H). And a 
D-C-S agreement was also needed if the Suppliers acts and/or omissions were to be 
assessed as part of an assessment of unfairness under s.140A CCA. But, on the face of it, 
there were no such arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business H wasnt paid 
directly using the credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
I noted that there are ways in which there could be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the 
supplier wasnt paid directly using a credit card. But since our investigator issued their view, 
the law in this area was clarified by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc 
[2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner). Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S 
agreement in circumstances where Business F took payment on a credit card in relation to 
the purchase of timeshare membership from a business called C. The court considered the 
arrangements between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to C was made 
outside of the credit card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
I thought that the circumstances of Mr Ms case were very similar. Here, the same business 
(Business F) took payment for Mr Ms purchase of Business H holiday club memberships. 
So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion 
and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
I also considered whether there might be an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mr M 
and Barclaycard arising out of the purchases. But again, I could only consider how the 
agreements between Mr M and Business H affected the fairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship, if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, for the same reasons, I 
didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had Mr M suggested there was an unfair 
relationship for any other reason.
Under the rules set out above, I said must take into account the law, but come to my own 
determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt think it 
would be fair to make Barclaycard responsible for Business Hs failures when the law 
doesnt impose such a liability  I couldnt see that Barclaycard and Business H were 
connected in any way nor was there any other reason to say Barclaycard should be 
responsible for Business Hs failings.
Finally, I considered PRs argument that the agreements with Business H were null and 
void due to breaches of EU law, taking into account a judgment of a Spanish court that it 
said was important. In short, PR said the Spanish judgment held that certain types of 
timeshares or holiday club memberships were held to be incompatible with Spanish law and the agreements were declared nullified. PR said the Spanish legislation was implementing 
an EU Directive, which also had effect within the UK. It said this meant Mr Ms memberships, 
as well as the related credit agreement, are also null and void. I disagreed for two reasons. 
First, the credit agreement in question was for a credit card and I thought that entire 
agreement cant be set aside just because an agreement that may have been funded by the 
card could be rescinded. Secondly, Business H was a company incorporated in the British 
Virgin Islands and the agreement states that it is governed by the laws of the British Virgin 
Islands. I couldnt see why a Spanish court judgment would, or could, apply to the 
interpretation of these agreements.
It followed, therefore, that I didnt think Barclaycard need to answer the claims made.
Barclaycard responded to say it had nothing further to add.
PR responded on behalf of Mr Ms estate. It pointed to parts of the CCA that it thought meant 
there was the right sort of D-C-S agreement in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PR has said that there are some instances where there can be a D-C-S agreement, even 
where the supplier isnt paid directly using credit. PR points to s.184 and s.187 CCA and 
argues that there can still be a D-C-S agreement in place if the supplier is an associate of 
the company that received a credit card payment. 
For Business H and Business F to be associates under the CCA, it would need to be shown 
that the same person is a controller of both companies or that a controller of one is an 
associate of a controller of the other. The term controller is itself defined in s.189 CCA. 
However, PR hasnt provided any evidence that such a person exists nor that Business H 
and Business F are associated in any other way. So I still dont think there was a D-C-S 
agreement in place for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. It follows, I still dont 
think Barclaycard needs to answer the claims made. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint brought by the estate of Mr M against Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman