DRN-1700092
 
The complaint
Mr D, as executor of Ms Ds estate, complains about errors by The Royal Bank of Scotland
plc relating to mortgages on two properties in Ms Ds estate.
What happened
Mr D is the executor of Ms Ds estate. The estate included two properties, both subject to
mortgages with RBS.
Mr D inherited the two properties from Ms D. After obtaining probate, which took some time,
Mr D applied to RBS for two mortgages. He intended to use the proceeds to repay the
existing mortgages on the properties.
Mr D says RBS didnt process his mortgage applications appropriately. He says RBS
wouldnt process the mortgage applications until hed repaid the existing mortgages and
transferred the property title into his name  which he couldnt do until his mortgages
completed. And, in the meantime, it wouldnt let him make payments to the existing
mortgage accounts. He says interest on the mortgages accumulated and RBS threatened to
take possession of the properties.
When the complaint was brought to us, Mr Ds mortgages had completed and the mortgages 
in Ms Ds name had been repaid. Mr D says that due to delays by RBS, the previous 
mortgages accumulated more interest than they ought to have done. He says this came to 
more than £30,000, which he wants the bank to compensate him for.
Our adjudicator said RBS had caused some delays to Mr Ds personal mortgage
applications and its service had been poor. However, she said there was no evidence that
Mr D had asked for account details to make payments to the existing mortgage accounts.
She said RBS should increase the amount of compensation it offered. RBS has since
offered to pay compensation of £650. 
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me. But before considering the merits 
of this complaint, I issued a decision setting out which parts of the complaint we could 
consider. This was because some of the concerns had been raised outside of the time limits 
set out under our rules. I also explained that some of Mr Ds concerns related to how RBS 
dealt with him in his personal capacity, whereas others related to issues experienced while 
he was acting as an executor  and those matters needed to be dealt with separately. This 
decision deals solely with the issues connected to Ms Ds estate.
my provisional decision - and the parties' responses
I sent a provisional decision to the parties. I said it wasn't fair and reasonable to require RBS 
to refund interest on the mortgage accounts, as I didn't think Mr D would have made 
payments sooner if RBS had given him better information about making payments.I didn't think it was reasonable for RBS to continue with recovery action in early 2018, while 
Mr D's re-mortgages were proceeding. 
RBS offered to refund fees applied to the accounts after December 2017 and pay 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr D. I said its offer was fair.
Mr D didn't agree. He said he asked for account details by phone, and as RBS hadn't 
provided recordings this couldn't be properly investigated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D wasnt given the information he needed to make payments to the mortgage accounts. It 
declined his offer to pay the arrears in October 2017.
My previous decision explains that I can only look into this aspect of Mr Ds complaint after
21 December 2016.
I understand Mr D's frustration that RBS can't provide recordings of the calls where he says 
he asked for payment details. I appreciate that Mr D might not agree, but I think there's 
enough evidence for me to reach a fair decision based on the evidence that is available. 
Mr D says he asked RBS for the mortgage account details so that he could set up payments. 
He says RBS and its solicitors didnt provide account details to make payments until RBS 
started recovery action in October 2017. 
RBS says it has no record of Mr D asking for account details to make a payment. However, I 
think RBS was aware that Mr D wanted to make payments: in December 2016 it responded 
to Mr Ds complaint about having difficulty making payments.
RBSs records say it sent an email to Mr Ds sister in May 2017 with the sort code, account 
number and other details needed for a bank transfer. Mr D says this didn't include all the 
information he needed, and at this point he only had an account number for one of the 
mortgages. Mr D provided a statement from his sister expressing concern that RBS hadn't 
copied Mr D into the email it sent to her. But if the intention was to help Mr D - as I'm sure it 
was - Ms D could have forwarded the email to Mr D.
Mr D says when he tried to pay the arrears in October 2017 he was told he couldnt, as the
whole amount had become due. RBSs notes say that it told him he could make payments if
he wanted to do so, but this wouldnt stop litigation action as the whole amount was due. I
can see that there could have been a misunderstanding here, but I dont think RBS told Mr D 
he couldnt pay the arrears.
I think it would have been helpful if RBS had sent clear information to Mr D in December
2016 or shortly after about how he could make payments. However, RBS says it has no 
record of Mr D contacting it and asking for account details or asking to make a payment. No 
payments were received after RBS provided account details to Mr Ds sister in May 2017 
(even for the mortgage account that Mr D says he did have the account number for), or after 
October 2017 when Mr D had the account details.
So, on balance, I dont think its likely Mr D would have made payments if he had been given 
better information about how to do so any earlier. So Im not intending to require RBS to 
refund any interest.RBS put pressure on Mr D to repay the mortgages; it took recovery action and applied
charges to the mortgage accounts.
Mr D says he always understood the need to repay the mortgages. But he couldnt do
anything about this until probate was granted. Mr D says RBS should have understood this.
He says he then had difficulty getting information about how to make payments. And there
were delays in his applications to re-mortgage  which Ive dealt with in a separate decision.
 I have a lot of sympathy for what Mr D says. I understand that he was limited in what he
could do until probate was granted  which took over a year. But I must also consider RBSs
position here. By the time RBS instructed solicitors to start recovery action, it hadnt received 
any payments to the mortgage accounts for about a year. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for it to look at ways to recover the debt.
However, I do have concerns about the recovery action taken after November 2017. At this
point there was an agreed way forward for the mortgages to be repaid.
In late November 2017 RBS made mortgage offers to Mr D. Both parties intended that the
proceeds would be used to repay the existing mortgages. Mr D sent documents to the
solicitors acting for him and RBS on the re-mortgages in early December. But he then
received an email from the solicitor saying the re-mortgages couldnt go ahead until Mr D
was the registered owner of the properties at the Land Registry. It seems there was
confusion between RBS and its solicitors about the process to transfer the property titles into 
Mr Ds name and re-finance the existing mortgages.
RBS acknowledged in its final response letter issued in early November 2017 that thered
been a problem with the transfer of titles due to Mr Ds previous mortgage applications being 
processed incorrectly. I can appreciate how frustrating it must have been for Mr D when it 
seemed the same error was being repeated in December 2017. Mr D appointed his own 
solicitors in January 2018. I can understand why he did this. I dont know if the change in 
solicitors caused any delay, but if it did I dont think its reasonable to say Mr D is
responsible.
RBS had appointed a different firm of solicitors to recover the debt owed by Ms Ds estate. In 
early 2018 these solicitors wrote to Mr D about recovery action. The letter said RBS would 
only put recovery action on hold if Mr D provided evidence of his mortgage applications. But 
the applications were with RBS and it knew the mortgages were being taken out to repay the 
mortgages in Ms Ds name: I dont think it was necessary or helpful to ask Mr D to provide 
proof of the applications. It likely added to Mr Ds upset.
I dont think it was reasonable for RBS to continue with recovery action in early 2018. It was
aware  and should have made its solicitors aware  that the re-mortgages were proceeding. 
RBS has agreed to pay compensation and refund any arrears charges and litigation fees 
applied to the mortgage account after 1 December 2017.
Putting things right
Since Mr D brought his complaints to us, RBS offered to pay compensation of £650. Mr D
says this isnt enough. I appreciate this must have been a difficult and upsetting time for
Mr D, whod recently lost his sister. Its difficult to find an amount of compensation that could
make up for the distress Mr D must have felt and which is fair to both parties here. But
overall, I think £650 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the upset and
inconvenience RBS caused Mr D in relation to his two complaints.I think RBS should pay £150 of this compensation to Mr D for the upset and inconvenience
caused to him as executor of Ms Ds estate.
RBS also offered to refund the arrears fees and litigation fees applied to the previous
mortgage accounts after December 2017 (a total of £330). It should also refund any interest
related to the arrears fees and litigation fees applied to the mortgage accounts.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
pay £150 to Mr D; and
refund the arrears fees and litigation fees, and related interest, applied to 
the mortgage accounts in Ms Ds name after December 2017.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms D 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman