DRN-3644532
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) handled a 
claim he made to it.
What happened
Mr As credit card was used to pay for the deposit on a booking of a holiday cottage in 
Scotland.
However, as a result of Covid-19 some temporary travel restrictions were put in place. In the 
travelling party there were some people from Manchester impacted by this. Mr A says the 
family had to re-arrange the holiday to take place in England.
Mr A says the supplier of the cottage refuses to refund for the booking despite having a 
contractual clause allowing for refunds or rearrangements in these circumstances. So he 
made a claim to AMEX - which it refused. It said Mr A didnt have a claim under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) because of the way the payment was made.
Our investigator looked at the matter  in summary she concluded:
The way the payment was made did not prevent Mr A having a valid Section 75 claim 
against AMEX, but the supplier was not in breach of contract; and
chargeback would not have succeeded as Mr A had raised one with his other card 
provider.
Mr A disagreed. In summary, he has said that in relying on the term in its contract the 
supplier is aiding and abetting a criminal offence by allowing people in breach of Covid-19 
restrictions to remain at the property. Our investigator responded to state that her view 
remained the same and that any allegations of a criminal nature are better dealt with in 
court. 
Mr A does not agree so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered the submissions of the parties, but my role is deciding disputes 
informally. It follows that I have not addressed every submission in detail but focused on 
matters I consider central to the dispute. 
I am sorry to hear about the difficult situation Mr A and his family found themselves in 
regarding travel plans and the pandemic, however, it is worth noting that AMEX is not the 
supplier of holiday accommodation here. I am looking at its role in respect of its obligations 
as a provider of financial services. In doing so I consider the card protections of Section 75 
and chargeback to be particularly relevant here. 
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mr A to hold AMEX liable for a like claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation that he would have against a supplier of goods or services paid for using 
his credit card.
There are certain technical criteria that need to be in place for Section 75 to apply and one of 
those is having the correct debtor-creditor-supplier DCS agreement for a valid claim. There 
are a couple of findings I have about this. However, it is worth noting that regardless of 
whether the parties agree with me as to the validity of the DCS agreement - I dont think it 
makes a difference to the outcome of the Section 75 claim in any event. In brief, my findings 
as to the DCS agreement are as follows:
AMEX indicated the way the credit card payment was made meant there was no 
such DCS agreement for a valid claim. I dont think this is correct because the 
additional party involved in the transaction appear to simply be acting as a payment 
processor; however
in order for Mr A as the cardholder to have a valid claim against the supplier for 
breach of contract (which he can subsequently hold AMEX responsible for via 
Section 75) he has to have the relevant contractual agreement with it. I have noted 
the booking agreement with the supplier appears to be only with Mr As wife. It is she 
that received and is named on the booking confirmation. Furthermore, the terms and 
conditions suggest she as booker/hirer is entering into the agreement with the 
supplier for the hire with ultimate responsibility for the booking and the condition of 
the cottage. This along with the correspondence with the supplier introduces a 
possible argument that Mr A does in fact not have the correct agreement with the 
supplier in order to have a Section 75 claim against AMEX for breach of contract. I 
dont think it enough to say that just because Mr A paid for the booking he 
automatically has a claim against the supplier for breach of the term in question.
However, despite my comments above, I dont think DCS is something that requires further 
scrutiny - as I have already indicated, it does not make a difference to my outcome in any 
event. I say this because I dont consider there to be a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier here.
Misrepresentation is not central to this dispute  the key issue is whether the clause in the 
contract with the supplier dealing with disruption from the pandemic entitles the booker to a 
full refund (or rearrangement) in these circumstances. Mr A thinks it does and I have noted 
and considered his argument why.
Mr A has relied on reasoning which centres around criminal allegations and says that this 
does not need an expert to determine. However, complexity aside I consider these criminal 
allegations are something more appropriately dealt with by a court and would not be 
something I consider it reasonable for AMEX to have covered in its handling of this Section 
75 claim here in any event. Here, I consider the relevant matter central to the claim against 
AMEX is in respect of breach of contract.
My starting point is that I accept, and it doesnt appear to be in dispute that:
the cottage was not forced to close to guests during the period of the booking and 
remained open Covid-19 restrictions meant that the guests travelling from Manchester were unable 
to get to the cottage
those travelling from the booking location were not impacted by the restrictions on 
travel
Mr As wife cancelled the booking rather than the supplier because of the issues with 
some of the party not being able to attend 
The standard terms and conditions of the booking do not appear to give the hirer a right to a 
refund or other redress in these circumstances.  However, there is a specific clause in the 
suppliers contract that deals with issues that come about as a result of the pandemic as 
follows:
COVID19 Specific - In addition to our standard terms and conditions we can also confirm 
that if travel restrictions or lockdown exist where guests are unable to leave their home (the 
booking address) or if the cottages are unable to accept guests because of restrictions or 
lockdown at the cottages then we shall offer a change of dates or refund.
It is clear to me the first part of the clause entitles the hirer to a refund or new dates if guests 
are unable to leave the booking address. In this case I understand the guests who were 
subject to the travel restrictions were not coming from the booking address, but Manchester. 
So I dont think this part of the clause applies in these circumstances.
I note Mr A has argued that the second part of the clause applies here  but I dont agree.  
Taking what I consider the most natural reading of the clause as a whole it is the first part 
that deals with the restrictions on travellers (from the booking address) while the second part 
concerns restrictions on the accommodation itself and whether it was prevented from 
opening to guests due to a lockdown at the locale of the cottages. That was not the case 
here as the cottages were open for business. In summary, I do not consider the clause 
applies where those guests from the booking address are not subject to travel restrictions 
preventing them attending and the cottages are open even if other guests in the wider party 
from other addresses are (unfortunately) impacted by restrictions which mean they cant 
travel.
While I appreciate arguments have been made in respect of how to interpret the clause 
differently (in light of potential criminal offences) I refer back to what I said above in regard to 
my role in resolving disputes and the specific issue I am considering here in respect of the 
Section 75 claim against AMEX.
For completeness I dont think the contract was likely frustrated as the accommodation was 
open and able to provide a service to guests from the booking address in accordance with 
the contract. However, even if I agreed that this contract had been frustrated I am not 
persuaded it follows that this means there is a breach of contract giving rise to a successful 
Section 75 claim against AMEX.
Chargeback
Our investigator has said a chargeback would not have succeeded here because one had 
been raised on the other card. It is not entirely clear to me that a chargeback would have 
failed simply because Mr A had raised one on another card, although I note Mr A has not 
come back to contest this finding. However, in the interest of completeness I dont think a 
chargeback would have succeeded here in any event for the reasons I have explained 
above (the service was still available and there was no clear breach of contract). I dont think 
the chargeback scheme would have got involved with the complexity of looking into the alleged criminal offences either. 
Overall, for the reasons I have given I dont think AMEX acted unfairly in declining to refund 
Mr A for the holiday cottage. I understand what occurred was difficult for Mr A and his family 
and in respect of unprecedented circumstances out of their control, however I am looking at 
the matter based on what AMEX should fairly have done as a provider of financial services. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman