DRN-2466468
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about advice they received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) in 2002 to invest £66,000 into a unit trust and £14,000 in two ISAs all invested 
in the same fund.
Mr and Mrs L are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC) that complains on 
their behalf. It says they should have been advised to use the money to repay their mortgage 
instead.
What happened
Mr L left his employment and received a lump sum of £80,000. He was also in receipt of a 
pension income.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs L met with Nationwides adviser to discuss investing that money. 
Nationwide recommended they invest £7,000 each, in a stocks and shares ISA invested in a 
High Income Fund and £66,000 in a joint unit trust invested in the same fund.
Mr and Mrs L took out the investments recommended.  Their ISAs were surrendered several 
years ago and before another business took over Nationwide investments in 2008. So, 
unfortunately Nationwide is unable to provide any information about their transaction history 
or performance. 
The unit trust investment was surrendered in December 2019.
In February 2020 the CMC representing Mr and Mrs L made a complaint to Nationwide on 
their behalf. Their representative said Mr and Mrs L should have been advised to repay their 
mortgage instead of making this investment. The representative also said that too large a 
proportion of the lump sum had been invested in the same fund.
Nationwide said it wasnt able to progress Mr and Mrs Ls complaint regarding the ISAs as 
there was no information available. It didnt uphold the complaint about the unit trust 
investment. Nationwide said Mr and Mrs L had been advised about repaying their mortgage 
and investing less but they didnt want to do that. It said Mr and Mrs L wanted to receive an 
income from the lump sum and they had done so, as a monthly income had been paid and 
several withdrawals had been made over the years. 
Nationwide also said it had compared the performance of the investment with the return if 
the money hadnt been invested, using the Bank of England Fixed Rate Bond (12-17 month 
maturity) Index as a comparator. It said it had used that comparator because it was 
recognised as representing the best generally available deposit returns for any given period. 
Nationwide said the comparison showed that Mr and Mrs L hadnt been financially 
disadvantaged by investing in the unit trust, in fact they were better off. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with Nationwide and their representative referred their complaint 
to our service. 
Their representative noted Nationwide had said Mr and Mrs L were advised to leave 30% of 
their money in cash but despite this they insisted they wanted to invest £80,000. The 
representative said this contradicted Nationwides statement that Mr and Mrs L didnt want to 
lose access to their capital. 
Their representative said Mr and Mrs L had told him if they had been advised to do so, they 
wouldve had no hesitation in paying off the mortgage.
The CMC questioned Nationwides comments about the projections. It said the mid-range 
projection showed virtually no capital growth, with nearly all of the yearly growth paid out as 
income. So, it said as virtually none of the interest from the corporate bonds was re-invested, 
next years returns would have no reason to be any higher. It said it was worth noting the 
asset mix of the fund made it unlikely returns would exceed the 7% projection over the long-
term, and therefore all the return would be paid as income with no opportunity for capital 
growth. It also said as the unit trust would be taxed at 20%, this made it almost impossible 
that the fund could outperform the rate paid on Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage.
Our investigator considered their complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He noted 
that Mr and Mrs L had accepted that neither party had any information about their ISAs, so 
the complaint being considered was restricted to the unit trust investment. 
He felt that Nationwide had considered Mr and Mrs Ls financial circumstances in detail 
before it made its recommendation. The investigator said he was satisfied that the option of 
paying off the mortgage had been discussed but Mr and Mrs L had declined that option.
He noted the lump sum was invested into the High Income fund which was aimed at 
providing a higher income than a deposit-based savings account, by investing in a portfolio 
of corporate bonds and fixed interest securities.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs Ls reported priority was to be able to earn around 5.75% 
interest on their investment and to be able to take income payments from this. He said this 
was the aim of the High Income fund and he could see that Mr and Mrs L were able to take 
income payments.
The investigator was satisfied that Nationwide had discussed the relevant options with       
Mr and Mrs L. So, he didnt think the recommendation was inappropriate, taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances and objectives. He also noted that Nationwide had carried out 
a comparison calculation between the investment return and the Bank of England fixed rate 
bond (12-17 month maturity) Index and had found there had been no loss. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. 
Their representative said when he discussed this with Mr L, he had been adamant that he 
wasnt against paying off his mortgage. The representative said Mr L had an endowment 
mortgage so he could have paid off the mortgage, leaving the endowment to mature for 
another purpose without the risk of a shortfall. He said this way Mr L would have avoided the 
set-up costs of a new investment. 
The representative said Mr Ls comments about not needing access to the money 
suggested Mr L had no reason to be against repaying the mortgage debt.
The representative said if Mr L was still in a deal for his mortgage, it was more likely a fixed 
rate that had been taken out a number of years prior and would have had minimal, if any, 
repayment costs.The representative said accessing an investment would have been very inefficient 
considering the set-up charges and commission and the possible exposure to short term 
market volatility. 
He also said that accessing an income was similarly inefficient. The representative said 
whilst Mr L wouldnt have received an income by paying off his mortgage, he would have 
had significantly lower expenses.  So, his disposable income would have been higher, and it 
wouldnt have been dependent upon investment performance. 
The representative referred to the point of sale documents and said he been informed by   
Mr and Mrs L that the advisor had simply told them where to sign and they had done so. The 
representative said there wasnt time to go through all the information they had been 
discussing with the advisor and Mr and Mrs L trusted the advisor as the expert. So, Mr and 
Mrs Ls representative didnt agree that the signature at the end of the forms was compelling 
evidence that these matters were truly discussed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have acknowledged that there isnt any information available in respect of the 
history and transactions for the stocks and shares ISAs. So, this decision is only about the 
recommendation to invest in the unit trust investment. Although, I will still take into account 
the amount invested in the ISA investments as part of the factual background and when 
considering the total amount invested in the recommended fund.
Mr and Mrs L met with an adviser from Nationwide in 2002. Mr L had recently received a 
lump sum of £80,000 which was deposited in a bank account and they were looking into 
investment options. 
A fact find was completed which recorded their financial circumstances and objectives. Mr L 
was in his 50s and retired with a pension income of about £14,500. Mrs L was in her 40s and 
employed with an income of about £17,000. They held £83,000 in savings which included 
the £80,000 lump sum. They also had some shares worth around £8,000. 
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage on their property with about £39,000 left to pay over 13 years. 
An account was taken of their income and outgoings which showed they had around £700 
per month in disposable income. 
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs L were looking for an income from your £80,000 Iump sum 
to supplement your current income and can invest over the longer term of around 5 years.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative complains they should have been advised to use some of 
their capital to repay their mortgage instead of investing the money in the unit trust. 
But I can see it was recorded in the fact find that they didnt want to repay the mortgage 
because they didnt want to lose the money. The fact find records:
We discussed the possibilities of repaying all or part of your mortgage as this would reduce 
the need for income. You advised that you did not wish to consider this at present and 
wanted to invest your capital and did not wish to " lose it" by paying off your mortgage. You told me that your mortgage was still in a deal and did not wish to give this any consideration 
at present.
Their representative doesnt agree that this was discussed and says Mr and Mrs L were 
simply told to sign the fact find. But I think that paying off the mortgage was discussed 
because Mr and Mrs L signed the fact find confirming the information they had provided was 
correct. And in the declaration section it asked them to:
Please ensure you read this document and the following declaration carefully before 
signing.
Mr and Mrs L also signed the recommendations report confirming they had read and 
understood it. And that report specifically referred, and directed them to, the fact find 
document. 
I also take into account that the fact find and recommendations report are contemporaneous 
documents completed at the time. So, I think they are likely to represent a summary of what 
was discussed. Whereas Mr and Mrs L are now trying to recall discussions that took place 
about 18 years ago. So, overall, I am satisfied on balance this was discussed.
It is sensible to repay liabilities which are accruing interest- particularly where interest is 
being paid at a higher rate than the likely return on an investment of the same amount of 
capital. But the disadvantage of paying off that liability is that you permanently lose access to 
the capital. I think that is different to investing in the middle term, where although it may not 
be advisable to withdraw your capital in the early years, it is still possible to access it. And 
here it was recorded that Mr and Mrs L didnt want to lose their capital. I consider they 
wanted to use it to provide a supplemental income. This was also set out in the 
recommendations report which stated they were looking to invest the lump sum to achieve a 
regular monthly income.
I also note there was reference to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage being still in a deal. So, I think 
it is likely that Mr and Mrs L didnt want to pay a penalty fee, which could be due if they paid 
off the mortgage, and that was an additional factor that made that option less appealing to 
them. 
Their representative has said it was unlikely that any fee, or more than a minimal fee, was 
payable. But I think this must have been something Mr and Mrs L were aware of, as they 
gave this information to the adviser at the time. If there was no consequence of still being in 
a deal I dont think Mr and Mrs L would have given this information, or alternatively, I think it 
likely they would have qualified it, by saying there would be no adverse impact from paying 
off the mortgage. I also note the fact find recorded the start date for their mortgage as only 
two years before which would support the statement that they were still tied into an 
introductory rate or deal.
I can also see that saving and investing for the future was recorded as an important priority 
for Mr and Mrs L in the fact find and efficient repayment of a mortgage loan was recorded as 
a less important priority.
So, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ls priority was to generate an income with some, or all of 
the lump sum of £80,000. On that basis I dont consider it was unsuitable on balance to 
recommend putting money into an investment rather than repaying their mortgage. 
I have taken into account the points made by Mr and Mrs Ls representative about 
comparing the rate paid on the mortgage and the likely return on their investment. Their 
representative said the mid-range projection showed almost no capital growth and he said 
the higher range projection couldnt have been achieved given the asset range. He also said the tax payable on the investment meant that it was almost impossible for the investment to 
outperform the rate on Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage. 
An illustration was produced for Mr and Mrs L which showed they could potentially take 
income from the investment for five years and, based on the medium growth rate, still retain 
slightly more than their original capital. So, while I acknowledge there was a real risk the 
return on the investment wouldnt outperform the mortgage rate, I think that Mr and Mrs L 
found the potential income and return appealing, because they wanted to achieve a 
supplemental income and retain all, or most, of their capital. 
On that projection after five years they would have taken an income but still have slightly 
more than their original lump sum. So, they would have a means to keep generating income 
plus the ability to access that lump sum, if they needed to, to make withdrawals. Whereas if 
they paid off their mortgage, Mr and Mrs L wouldve reduced their liabilities and therefore 
needed less income, but they wouldnt have had a capital sum which they could access if 
they wished to. And I note they did make several withdrawals of over £1,000 during the 
years they held the unit trust investment.
Proportion of savings invested
I consider the main focus of this complaint is about whether Mr and Mrs L should have been 
advised to repay their mortgage. However, I have also considered the proportion of their 
savings invested, which was all invested in the same fund.
 
As I have said, I consider Mr and Mrs Ls priority was to generate a supplemental income 
which is why they chose to invest in an income fund. And I think this is borne out by the fact 
they received monthly income from the investment and made regular withdrawals over the 
years.
I take into account that the £80,000 invested in the unit trust and the two ISAs left               
Mr and Mrs L with only £3,000 on deposit. So, nearly all of their savings were invested, and 
all in one fund. I consider there would be some risks involved in investing that proportion of 
their savings because in the event of an emergency, or a sudden unexpected expense  
they wouldnt have a sizable emergency fund to fall back on.
I also consider their attitude to risk was fairly cautious as they didnt have any real 
investment experience and they didnt have capacity to lose all of this capital because their 
ability to replace it was fairly limited. Mr L was receiving a pension and their income left them 
with around £700 in monthly disposable income. So, I think their disposable income did 
leave them some leeway to invest at risk, but I note if they were to lose a significant 
proportion of the lump sum it would take several years to replace it. 
The High Income Fund was invested in corporate bonds and fixed interest securities. So, I 
dont think the fund itself posed more risk than Mr and Mrs L were willing to take over the 
medium term in order to generate an income. But I also have to consider whether investing 
that proportion of their capital in that fund was suitable taking into account their objectives 
and circumstances.
I can see from the fact find that there was some discussion about spreading their capital 
over a number of different types of investment. And Nationwide explained the normal spread 
of investments it would generally recommend for someone with their attitude to risk- and 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs L that this recommendation was not in line with that.
The adviser recorded in the fact find that:I pointed out that our guidelines would suggest a prudent investor should have 30 % 
invested in cautious investments 40 % in Prudent and 30% in Balanced. You told me that 
you only wanted to consider investing £80,000 into a low to medium risk fund which would 
produce a regular monthly income. I advised that Nationwide would normally recommend 
that you spread your investment more, with some more cautious type investments however 
you indicated that you would only consider recommendations where an income was 
produced and would be happy with investing such an amount in one fund and did not wish to 
consider alternative types of investments. You appreciate that my recommendations are 
outside our normal guidance to comply with your request. 
I am satisfied on balance that Mr and Mrs L were made aware by their adviser that the 
recommended spread of investments for someone with their attitude to risk would include 
some more cautious investments. 
So, I consider they chose to continue notwithstanding the issues raised by the adviser about 
the spread of investments.
It was also recorded on the fact find that:
You advised that you were looking for a low to medium risk fund which produced an income 
with no initial charges. We discussed the Guaranteed Equity Bond which you found 
unsuitable as you are looking for income. You did not wish to consider investing any part of 
your capital for growth. We discussed the benefits of a spread of investments however you 
only want to consider an income producing fund with low to medium risk.
And as I have said they did take a monthly income from the investment in accordance with 
their objective to generate additional income.
I also note that in addition to the monthly income they received, Mr and Mrs L did withdraw 
some larger sums from their investment over the years  so they were able to access larger 
sums in the event they needed to. And I think they had the option to use their disposable 
income for any unexpected expenditure in the early years of the investment, when the 
impact of set-up costs was most likely to be felt and large withdrawals wouldnt be advisable.
So, while I think in Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances it would have been prudent to invest a 
smaller proportion of their savings and leave more on deposit, or in a fixed rate product, it 
appears that they wanted to invest this amount to try and generate income. And I think        
Mr and Mrs L wanted to invest in an income fund as it was designed for that purpose. So, on 
that basis Im not persuaded on balance that the recommendation was unsuitable.
In any event, I dont consider Mr and Mrs L would have been better off financially by 
investing less of their savings in the unit trust and placing the rest on deposit or in fixed 
interest products. 
The reason I say this is that Nationwide has carried out a comparison between the 
performance of their unit trust investment and the relevant comparator, which is what I would 
use if I determined that some, or all of this capital, shouldnt have been invested. And that 
comparison has shown that there was no loss and Mr and Mrs L were in fact better off.
Nationwide has provided its calculations, so I am also satisfied it has carried out the 
calculation in line with the guidance issued by our service.
On that basis I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ls complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society for the reasons outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman