DRN-3933104
The complaint
Miss O complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim against her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss O was involved in an incident with a cyclist in mid-2022 which damaged her car, so she 
raised a claim to Aviva. She says Aviva handled things poorly by failing to provide her with a 
courtesy car, requesting unnecessary information, and returned her car in a poor condition 
after repairing it. She says it was dirty, damaged, and wouldnt start. She thinks Aviva should 
compensate her for this, her out of pocket expenses, and refund her policy excess. 
Aviva say the address on the policy didnt match the address Miss O was staying at when 
the incident occurred. So, they asked for more information to validate the claim. They also 
say they sent an engineer to inspect the car after Miss O reported issues, but they found no 
outstanding claim or repair issues, and the car started and ran normally when tested. They 
said they would consider an independent report on the outstanding issues if Miss O provided 
one. Miss O remained unhappy and approached our Service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Aviva took 
reasonable steps to validate the claim, and wasnt persuaded repairs were poor, caused 
issues, or missed areas of claim-related damage. Miss O didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to decide. Ive noted Miss Os request for a call ahead of my decision, but Im 
satisfied Ive enough information to reach a fair decision. If Miss O wishes to get in touch 
with our investigator to speak about the decision, she can contact the investigator to discuss 
its content. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many points have been made in relation to this complaint  I havent addressed each one 
individually. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt 
meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Claim validation 
The policy says, under the general conditions, a policyholder must provide all information, 
documents, evidence, and help Aviva needs to settle a claim. And a failure to do so may 
result in a claim being delayed or suspended. All things considered  I find Aviva acted 
reasonably when requesting Miss O provided further information. I say this because the 
policy allows them to do so. While I understand why Miss O felt this was unnecessary, I dont 
find what they asked her to provide was unreasonable or disproportionate given the address 
in the policy, and the address Miss O says she was staying at when the incident took place. 
This was some 200 miles away from the address on the policy. 
This process did take some time, but I cant fairly hold Aviva wholly responsible for these 
delays given they were awaiting on further information from Miss O. The claim notes suggest 
Miss O was offered a courtesy car while repairs would take place, in September 2022, but 
this was declined. Aviva say Miss Os car was mobile following the incident, so the repair 
garage prioritised courtesy cars to customers immobile. It also appears the claim hadnt 
been accepted while Miss O requested a courtesy car, or when repairs took place, given the 
validation process was still being progressed. 
In concluding, it seems the majority of the delays were attributed to the claim validation 
process which, as mentioned above, I find was reasonable. This information can impact a 
claim, so it was appropriate Aviva took these steps here. And in any case, I dont think these 
delays made a material difference to the claim. I say this because despite the validation 
process taking place, the garage undertook repairs and returned Miss Os car to her. So, I 
wont be requiring Aviva to compensate Miss O for this aspect, or refund any of her out of 
pocket expenses. 
repairs 
Miss O says her car was returned dirty, damaged, and wouldnt start. She provided a report 
from a third-party which said, broadly, there were multiple ground faults with multiple 
components, possibly some wiring damage, and Miss O should contact the repair garage to 
establish whether these issues were claim-related. The report doesnt state whether these 
issues were most likely caused by the repairer. The report also notes the engineer tried 
multiple times and starts which suggests to me they were able to start the car. 
Aviva sent an engineer to inspect the car following Miss Os concerns which I think was the 
right thing to do. They reported the car started and ran normally when tested, the faults 
found by the third-party were no longer showing, and a service was due. They informed Miss 
O to complete the service and request the manufacturer ran a diagnostics test. Following 
this visit, however, Miss O reported the car wouldnt start again, so Avivas engineer 
reattended. 
Aviva say their engineer arrived at Miss Os address but Miss O, nor the car, were available. 
They attended again in November 2022 and reported the car was parked on the roadside 
rather than the parking bay the initial inspection took place in. And the mileage in September 
2022 was noted as 82,733 miles, while in November 2022, it was 83,023, which they said 
suggested the car had been in use. The engineer concluded that  in their opinion  claim-
related issues had been repaired, and the works carried out by the repairer were not 
mechanical, so it was unlikely the error codes removed by the third-party were claim or 
repair-related. 
I accept it would have been frustrating for Miss O having to report further issues to Aviva. 
But Im satisfied Aviva took reasonable steps to consider these issues by sending an 
engineer to carry out inspections and testing. And I cant fairly agree Aviva should be held 
responsible for failing to carry out adequate repairs, causing further damage, or missing 
areas of damage caused by the claim. I say this because Avivas inspections found no claim 
or repair-related issues. They also said they would consider a further independent report 
from Miss O highlighting her concerns, which I think is reasonable.  It follows I dont find 
Aviva failed to settle the claim fairly and reasonably. 
Summary 
The policy entitles Aviva to take reasonable steps to validate a claim before accepting it. And 
I find they applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably here. And for the reasons Ive mentioned above, Im not satisfied on balance UKI carried out poor repairs, caused further 
issues with Miss Os car, or failed to repair all claim-related areas of damage adequately. 
I do agree things could have been handled better at times and with a higher level of 
customer service. For example, I think Aviva could have sent an engineer to inspect Miss 
Os car sooner than they did. But I dont think this delay had any material impact on the 
overall claim as such given the engineers findings. So, I wont be requiring Aviva to take any 
action here. I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss O. But it ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve her dispute with Aviva  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman