DRN-1719554
 
The complaint
Ms G says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by post in 2000. The policy gave Ms G 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It was taken out at the same time as Ms G 
applied for her credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms G recalls she took out the PPI during a phone call, and she trusted the adviser. But 
Capital One has provided a copy of the application form that was sent to Ms G's home, and 
that she completed and returned. So I think, on balance, she applied for the card and PPI by 
post, without any direct contact with the bank. Ms G says she didnt want the policy due to 
her financial circumstances. But on the application form the options to select or decline PPI 
were set out with equal prominence. And her form shows she ticked the yes box indicating 
she wanted to take out PPI. Overall, I think Capital One made it clear to Ms G the PPI was 
optional, and she agreed to take it out.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms G, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. It was up to Ms G to decide whether the policy was right for her, bearing in mind her 
ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job. 
Its possible Capital One didnt give Ms G all the information about the PPI that she needed 
before she made her decision. But Ms G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. Ms G 
told us she couldnt afford to pay for an expensive policy, but the policy was competitively 
priced in the market and I havent found other evidence showing it was unaffordable for her. 
At the time Ms G had no savings or other insurances and was entitled to between three and 
six months sick pay and some redundancy pay. The PPI would have paid out in addition to 
her work benefits and for up to 12 months. So based on her circumstances at the time of this 
sale, I think it unlikely Ms G wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms G because: 
- Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms G about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Ms G, that was unfair. 
- To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back to Ms G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman