DRN-1428042
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a loan.
What happened
During a meeting in 2001 Mr and Mrs H took out a home improvement loan. At the same 
time they were sold a PPI policy. 
The policy was taken in Mr Hs name only and wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Hs loan 
repayments in the event he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and redundancy 
for up to 12 months per claim.  
Our adjudicator thought that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld as he didnt think 
they needed the policy.
Santander disagrees, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this sort of insurance on our 
website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Having done so, Im in agreement with our adjudicator and I am going to uphold this 
complaint.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs H to take the policy. I think this is also backed up by the fact 
the policy seems to have been tailored to their needs  covering Mr H only being the main 
income earner. 
What this means is that the sales advisor had to make sure that when recommending the 
PPI that the policy was suitable to Mr and Mrs Hs needs and circumstances at the time of 
the sale. 
If there were shortcomings in the advice given about the policy, I then need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs H are worse off as a result. Meaning, would they have still taken the 
policy if it hadnt been recommended to them.
The policy was sold during a meeting with a sales advisor. Santander hasnt been able to 
provide us with any of the sales documentation but I think that is understandable considering 
how much time has passed. So I dont know what was discussed at the time the policy was 
sold. But I dont think this matters because I dont think the policy was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs H.
Ive set out the policys benefits above. Mr and Mrs H say at the time the policy was sold Mr 
H was entitled to a generous sick pay and redundancy package, as well as having savings 
they could use to make their loan repayments if Mr H couldnt work. They say Mr Hs work 
benefits were in excess of what the policy offered. 
From what I understand about the company Mr H worked for and the benefit packages 
employees were on at the time, I think it is likely Mr H was entitled to the level of benefits he 
says he was. 
To make sure the policy was a suitable recommendation the sales advisor had a duty to 
check what cover Mr and Mrs H already had. I dont think they did this because if they had 
checked what cover Mr H had in place they wouldve seen it was likely Mr H already had 
enough cover in place and anything extra was supplementary to their needs. So the policy 
shouldnt have been recommended to them.
As a consequence Mr and Mrs H lost out as a result of the advisors failings in this case. If 
Mr and Mrs H had been advised properly they wouldve understood they were buying a 
policy that gave them cover they didnt need. So I dont think Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken 
the policy because I dont think they wouldve thought the benefit they got from the policy 
was worth the money.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc and I direct 
it to pay the fair compensation listed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman