DRN-2556988
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined its 
application for a new account. This meant M couldnt go on to apply for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
 
Ms director, Mrs P, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
M wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. It wasnt a customer of HSBC, so the bank 
required M to apply for either a business current account or a Bounce Back Loan feeder 
account.
 
M applied for a feeder account. These accounts are used solely to draw down the loan funds 
and transfer them onward.
The application was declined, so Mrs P complained about the decision. She said M was 
being prevented from accessing the support it needed. Mrs P also set out that she had been 
under the impression Ms feeder account application was in progress during her initial calls 
to the bank, but this wasnt the case. 
In its final response, HSBC said it had declined Ms feeder account application in line with its 
account opening criteria, and its decision was in line with current policy. 
Mrs P remained unhappy, so she referred Ms complaint to our service. She thought HSBC 
had unfairly declined Ms feeder account application because the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme was supposed to be open for all.
 
An investigator here considered what had happened, but he didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. In summary, he said:
Lenders werent obliged to offer a Bounce Back Loan to new customers and HSBC 
was one of few banks to do so; 
Under the Scheme, HSBC was entitled to decide the basis upon which it offered 
Bounce Back Loans to new customers;
Requiring applicants to open an account first was reasonable as it enabled the bank 
to complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks, in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations and requirements of the Scheme;
HSBC could assess new account applications against its own criteria, and Ms had 
been assessed fairly; and
The available evidence didnt suggest Ms application had been started when Mrs P 
phoned the bank. 
Mrs P disagreed with the investigator. She still felt it was unfair Ms feeder account 
application had been declined. Mrs P said HSBC shouldnt follow its usual account opening 
procedure because the feeder account was temporary, serving one specific purpose. She 
also reiterated that shed been given different information by HSBC during her initial calls, 
and thought Ms feeder account application was in progress some weeks earlier.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M was a new customer so  like any new customer  HSBC required it to open an account 
before it could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. And I think thats reasonable. HSBC wasnt 
obliged to offer Bounce Back Loans to new customers at all, and the Scheme allowed HSBC 
the discretion to decide how it accepted applications.
 
Further, by following an account opening process first, HSBC could complete anti-money 
laundering and Know Your Customer checks. These checks are an important legal and 
regulatory requirement, which were necessary under the Scheme rules.
 
Ive looked to see that HSBC treated Ms feeder account application as it would one from 
any other new customer. From what Ive seen, theres nothing which indicates HSBCs 
account opening criteria was amended  or became more restrictive  as a result of the 
pandemic. Rather, HSBC has shown that it assessed Ms application in line with its usual 
account opening process and standard criteria. On that basis, Im satisfied it treated M fairly 
and no differently to any other new customer. And so, as Ms application didnt meet the 
banks criteria, I dont think HSBC was wrong to decline it.
 
I appreciate Mrs P thinks HSBCs decision to follow its usual account opening process is 
unfair. Ive also noted that she doesnt think it was right for the bank to have factored in 
credit scoring. And I can understand Mrs Ps points here  particularly as lenders werent 
expected to credit score applications for the Bounce Back Loan itself. But while the sole 
purpose of the feeder account was to draw down the Bounce Back Loan, it was still a 
separate product subject to different rules and requirements. And as HSBC could decide 
how it accepted applications from new customers, I cant say it acted unfairly by following its 
usual account opening process for the feeder account  including applying its credit-scoring 
requirements.
 
Mrs P has also said she was given different information on the occasions she called HSBC, 
and that she was under the impression Ms feeder account application had been started on 
the phone. As a result, Mrs P thinks Ms feeder account application was delayed. HSBC 
cant provide evidence of the calls or what was discussed, and its explained thats because 
neither Mrs P nor M was a customer  so it had no customer profile against which to log the 
calls.
 
In any event, I dont doubt that Mrs P called HSBC just as shes said. And its unfortunate if 
there was some confusion at the time. But I think its important to remember that HSBC was 
adjusting to the pandemic too, dealing with unprecedented circumstances and a high volume 
of applications and associated correspondence. 
HSBC has said it didnt accept feeder account applications over the phone, but even if Mrs P 
was told it did and that Ms application was in hand, M still wouldve been subject to the 
same account opening process. So, even if there was some mis-understanding around getting things started, because Ms application didnt meet the banks criteria, I dont think 
that wouldve changed the overall outcome.
   
I know Mrs P will be frustrated by what Ive said. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think HSBC did anything wrong in how it dealt with Ms feeder account application. So I dont 
require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman