DRN-3603767
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr I is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr I bought solar panels for his home in September 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
ten-year loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. Mr I says the installer misled him into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr I and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
At the top of page 3 is a section with a heading in bold capital letters Estimated Year 1 Solar 
Returns. In that box, described as Estimated year one benefit from Solar PV system only, 
are two figures denoting an estimated range  the top of that range is £315.65. I think this 
figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print.
Further down the same page it says that the finance amount is £8,517.41. This was to be 
payable over ten years. (This document does not give that time scale, but I am still satisfied 
that Mr I knew that he was taking out a ten-year loan.) Mr I signed at the bottom of the same 
page, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring these figures to his 
attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr I could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £851.74 each year. That is nearly three times the stated benefit figure for the first year. 
Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr I about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Mr I recorded his meeting with the salesman, and he has provided this recording. But this 
evidence does not change my mind. The conversation is broadly consistent with what the 
contract said, except that the salesman gave a somewhat higher figure for the first years 
benefit  £520.45. The difference has not been explained, but I dont think it matters 
because it is still less than the figure of £851.74.
The salesman did say that the first year would be profitable, because the terms of the loan 
agreement were that no payments would be due for the first six months. That was actually 
incorrect, because six payments of £91.35 comes to £548.10, which is still slightly higher 
than the benefit figure given in the call. So that, if taken on its own, was misleading, but the 
salesman immediately went on to say that the second year would not be profitable. So 
I remain of the view that, overall, the salesman still made it clear that the system would 
generally not be self-funding.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman