DRN-2248699
The complaint
Mr G has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr G had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. Mr G made a claim for medical 
treatment at a clinic after falling ill whilst on a trip to Cameroon. But AXA declined the claim 
and said this was due to inconsistencies and fabricated evidence. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G referred his complaint to our Service. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint but didnt think AXA had unfairly declined the claim as it had explained the 
inconsistencies in the evidence which caused it to doubt the claim.
Mr G disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
He has been the victim of fraud
He has never lied and did not submit fabricated documents 
He didnt think AXA had done its work properly 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
AXA appointed agents and carried out an investigation. It found that the documents from the 
clinic were fabricated and the clinic had confirmed it had no log of Mr G. Mr G told AXA hed 
been the victim of fraud and provided further evidence from the clinic confirming that the 
doctor who had treated Mr G had been investigated and dismissed. And that Mr G was a 
victim of fraud. 
AXA said:
Mr G had changed his story 
An external agent was instructed to complete further investigations and validate his 
version of events 
The investigations found multiple inconsistencies and fabricated evidence 
AXA also raised a number of other points:
Details of the car registration in which Mr G travelled abroad
The owner of the clinic was interviewed but later changed her version of events 
The medical documents had been fabricated 
Mr G failed to give details of the annex in which he was treated 
He contacted AXA on 14 July asking to visit a clinic when he had already been 
admitted to an annex on 12 July 
The agent instructed by AXA spoke to the people involved but as there are a number 
of inconsistencies, it has been unable to ascertain what happened
AXA said it believed Mr G had misrepresented his claim. 
Having considered the above, Im satisfied AXA has explained why it has doubts about the 
claim and as it didnt receive a sufficient explanation to some of the questions it asked, it 
declined the claim. And so I dont think it has declined the claim unfairly. 
Ive also noted what Mr G has said about being the victim of fraud and Im sorry to hear the 
ordeal that he has gone through. During our investigation, he has provided further evidence 
and some explanations to some of the questions asked but AXA has refused to re-assess 
the claim any further. This is because it isnt satisfied with all of the responses given by Mr G 
such as confirmation of registration details of the car in which Mr G travelled abroad. 
Mr G is unhappy that AXA has refused to re-assess his claim after he has provided evidence 
to show that he has been the victim of fraud and that the doctor involved has been 
investigated. But AXA has said its still not satisfied with Mr Gs version of events. As Mr G 
hasnt been able to provide all of the evidence AXA has requested, as outlined above, I dont 
think its unreasonable to maintain its decline. 
If Mr G has been the victim of fraud, he could seek independent legal advice about his 
options. 
Finally, Mr G has raised new complaints about the way he was spoken to over the telephone 
and says AXA has discriminated against him. I can see AXA has responded to these 
complaints. But these complaints havent yet been investigated by this office and so, they 
dont form part of this decision. If Mr G remains dissatisfied with AXAs response to his new 
complaints, he can ask for a new complaint to be set up. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman