DRN-1758869
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy because AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt handle his claim fairly. 
What happened
 Mr S had an accident in December 2018. He informed AXA about it but heard nothing back. 
Seven months later, in June 2019, he discovered the third-party had issued legal 
proceedings against him and that he wasnt represented by AXA when it went to court. As a 
result, it was decided that Mr S was at fault and he incurred costs in excess of £8,000. He 
received letters from court bailiffs threatening recover the money he owed and a county 
court judgement was added to his credit file. 
 
Mr S has described this as one of the most challenging times in his life. He explained that his 
health, finances and business suffered significantly since this happened. He said that hes 
been unable to work since July 2019 and is suffering severely with poor mental health. AXA 
has accepted responsibility for the error and has taken steps to put him back in the position 
he was in prior to this happening, but Mr S would like the compensation to be increased so 
that it fairly reflects the level of upset caused. Mr S was unable to give a figure in terms of 
compensation, but he explained this has caused him to have a nervous breakdown, from 
which, hes still not recovered and is under the care of a specialist for his poor mental health.
AXA said this situation should not have happened. It had overlooked the third-partys legal 
proceedings notifications. AXA said that had it handled things correctly, it would have had a 
good chance of defending against the allegations put forward and preserving Mr S no claims 
status. And so, to put things right AXA said it has; recorded the accident as a 
non-fault claim on the claims underwriting system (CUE); settled the outstanding court costs; 
removed the adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file; offered to cover loss of 
earnings for four months (around £3,200) and pay £1,500 compensation for the overall 
trouble and upset caused. 
Our investigator thought this was fair, however, she also awarded 8% simple interest to the 
offer made by AXA.
AXA and Mr S didnt accept her findings. AXA agreed to pay interest but only for a specified 
period. It said that it could not understand why it should continue to incur interest after May 
2020 as this is when it accepted our investigators recommendations. AXA said that it should 
not have to pay interest beyond that date as it was Mr S that initially asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision and so it should not incur additional costs because of the time 
taken to reach an ombudsman.
Mr S asked for a final decision because he does not feel AXA has taken full responsibility for 
the mistakes it made and the severe impact this has had on him. And so, its for me to make 
a final decision.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint against AXA. Mainly for all the reasons already 
explained by our investigator. Im satisfied AXA made errors which had significant 
consequences for Mr S. However, I wont be increasing the award made by our investigator. 
Ill explain why. 
I wanted to reassure Mr S that Ive carefully considered how hes described the unfortunate, 
and desperate set of events that have ensued since AXAs mistake. But I cannot fairly hold it 
responsible for all that has gone wrong for Mr S. I have, however, thought about the impact 
this has had on him overall. 
 
Mr S explained that he suffered a nervous breakdown since this happened and hasnt been 
able to work since July last year. Hes also suffering with depression and anxiety and is 
under the care of a psychotherapist. Im also aware that hes had to take medication for 
sleep deprivation and antidepressants for his depression and anxiety. The reason Im 
highlighting this is because I think its relevant and helps explain why Mr S is so upset with 
AXA. The shock of receiving letters from the court without notice, the problems he 
encountered with his insurance renewal, and the refusal of a loan from his bank  because 
of the default that was added to his credit file  were perhaps amplified because of his fragile 
mental state. 
Im satisfied AXA has now put things right by correcting the misinformation on the various 
records intrinsically linked to this complaint. But the mark of its errors remain for 
Mr S. And so, theres isnt much I can say that will change this, however, Im persuaded that 
the impact it had on Mr S is substantial and therefore I agree with the recommendation made 
by our investigator.
Our investigator recommended that AXA consider Mr S loss of earnings as hed explained 
that the CCJ had made it difficult for him to work. AXA offered to cover four months worth of 
average earnings based on Mr S tax returns of 2017/18 and 2018/19. It settled on four 
months because the CCJ was on his credit file between July and October 2019. I can see 
the logic behind this as Mr S, subsequently bringing his complaint here, added that the CCJ 
had caused him problems with obtaining work. And so, on that basis, I think its a fair offer. 
But I should make clear that AXA will have to pay 8% simple interest on that amount, should 
Mr S choose to accept my decision, until the date the settlement is paid.  
The reason AXA must pay the interest awarded is because this is money that Mr S lost out 
on because of the mistake it made. And because AXA had been unable to resolve this 
complaint without an ombudsmans final decision, its taken longer to bring it to a fair 
resolution. All the while, Mr S hasnt had the benefit of the money he was owed and so AXA 
must pay interest on that balance. 
Mr S explained hes still unable to work, although he is trying to rebuild his business, its a 
slow process. Ive seen Mr S medical records and Im persuaded by his testimony. 
Although, I note Mr S physical health has been affected, I cannot fairly hold AXA 
responsible for that. But I am persuaded that his mental health problems became worse 
following the series of events from July 2019. Mr S has explained that hes thinking of taking 
further legal action against AXA as the compensation hes looking for is considerably higher 
than Ive awarded as part of my final decision. The role of the ombudsman is not to punish a 
business for making mistakes, rather, I must instruct it to return things to how they were prior 
that mistake being made and then consider a fair compensation award. I think my final 
decision has achieved this and so its now for Mr S to decide whether to accept it.  
My final decisionI uphold Mr S complaint for the reasons Ive explained. AXA Insurance UK PLC must now; 
Pay Mr S £1,500 compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused;
Pay Mr S four months loss of earnings @ £619.84 per month. 
Add 8% simple interest to the amount owed until the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman