DRN-2957549
The complaint
Ms F says S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home (LaH), irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says the lending wasnt affordable and so it shouldnt have approved it. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan LaH provided to Ms F. She borrowed £300 
on 16 December 2020. She was due to make 34 repayments of £15 a week. I understand 
she repaid this loan in full two weeks later. The information LaH has provided shows she 
paid a small amount of interest when she did this. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Fs complaint. She thought that the amount Ms F was repaying 
was too much compared to her declared income and so it was likely that she would have 
problems making the repayments going forward. So, she though that this loan shouldnt 
have been given. 
LaH disagreed, it said the proportion of the loan repayments to Ms Fs income was only 
11.6% so the loan wouldve been affordable. It thought that the lending wasnt irresponsible. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Ms F could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
The point of sale information shows that Ms Fs income was around £130 a week. Her 
expenditure was recorded as being about £80 a week. I think its reasonable to describe this 
income as very modest. And I also think that having around £50 each week left over is a 
very low amount. 
Given Ms Fs circumstances, I think its reasonable to say that any further expenditure could 
potentially cause Ms F financial difficulty. In reaching this conclusion Ive borne in mind that 
Ms F seems to be in rented accommodation with her partner, so she would have had bills to 
pay.  
I think the £15 she was due to pay to LaH was a high amount of her income and particularly 
her disposable income. And she would be left with only £35 a week for any extra, or 
unforeseen, expenditure. Its likely she would have further expenditure as her outgoings 
were recorded as being only £50 a week. 
So, taking all of this into account, I think the weekly repayment was probably too high. 
LaH said that the repayment was low and it was only a small proportion of Ms Fs income. 
But this isnt the only important factor here as Ive outlined above. I think when all of Ms Fs 
circumstances are considered the lending isnt responsible. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Ms F, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Ms F this loan.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms F towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms F which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms F originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should pay Ms F the total of A plus B.
D) LaH should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Fs credit file in 
relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Fs complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited, should put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman