DRN-3885463
Complaint
Mr T has complained about guarantor loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mr T with a guarantor loan for £1,000.00 in April 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 49.7% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £1,482.24, including interest, fees and charges of £482.24, was due to be repaid in 
24 monthly instalments of £61.76. 
Loan 1 was settled early with some of the proceeds from loan 2, which George Banco 
provided to Mr T in July 2018. The total amount advanced was £6,500.00 and while this loan 
also had an APR of 49.7% it had a term of 60 months instead of 24 months. This meant that 
the total amount to be repaid of £15,388.80, including interest, fees and charges of 
£8,888.80, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £256.48. 
However, loan 2 was also settled early. This was done with the majority of the proceeds from 
loan 3, which George Banco provided to Mr T in July 2019. The total amount advanced for 
loan 3 was £7,500.00. This loan also had an APR of 49.7% and a term of 60 months which 
meant that the total amount to be repaid of £17,756.40, including interest, fees and charges 
of £10,256.40, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £295.94. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ts complaint and she thought George Banco shouldnt 
have provided Mr T with any of his loans. So she thought that Mr Ts complaint should be 
upheld. George Banco disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr T could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before all of these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr T had had 
previous difficulty repaying credit. Im also concerned that George Banco checks appear to 
indicate that it accepted at face value that Mr T had a monthly disposable income of around 
£1,000.00, despite this being inconsistent with what showed on the credit searches and         
Mr Ts apparent need to borrow increasing amounts on such disadvantageous terms. 
Given the apparent mismatch between the disposable income figure arrived at and what    
Mr Ts credit file and borrowing history showed, I do think that there was a need for George 
Banco to carry out further enquiries into Mr Ts financial circumstances before it agreed to 
lend to him. In particular, I think that it needed to find out more about Mr Ts actual 
expenditure before it agreed to lend to him.  
Mr T has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr T has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks George Banco mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from George Banco showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on what this information says as an indication of what Mr Ts financial circumstances 
were more likely than not to have been at the respective times. 
At this point, I do think its important for me to set out that George Banco was required to 
establish whether Mr T could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
As this is the case, I do think that the information provided does show that Mr Ts existing 
financial position as well as his previous difficulties meant that he was always unlikely to be 
able to afford the payments to these guarantor loans, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. Indeed, he already appears to have been relying on friends and family to meet his 
commitments.
Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown George Banco that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr T. As George 
Banco provided Mr T with his guarantor loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr T ended up paying interest, fees and charges on guarantor loans he shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr T lost out because of what George Banco did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, George Banco should put things right for Mr T by:
refunding any interest, fees and charges that Mr T actually paid on his loans;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mr T to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information it may have recorded on Mr Ts credit file as a 
result of these loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman