DRN-4275500
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary I understand it to be as follows.
Mr B has said that on 29 November 2022 he received a call from somebody claiming to be 
from Santander, explaining that his account had been compromised. The caller told Mr B 
that they could see activity happening on his account and that he needed to transfer funds 
out of his account immediately.
Believing the caller to be legitimate, Mr B went ahead and followed their instructions in 
making the following three payments, totalling £7,200.01, to account details he was given;
29 November 2022 £2,900.01
29 November 2022 £2,500.00
29 November 2022 £1,800.00
But unknown to Mr B at the time he was speaking to a fraudster and had sent these 
payments to an account that the fraudster controlled.
Mr B realised hed been scammed when he didnt receive a call back from the fraudster, that 
he had been expecting, so he reported the matter to Santander. Santander is a signatory of 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, 
except in limited circumstances.
Santander issued its final decision and upheld Mr Bs complaint in part. In summary, it didnt 
consider it had met its standards under the CRM code  to detect and prevent the scam. But 
it added that it didnt think Mr B had done everything to protect himself and he didnt 
complete any checks to verify the call he had received was genuine. As a result it offered to 
refund 50% of the money that Mr B had lost.
Santander also contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payments were 
made), but unfortunately no funds remained.
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr B brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and agreed with the outcome that Santander had come to 
under the CRM code, that both Mr B and Santander should each be 50% liable. In summary 
she thought there was enough going on that should have concerned Mr B and led to him 
taking further steps before making the payments.
Mr B disagreed with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. Theres no dispute that Mr B 
authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint, even though he did so as a 
result of being deceived by fraudsters.
This being the case and broadly speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, he would normally be liable for the payments. But that 
isnt the end of the story. Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be 
appropriate for the bank to reimburse the customer, even though the payment has been 
properly authorised. Of particular relevance is the CRM Code which, as mentioned above, 
Santander has signed up to. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should 
reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr B.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment Mr B made falls within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement).
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored what the CRM Code refers 
to as an effective warning. Santander has already acknowledged it could have done more, 
it has acknowledged it didnt provide an effective warning. Thats why its refunded 50% of 
Mr Bs loss, accepting that it ought to have done more and recognising that means it bears 
some responsibility for Mr Bs loss.
But I have only found that Santander is partly liable for Mr Bs losses and it doesn't need to  
provide a full refund. Im persuaded Santander can rely on an exemption not to refund in full 
if Mr B didn't have a reasonable basis for believing the person he was dealing with was 
legitimate. I say that as I agree with our Investigator that there were factors about the scam 
which I think ought to have been red flags to Mr B;
- Mr B said the caller knew he held an account with Santander and about his previous 
employment. But I don't think this alone, was enough for Mr B to have reasonably 
believed he was speaking with his bank and to follow the instructions they gave 
thereafter. The caller doesnt appear to have carried out any security checks with    
Mr B, which you would typically expect if receiving a call from your bank.
- Im mindful Mr B was unable to identify the number that was calling him through his 
mobile device. But Mr B didnt do any checks to identify the caller and took what he 
was being told at face value.
- Mr B also would have received the notification that the account name he was paying 
didn't match and this ought to have been concerning. As I would reasonably have 
expected Mr B to have believed that he was paying an account in his own name or 
an account that was clearly associated with Santander. But Mr B was sending a 
payment to a different bank, with no explanation as to why.
- Alongside this, if Mr Bs money wasn't safe its not clear why he needed to make 
multiple transfers, rather than one single payment. Mr B also recalls being told to select paying a friend for the payment purpose, but doesnt appear to have been 
given an explanation for this.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr B from proceeding. But when considering the specific  
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was  
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr B ought reasonably to have taken further  
steps to protect himself. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable 
basis for believing he was making payments for a legitimate purpose. So this leads me to 
conclude that Mr B is also partly liable for his losses.
Ive considered whether Santander did all it could to try and recover the money Mr B lost, 
once he had reported the scam to it. Santander did contact the receiving bank when he 
raised the matter, but unfortunately the receiving bank told it that no funds remained. So I 
think Santander has done what could reasonably have been expected of it to try to recover 
the money.
Its very unfortunate Mr B has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Santander should refund Mr B 
any more of the money he sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman