DRN-2085145
The complaint
Miss B says MYJAR Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I sent MYJAR and Miss B my provisional findings on this complaint on 16 July 2020. 
I explained why I was planning to partly uphold Miss Bs complaint and I asked both parties 
to let me know if they had anything to add. Miss B accepted my provisional decision and 
MYJAR didnt respond. 
Below are the key parts of my provisional decision and a table summarising the lending.
Loan no. Amount Start date End date
1 £600 27/11/2018 08/03/2019
2 £600 30/03/2019 13/09/2019
3 £600 27/09/2019 n/a
Ill start by saying I dont think loans 1 and 2 were provided irresponsibly. The information
Miss B provided to MYJAR about her income and expenditure suggested that the monthly
repayments would be affordable and although the credit check MYJAR carried out for both
loans did suggest Miss B probably had other short-term loans outstanding, I dont think on
balance that information was so adverse that it was wrong for MYJAR to lend. I have noted
that MYJARs credit report includes estimates that Miss Bs debt-to-income ratio exceeded
40% and that shed slightly exceeded (101%) her revolving credit limits. The number of other
loans Miss B had opened in the three months before approaching MYJAR for loans 1 and 2
was also high. But despite these factors, I dont think MYJAR ought to have concluded
Miss B wasnt likely to be creditworthy.
However, by the time Miss B asked for loan 3, I think MYJAR ought to have concluded that
further lending wouldnt likely be sustainable. When Miss B applied for loan 3, MYJARs
credit report said shed opened 13 new accounts in the three months before the loan.
Miss Bs debt-to-income ratio had also increased  with the balance increasing on 12
accounts in the preceding three months. I think there were clear signs here there that Miss B
was in difficulty and so MYJAR ought to have taken a closer look at her outstanding loans.
MYJARs credit check doesnt suggest it actually looked closely at how much Miss B had to
repay each month towards her existing debts.
Had MYJAR looked more closely into Miss Bs existing debt, I think it wouldve seen Miss B
wasnt in a position to take on further loans in a way which was sustainable. For example, I
can see from Miss Bs own credit report and bank statements that in August 2019 she
borrowed at least £1,450 from four different short-term lenders  an amount roughly equal to
her declared income. Much of this it seems simply covered a shortfall created by repaying
other high-cost loans. Thats not a sustainable position. So had MYJAR carried out
proportionate checks for loan 3, I dont think it wouldve agreed it. Im therefore planning to
uphold the complaint about loan 3.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As Miss B accepted my provisional decision and as MYJAR didnt respond, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. So my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons and Im upholding the complaint in part.
Putting things right
MYJAR must remove all interest and charges applied to loan 3 from the outset and treat all 
payments as if they were paid towards the principal. If this leaves Miss B in credit,
MYJAR should refund the amounts Miss B paid above £600, adding 8% simple interest from
when the overpayments arose until the date of settlement*. 
If instead this still leaves an amount to be repaid, I hope MYJAR and Miss B will be able to 
agree a fair repayment plan.
MYJAR should also remove any adverse information it has reported about loan 3 from
Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give Miss B
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Bs complaint in 
part. MYJAR Limited must put things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman