DRN-3117531
The complaint
The estate of Mr M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
unfairly turned down a claim on Mr Ms business interruption insurance after his business 
was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
Mr Ms father, who Ill refer to as Mr M2, has brought the complaint to our service on behalf 
of Mr Ms estate. 
What happened
Mr M held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. He claimed on his policy after 
his business was impacted in March 2020 by the Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
RSA turned down Mr Ms claim as they thought his business had been forced to close by the 
Governments response to the pandemic, rather than because someone at the business 
premises had Covid-19, which was required for cover under the terms of the policy.  
 
Mr M sadly died of Covid-19 in September 2020. When RSA still refused to pay his claim,  
Mr M2 brought a complaint to our service. He felt it was unreasonable for RSA to say there 
wasnt a case of Covid-19 at the business premises considering his son had died. Mr M2 
also said that the policy document hed been provided clearly stated that notifiable diseases 
are covered, and there wasnt a requirement for the disease to be present at the business 
premises.  
Our investigator didnt think Mr M2 had demonstrated that it was most likely someone at the 
business premises had Covid-19, so he didnt think the claim was covered. He found that the 
Policy Summary referred to cover for notifiable diseases but said this was part of the longer 
policy document which set out that the disease needed to be at the premises.  
 
Mr M2 disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ms death from Covid-19. Im also sorry about the effect of the 
pandemic and the Governments related actions on Mr Mrs business. However, as Im 
tasked with determining the fair and reasonable application of Mr Ms insurance policy, Im 
afraid I cant uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
 
The policy documents 
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. 
 
Mr M2 has provided a copy of the Policy Summary which includes a table which sets out the 
Standard Features and Benefits of the policy. Within the business interruption section of the 
table, the summary says that an extension for notifiable diseases is included. I think its clear 
that this is a summary of the policy and not the full policy wording. The longer policy 
document, which includes the full terms and conditions, sets out that the closure or 
restrictions affecting Mr Ms business need to be due to a notifiable disease at the business 
premises. I think its clear that when read together the wording in the summary points to this 
extension and isnt a separate area of cover.  
  
Its unclear when this summary was given to Mr M. The document includes an amendment 
to Mr Ms policy which specifically excludes Covid-19. This indicates to me that this wasnt 
part of the original policy document and may have been provided at a renewal after Covid-19 
became known. However, I dont think that matters to the outcome of my decision as I dont 
think that notifiable diseases being listed in the Policy Summary means that I can fairly 
require RSA to cover loss by notifiable diseases in all circumstances. Therefore, I think its 
reasonable for RSA to apply the wording of the extension within the policy document rather 
than the summary.   
 
I understand Mr M2 doesnt think Mr M was ever given a copy of the full policy documents 
and therefore could only have relied on the information in the summary. As the policy was 
sold by a broker, its the brokers responsibility to provide Mr M with copies of the 
documents. If Mr M2 is unhappy about the sale of the policy, or with the documents that 
were provided, he would need to raise this as a separate complaint against the broker.  
 
Notifiable disease at the premises   
 
As I think its reasonable for RSA to apply the extension in the policy document, Ive gone on 
to consider whether they have done so fairly and reasonably.   
 
The relevant part of the extension for diseases covers loss resulting from: 
 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises 
  
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Mr Ms claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting at the premises.  
 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
 
Im very sorry to hear that Mr M died of Covid-19 in September 2020 after contracting the 
disease a few weeks earlier. However, in this decision I am only commenting on RSAs 
decision to turn down Mr Ms claim that commenced in March 2020. That means I can only consider whether there was a case of Covid-19 at Mr Ms premises before the business 
closed in March 2020.  
Mr M2 hasnt indicated that anyone at the business premises had Covid-19 before they 
closed in March 2020. Therefore, I think its likely Mr Ms business closed as result of the 
Governments response to the pandemic, rather than because someone at their premises 
had Covid-19. As such, Im afraid the policy doesnt provide cover for this claim.
  
I recognise that this isnt the outcome Mr M2 was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay this claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman