DRN-3204438
The complaint
Mr P complains that TransUnion International UK Limited (TransUnion) keep removing his 
electoral roll information from his credit report.
  
What happened
Mr P has had ongoing issues with his electoral roll information not showing on his credit 
report. In September 2018, Mr P complained about this issue, TransUnion upheld Mr Ps 
complaint and awarded £50 in compensation. TransUnion also confirmed that Mr Ps 
information was updated and he was back on the electoral register.
In February 2020, Mr P noticed his electoral roll information was yet again missing from his 
credit report and complained about the issue.
In March 2020, TransUnion issued a further response to Mr P. It explained that the 
information regarding Mr Ps whole name provided by his local council wasnt the same as 
the name he supplied. It further added that this was the reason why Mr Ps electoral roll 
information wasnt showing. Regardless of this, TransUnion explained it had updated Mr 
Ps information and his name and registration dates were showing as it should for the 
electoral information.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service in April 2020, and explained that although the 
issue had been resolved, given the amount of times this had happened, he didnt believe 
the underlying problem had been rectified.
In March 2021, Mr P got in touch and explained his electoral roll information was again 
missing from his credit report. Mr P provided supporting screenshots at this point and said 
he wanted to pursue the complaint as the underlying issue didnt appear to be resolved. Mr 
P notified our service on 2 October 2021 that his electoral information had been removed 
from his credit file a further two times. He had been advised by TransUnion that he should 
get in touch with his local council to rectify this.
Additionally, Mr P says he experienced other issues such as not being able to access his
credit report at times, for reasons unknown. However, when he used his full name to access
the report, the electoral roll information was correct.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns, specifically at the issues which arose in
March 2020 and March 2021 and issued multiple views to explain his position. Ultimately,
within our Investigators latest view he concluded he didnt feel that TransUnion was
responsible for Mr Ps electoral roll information missing from his credit file in March 2020 as
the council didnt send Mr Ps whole name formatted in the correct order. He stated the
councils formatting meant it wasnt clear what name was his forename and what was his
surname.
The Investigator did, however, state the council had already sent TransUnion Mr Ps full
name by March 2021 and formatted in the correct order. So, on this basis his electoral roll
information should have appeared. In this instance, the Investigator didnt feel Mr P had
been materially inconvenienced and so didnt award compensation. Mr P had accepted this
outcome, however, TransUnion stated it had not acted in error so requested for a decision.
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision setting out the below: 
In support of its response in March 2020, TransUnion have sent us evidence it says it 
received from the council which shows the information reported regarding Mr Ps name. In 
the records dated July 2019 to December 2019 Mr Ps middle name appears to be 
missing. TransUnion had explained that the councils records didnt match the name Mr P 
provided and this was the reason why Mr Ps electoral roll information was missing.
The council has provided us with evidence of its own records to demonstrate how they had 
recorded Mr Ps name on their system. It appears from December 2019, Mr Ps name was 
reported, but not in the correct order. Having thought about this, on balance, its likely this 
may have caused issues with TransUnions systems. And its likely this may have been the 
reason why Mr Ps electoral roll information wasnt showing on his credit report at this 
time.
However, from 1 December 2020, I can see from the records provided by the council that 
Mr Ps name was reported correctly and in the correct order. The council confirmed this 
information wouldve been sent to TransUnion on 12 January 2021. So, Im not persuaded 
by TransUnions explanation that Mr P not being on the electoral roll from this point 
onwards, was due to his council supplying incorrect information.
In any event, even if I accept that the council provided TransUnion with Mr Ps name 
incorrectly as it suggests, Im not persuaded TransUnion havent done anything wrong here.
I say this because TransUnion told Mr P in their letter of 27 March 2020 that they had 
corrected his name. So, its unclear why Mr P found himself as not being registered on the 
electoral roll after. And it wasnt unreasonable for Mr P to think that the matter had been 
fixed following what TransUnion told him.
As explained, the council records show that Mr Ps name was recorded correctly and in the 
correct format in December 2020, and this wouldve been provided to TransUnion in 
January 2021. Its not clear why Mr P continued to encounter issues beyond this point and 
TransUnion havent offered an explanation regarding this. Mr P says he had to keep 
checking his credit file to see if his electoral roll information appeared and also spent some 
time contacting the council to make sure their data was correct. I understand this has 
caused him undue stress and worry as he was concerned of the impact this would have on 
him.
In April 2021, Mr P sent us a screenshot to show another main credit reference agency 
has reported his name and electoral information correctly. From what I know, this credit 
reference agency uses the same data source for electoral roll information  in Mr Ps case, 
his council. Id expect an error by the council in the way it reports a name to be reflected 
across all the credit reference agencies as it doesnt supply separate details to each one. 
So, this is a further reason why, on balance, Im not persuaded this issue is related to the 
information provided by Mr Ps council.
I note Mr P says he feels there is a lack of diversity and flexibility in TransUnions systems 
 he stated that the system didnt accommodate any names like his own. Im sorry to hear 
Mr P felt this way and I understand why the continual errors have caused such frustration. 
However, from looking at things, I think its more likely that the system can recognise his name, but unfortunately there have been errors made in showing Mr Ps electoral roll 
information. So, I can understand why Mr P feels so strongly about whats happened.
On 4 November 2021, Mr P got in touch with us to let us know that he had changed his 
name via deed poll the week before. He says he notified the council and electoral services 
of this. Mr P explained that the electoral services advisor confirmed the changes would be 
reflected on 1 December 2021 onwards. I do sincerely hope that the matter is resolved 
given the ongoing issues Mr P has faced. If Mr P remains unhappy with things despite his 
name change, he can raise a new complaint for this to be looked into.
I have no doubt this matter caused Mr P inconvenience as hes spent a lot of time reviewing 
his electoral information and contacting various parties to have it corrected for a prolonged 
period. I also understand the amount of frustration this wouldve caused especially as he 
wasnt able to log in a on to the amount of £100 should be paid to reflect this.
Responses to my provisional decision
TransUnion didnt reply to confirm whether they accepted or rejected my provisional 
decision. 
Mr P responded and said he did agree with the provisional decision but provided further 
points for consideration. Ive summarised below what I consider to be the most relevant 
elements of his response: 
- TransUnions actions have forced him to change his name by deed poll. 
- As a result of changing his name, a considerable amount of time and money has 
been involved in changing it with over 30 businesses and organisations. 
- Mr P had this issue with another credit reference agency just once and they dealt 
with it promptly and with courtesy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr P has told us that he has taken steps to change his name via deed poll and I 
can understand his frustrations. However, I dont think I can fairly hold TransUnion 
responsible for this or the follow up inconvenience it has caused. I say this because the 
decision to change his name is something Mr P decided to do himself and wasnt something 
that was recommended by TransUnion. 
As explained in my provisional decision, Mr P was entitled to think the matter had been 
resolved in March 2020, so I dont think it was fair that he had to continue spending time 
checking his credit file and contacting various parties to confirm his name. I further added 
that Mr P didnt appear to be having this issue with another credit reference agency as per 
the screenshot sent to us in April 2021.  
For the same reasons explained here and in my provisional decision, Im still of the opinion 
that an award of £100 is a fair amount of compensation to pay.  
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require TransUnion International 
UK Limited to pay Mr P £100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman