DRN-3245505
The complaint
Mr Z complains about how he was treated by TSB Bank plc staff when trying to withdraw
£1,500 cash in one of its branches.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr Z visited a TSB branch to withdraw £1,500 cash. TSB says that in order
to help Mr Z, the branch manager was, on this occasion, willing to agree to this without
additional ID from Mr Z. But the branch manager says he made Mr Z aware he may be
asked for further ID for future transactions to comply with security requirements. The branch
manager says Mr Z became abusive to him and his staff at this point. So, Mr Z was refused
service.
Mr Z complained to TSB. He said that a previous agreement had been made with that
branch that he would only be required to provide a PIN to withdraw cash. He said this was
because he was disabled and didnt have a good memory.
The complaint was reviewed by TSB but not upheld. It said the branch manager was right to
make Mr Z aware of the fact that further ID may be required in the future. And its staff were
within their rights to decline to serve Mr Zs when faced with abuse.
Mr Z referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and
thought TSB shouldve done more to help Mr Z. She recommended it consider using Mr Zs
Freedom Travel Pass as ID (as Mr Z had requested) and pay £50 compensation.
TSB didnt accept this. It said Mr Zs behaviour in branch had been unacceptable and it was
within its rights to decline service to him. It explained that it wasnt unreasonable to ask for
ID in situations such as this. And that if Mr Z was worried about losing his ID why was he not
worried about losing the large cash withdrawals.
Mr Z didnt agree either. He said, following a previous complaint he made, that there had
been an agreement with a member of staff in that branch which meant he didnt need to
provide ID. And this problem occurred after that member of staff left. He thought branch staff
had behaved in an unacceptable way and shouldnt have refused him service.
As neither party agreed with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to review. I 
didnt agree with the opinion our investigator came to. I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld, so I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2021. In this decision, I said:
It doesnt seem disputed that TSBs manager was going to authorise the withdrawal for
Mr Z. But it was when the branch manager told Mr Z he may be asked for ID in the future
that Mr Z got upset. It was following this that Mr Z was denied service and told to leave.
There is differing testimony about what happened in the branch, and I obviously wasnt
present so dont know for certain. When there is conflicting information and testimony, I have
to decide, on the balance of probability, what I think is most likely to have occurred.
Firstly, I accept that Mr Z may well have been upset by what he was told by the TSB staff
and it may not have been his intention to upset them. However, having read the statements
from a member of staff, and having reviewed the contact notes made by staff that day, I think
it likely that Mr Zs frustrations meant his behaviour went beyond what is acceptable to TSB
and its staff. And TSBs staff are entitled to work in conditions without facing abuse from
customers. So, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to decline Mr Z service in this situation.
TSB is required to make adjustments for consumers who may have differing needs because
of a disability. Ive seen evidence that TSB offered Mr Z the chance to provide further details
of his disability, but he declined. And I cant see that hes given our service any details about
this either. If Mr Z does want to explain more to us about his disability in response to this
decision, I will consider this, and this may include any medical evidence he can provide.
That said, TSB also has a duty to protect its money, and its customers money, and it has to 
have processes in place to do this. And confirming a customers identity when they wish to 
make a significant withdrawal of cash is a reasonable requirement in the circumstances. 
Whilst Mr Z may have previously had an arrangement with a member of staff who he was 
familiar with, Ive seen no evidence this was a formal agreement, or that he was told he 
would never be asked for ID going forward.
It's clear Mr Z is known to the staff in this branch. And, in fact, Mr Z wasnt asked for ID in
the situation being complained about - he was told he may need it in the future. So, I dont
think this was an inconvenience to Mr Z at the time of this transaction. The branch manager
wasnt telling him he would always need to carry ID. But instead was making Mr Z aware that
he may be asked for further ID in the future. And I think its acceptable and understandable
that TSB may want to record that further checks have taken place if and when Mr Z makes
significant withdrawals.
Having reviewed the list of acceptable documentation, it seems that Mr Z could provide a
passport. Hes explained why, for various reasons, he cant provide anything else on the list.
Mr Z has explained why he doesnt like to carry ID such as a passport. Hes worried he may
forget it because of his disability.
Mr Z has asked whether his travel pass could be taken as ID as he usually has this with him
as he uses public transport regularly. But TSB has said this isnt an acceptable form of ID.
And in my experience, a travel pass wont be accepted as a form of ID by many, if any,
financial businesses. Im satisfied this is a decision TSB is entitled to make.
TSB suggested he could use a disabled parking badge. Mr Z has said that if someone drives
him to the branch, he would need to leave this in the car. However, if Mr Z is driven to the
branch, it would seem to me that he would have someone to help him with things and
someone that could make sure he remembers his passport. And those times when he
travels by public transport, it seems to me Mr Z could carry and use his disabled parking
permit, instead of his passport, as it wont be needed for parking.
Mr Z says he sometimes doesnt plan to go to a branch so would need to always carry ID
with him. Ive thought about this. But I dont think that Mr Zs objections to this are
reasonable. It seems to me that Mr Z wants to use his freedom pass or nothing. Whilst Id
expect TSB to help Mr Z, I think Mr Z needs to compromise too in this regard. Ive made
suggestions above which I consider are reasonable in the circumstances. Although I will
consider Mr Zs objections to them if he has any. But this does mean that Mr Z would in the
future need to plan when he wanted to take out significant amounts of money. Or carry a
form of ID with him at all times if not.
As Ive said, whilst I would expect TSB to make adjustments to take into account Mr Zs
disability, it does still have a duty to protect Mr Zs account. TSB has suggested Mr Z coulduse telephone or internet banking, both of which may be more secure for Mr Z. If Mr Z
prefers to use cash, that is his choice. But it may mean carrying ID more regularly as set out
above.
Id expect TSB to continue to work with Mr Z to see if an arrangement can be made, and Id
welcome any suggestions TSB may have in response to this provisional decision of
alternative forms of ID which may be acceptable. And I think TSB should record on its
systems that Mr Z has a problem with his memory and that its staff should always make sure
he leaves the branch with his passport if he uses it as ID. However, Mr Z may need to
consider whether another bank may suit his needs better.
Overall, I understand why Mr Z was upset about being refused service, but as Ive said, Im
satisfied TSB was entitled to take this action following his behaviour. And I understand why
he isnt happy about having to provide ID in the future, but I dont think this is an
unreasonable request in order to protect Mr Zs account security.
I invited both parties to provide any further submissions after which time, I said Id review 
everything again and look to issue a final decision. 
Mr Z responded to the provisional decision and disagreed. He said, in summary:
Id accepted TSBs account of what happened over his
That TSB refused him service after he tried to film its staff and he only did this 
because of problems he has with his memory
He provided further details of his disability and details of the medication he takes
That his freedom pass had been accepted as ID in the past and it depends who is 
working on the counter on an individual day
Mr Z also engaged a representative who holds full power of attorney and is an appointee for 
him. She also responded on behalf of Mr Z. She said, in summary:
She had driven Mr Z to the branch on that day and waited in the car. She reiterated 
Mr Zs account of what happened in the branch
TSB had previously not asked for ID or had accepted the freedom pass when they 
did ask for ID
She believed that there was tailored support in place for Mr Z following a previous 
complaint
She provided further details of Mr Zs health problems
Carrying a passport or other major identification is not feasible for Mr Z
She provided evidence of previous large withdrawals Mr Z had made
TSB responded saying that, as Mr Z had a registered power of attorney, it would make 
sense to register them with TSB so that she can make the withdrawals on behalf of Mr Z. It 
maintained that the representatives summary of what happened within the branch was 
inaccurate and didnt cover the level of abuse Mr Z had directed to its staff. TSB confirmed it 
didnt have a formal policy when it came to reasonable adjustments in situations such as 
this. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me to consider everything again and make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same opinion, and for the same reasons. But Ill 
elaborate on some of the points below having considered the further submissions from Mr Z, 
his representative and TSB.
As I explained in my provisional decision, when there is conflicting information and 
testimony, I have to make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have occurred 
given the evidence I do have.
Mr Z was clearly upset by his experience in the branch on this day. Ive thought again about 
what hes said happened. Ive also been provided with a statement by his representative 
confirming what hes said. However, she has also told us she stayed in the car, and 
therefore wasnt present in the meeting. So, it seems her summary is based on what Mr Z 
has told her, and us. This means, I cant place much weight on it.
Ive again considered the testimony from the member of staff involved, and looked at the 
system notes, which are the only evidence we have from the time of the incident. Based on 
this, I find myself coming to the same conclusions that I did in my provisional decision. That 
is that its likely that Mr Zs frustrations meant his behaviour went beyond what is acceptable 
to TSB and its staff. So, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to decline Mr Z service in this 
situation. And Im not going to ask it to pay compensation for this. Ive thought about what Mr 
Z has said about trying to film the staff because of his memory problems. However, I can 
also understand why staff may have felt intimidated when he tried to film them given that 
situations such as this often end up on the internet on social media  although Im not 
suggesting this was Mr Zs intention. I do recognise that Mr Zs health conditions do make 
situations like this particularly difficult for him, but that doesnt mean that staff are required to 
accept this behaviour.
TSB does have a duty to protect Mr Zs money. It has processes in place for this which may 
involve asking for identification. Ive seen no evidence Mr Z was told he would never be
asked for ID going forward. And I wouldnt expect TSB to agree to do so. A bank can ask for 
ID if required, and its generally for a bank to decide what it will and wont accept. 
I discussed in my provisional decision what I felt Mr Z could provide as identification and that 
there were fair options for him. And I was satisfied that TSB wasnt required to accept a 
freedom pass if it didnt feel this provided it with reasonable security. I remain of this opinion. 
And its not for me to tell a business what ID it should accept.
When I issued my provisional decision, I was not aware that Mr Z has a power of attorney 
who can act for him in situations such as this. I understand that Mr Z would sooner carry out 
these banking functions himself. However, its by his own admission that he doesnt want to 
carry his passport with him. I understand this is due to his health and memory problems. 
However, TSB has advised that Mr Z could register his power of attorney to the account so 
that she could make these withdrawals for or with him. This would give Mr Z another option if 
he isnt willing to carry his passport with him. So, I think there are sufficient options for Mr Z 
to be able to continue to make cash withdrawals. Whilst I understand they arent what Mr Z 
specifically wants, I think they are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As set out in my provisional decision, I still expect TSB to continue to work with Mr Z to see if 
any future arrangement can be made. And TSB should record on its systems that Mr Z has a 
problem with his memory and that its staff should always make sure he leaves the branch 
with his passport if he uses it as ID and is on his own. 
Overall, I understand why Mr Z was upset about being refused service, but as Ive said, Imsatisfied TSB was entitled to take this action following his behaviour. And I understand why
he isnt happy about having to provide ID in the future, but I dont think this is an
unreasonable request in order to protect Mr Zs account security.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman