DRN-4338736
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has declined a claim 
she made on her critical illness insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H applied for a critical illness policy in 2014. During the application process she was 
asked questions about her medical history. In 2022 Miss H was diagnosed with breast 
cancer and claimed on the policy.
The claim was declined because Legal and General said that Miss H hadnt answered the 
medical questions correctly when she applied for the policy. They said she hadnt disclosed 
a lump on her breast which had been investigated in 2012 and, if that had been disclosed, 
they would have applied an exclusion to the policy for breast cancer. They redrew the policy 
to reflect this.
Miss H complained but Legal and General maintained their decision to decline the claim and 
apply an exclusion was fair. They issued a number of final response letters. £350 
compensation was offered for delays and a lack of call backs in November 2022. A further 
final response was issued in December 2022 offering £300 for other errors and claims 
handling issues. Unhappy, Miss H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She thought Legal and General had acted 
fairly, bearing in mind the relevant legislation and that the compensation offered was fair.
She highlighted that any concerns about the sale of the policy would need to be addressed 
with the seller of the policy. Miss H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. She raised several additional points, but these didnt change the investigators 
thoughts about the outcome of the complaint.
I asked our investigator to clarify the amount of compensation which was offered. Legal and 
General confirmed it was offering a total of £650 compensation
In August 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
 reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances surrounding Miss Hs claim. Understandably, it 
is an upsetting and difficult time for Miss H and her family. And, I can understand and 
empathise with the disappointment and frustration they feel about the claim being 
declined when they were dealing with the impact of Miss Hs diagnosis and 
treatment.
At the outset I acknowledge Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties have, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are 
the key issues here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow 
me to do this as its an informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need 
to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
I also want to make it clear that my decision focuses on whether Legal and General 
have acted fairly. I cant comment, as part of this complaint, on the seller of the 
policy. Miss H has raised concerns about the way in which information was gathered 
and the documentation she had sight of during the sale. Those are issues which 
would need to be addressed with the business responsible for the sale of the policy.
The decision to decline the claim and add an exclusion
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General have a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably.
Legal and General say that Miss H didnt answer the questions in the application 
correctly. This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is also relevant and I think its fair and 
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of this case. Ive also taken 
into account the relevant Code of Practice issued by the Association of British 
Insurers.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not 
to misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care 
required is that of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when 
deciding whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific 
the questions asked by the insurer were.
In the application the questionnaire asked:
When answering the following questions if youre unsure whether to tell us 
about a medical condition please tell us anyway.
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application during the 
last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for a 
growth, lump, polyp or tumour of any kind?I think the question was adequately clear and specific. The answer recorded on the 
form is No. Legal and General say Miss H ought to have answered yes to that 
question because she ought to have disclosed her medical appointments relating to a 
breast lump. I think the answer to that question should have been yes because Miss 
H had been investigated for a breast lump within the time frame set out in the 
question.
Legal and General has provided evidence which shows that if Miss H had answered 
yes to that question theyd have applied an exclusion for breast cancer. This means 
Im satisfied Miss Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Legal and General has said Miss Hs misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate 
or reckless. I agree it was a careless misrepresentation because I dont think Miss H 
was trying to mislead or deceive Legal and General. I appreciate that shes said there 
were lots of questions, but she still needed to make sure the answers were correct 
and accurately reflected her medical history.
As Im satisfied the misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at 
the actions Legal and General can take in accordance with CIDRA. This says that 
they can add the exclusion to the policy from the point of misrepresentation and then 
assess any claim in line with this additional exclusion. Thats what Legal and General 
have done.
Ive taken into account Miss Hs representations about the Confirming Your Details 
form (CYD). The declaration says:
By signing and dating the form you declare that to the best of your knowledge 
and belief the information provided on your application and, where necessary, 
on this form is true and complete. You agree the answers provided form part 
of the legal relationship between you and us. Please sign even if the details 
are incorrect or if your policy has started.
Miss H says, in summary, there was an instruction to sign even if the details are 
incorrect or if your policy has started. The representations about the declaration 
havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of the complaint. The form also 
says:
If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out 
of date it may mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies 
cancelled. In the event of a claim we may request a report from your doctor to 
support your application answers. Please tell us straight away if you need to 
change any of your answers before your policy starts. Please read the 
personal details document carefully.
But there is also a question which asks, Have we got your details right?. Yes is 
selected.
And there are sections on the form which say:
Please make changes to any of your health details here
If you need to tell us about another medical condition please provide the 
following details.
Please make any changes to any other answers here.Miss H confirmed that her details were rights and signed the form. I think the 
instruction to sign if the details are incorrect or the policy has started needs to be 
read in the context of the other information on the form. I think the instruction to sign 
if the details werent correct applied where further information had to be provided.
In Miss Hs case this was an opportunity to select no and give more information 
about her health in 2012 that wasnt captured in the application form. I dont agree 
that the form encouraged her to sign when there was incorrect information in the way 
shes suggested. I think it was an opportunity to review the medical information, 
check it was right and complete the sections of the form, before signing it. The 
section shes highlighted was, I think, intended to address situations where the 
details werent correct, and more information had to be provided. As I outlined above 
if Miss H has concerns about the sale of the policy, theyll need to be addressed with 
the business responsible.
Taking all of this into account I think it is fair and reasonable for Legal and General to 
add the exclusion and decline the claim because it relates to breast cancer.
The redrawn policy and payments
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to redraw the policy. Theyve 
explained that their systems dont allow them to amend a policy. So, the existing 
policy had to be cancelled and a new one issued to reflect the updated terms. But, 
effectively it was the same policy, with the exclusion added. I think thats a 
reasonable explanation. Its not uncommon for insurers to have to take such action 
particularly where the policy has been in force for some time.
There has been no break in cover and this was a practical way to ensure Miss Hs 
policy reflected the outcome of the claim investigation. Im not persuaded Miss H has 
experienced any detriment as a result of Legal and General having to take this 
action. Ive not seen evidence to suggest that the terms of the policy are more 
financially advantageous to Legal and General. If Miss H believes that to be the case, 
shes entitled to ask Legal and General for an updated copy of her policy terms and 
complain to them if shes unhappy with any changes she identifies.
Miss H doesnt think it was right that Legal and General continued to take premiums 
following the changes Ive outlined above. I dont think that was unreasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular case, given the circumstances which led to the 
changes to the policy. And, in any event, theres no compelling evidence which 
confirms Miss Hs assertion that shes paying for a fundamentally different product to 
the one she took out, other than the presence of the exclusion due to the qualifying 
misrepresentation.
Refund of premiums
I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct Legal and General to refund the 
premiums.
Even if I accepted that Miss H was told shed receive a refund I dont think that leads 
to a fair outcome in the circumstances of this case. Thats because, as Ive outlined 
above, Legal and General have applied the appropriate remedy in line with CIDRA.
In any event, Miss H has also had the benefit of cover since the policy was taken out. 
Legal and General have carried the risk of her making a claim. That includes the risk 
of making a claim for lots of other conditions which would have been covered by the policy.
Unfortunately, shes unable to claim for this particular condition but shes still had the 
benefit of cover.
Customer service
In their final response letters Legal and General have acknowledged that there were 
issues with the customer service Miss H received. That includes delays, lack of call 
backs and other errors made.
Legal and General has offered a total of £650 compensation in two of their final 
response letters. I think that fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Legal and General has already made an offer to pay £650 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my provisional decision is that Legal and General should pay Miss H £650.
Miss H responded to my provisional decision. She said that she fundamentally disagreed 
with the interpretation of events but accepted the conclusions. In summary, she said the 
policy wasnt redrawn, it was cancelled. She didnt want a brand-new policy from Legal and 
General and told them they didnt have permission to take the money. Miss H doubted the 
legality of this. 
Miss H also highlighted that shed spent 15 months of precious time trying to achieve a fair 
outcome in this case and the devastating impact that Legal and Generals actions had on her 
family. She also raised concerns about whether Legal and General would make payment. 
Legal and General confirmed that they had no further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H accepted my findings but did make some further comments. So, Ive taken into 
account the further points shes made. 
I remain persuaded that the way in which Legal and General handled the redrawing of the 
policy was reasonable and that theyve provided a reasonable explanation for what 
happened when the policy was redrawn. As I explained in my provisional decision Legal and General explained that their systems 
dont allow them to amend a policy. So, the existing policy had to be cancelled and a new 
one issued to reflect the updated terms. But effectively it was the same policy, with the 
exclusion added. I can understand Miss Hs frustrations on this point, but I remain persuaded 
this was reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
When reaching a decision about the compensation to award I have taken into account 
everything that Miss H has said about the impact of dealing with this issue throughout her 
diagnosis and treatment. I dont doubt what shes told me about the devastating impact on 
both her and her family. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss H and her family after everything 
theyve been through over the last year and a half but I do think the £650 compensation is 
fair for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Miss H expressed concern that Legal and General wont pay the compensation. Legal and 
General are expected to make payment within 28 days of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
confirming that the decision is accepted by Miss H. If the final decision is accepted by Miss H 
and she doesnt receive payment she can get in touch with our investigator and, ultimately, 
can enforce the decision in court.   
Putting things right
Legal and General should pay Miss H £650 compensation.
My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has already made an offer to pay £650 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Miss H 
£650. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman