DRN-3397883
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) authorised a direct debit 
payment out of his account.
What happened
Mr A says a direct debit was set up on his account for his gas supplier. He says the direct 
debit was cancelled but the supplier was still able to take a payment for over £700. Mr A 
says he had told the gas supplier that he would pay it £100 a month but didnt receive a 
response to that offer and says NatWest told him the direct debit on its systems was shown 
as cancelled. He says NatWest should refund the full amount and says its £100 
compensation offer isnt sufficient. 
NatWest says there were two direct debits showing on its systems and accepts it may have 
told Mr A that the first had been cancelled. It accepts making a mistake and has offered 
£100 compensation and says it will raise a direct debit indemnity.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer and 
offer to raise an indemnity appropriate. The investigator also thought Mr A could ask his gas 
supplier if his payment offer was acceptable which would mean any indemnity claim would 
not be challenged.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and in summary says he was given misleading information by 
NatWest and its systems which ought to be corrected. He would like NatWest to modify its 
systems and says he would like compensation in the full amount he paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NatWest has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
I make clear to Mr A that we are not NatWests regulator and so its not our role to direct it to 
change its systems as Mr A suggests. I also cant fairly direct NatWest about the type of 
information it displays to its customers about direct debits. I appreciate that issue is 
important to Mr A.
The main issue for me to consider in this complaint is the level of compensation, as NatWest 
accepts it ought to have dealt with what should have been a straightforward issue more 
appropriately. I have no doubt Mr A was caused distress and inconvenience when he saw 
the full balance being taken from his account and would have spent some time trying to sort 
out the problem. But Im satisfied that NatWest has fairly apologised for what took place and 
made what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation offer.
I dont think Mr A suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place. I say that as 
regardless of if the direct debit was cancelled, Im satisfied that Mr A still owed his gas 
supplier just over £700. I have to consider the impact of the mistake and I dont think what 
took place justifies compensation of that amount or that the mistake had a significant impact. 
I find that NatWests compensation offer is in line with type and amount of awards we would 
make for this type of mistake and impact.
Im also satisfied that NatWest fairly offered to raise an indemnity. I appreciate Mr A says it 
likely the gas supplier would have rejected it, but I dont think there any guarantee it would 
have. I think on balance if the gas supplier had rejected the indemnity then it would have 
been unlikely to have accepted Mr As offer of £100 a month. And it follows that even if the 
direct debit had been cancelled then the supplier may have demanded the full payment in 
any event.
Overall, Im satisfied that the result of the mistake was that Mr As gas supply bill was paid in 
full. Regardless of the mistake Im satisfied he would still have owed that money and so he 
has not suffered a financial loss. The compensation should reflect the impact on Mr A and 
not the amount involved. I have made clear that I find the compensation offer appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £100. Mr As acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman