DRN-3267603
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C has explained he travels a lot and so he contacted Barclaycard in June 2021 
about the Rewards credit card as it suited his needs better. While Mr C wanted to 
have the Rewards credit card, it is a commercial decision for Barclaycard to take 
about the products it provides customers based on its application criteria.
When Mr C contacted Barclaycard in June 2021 he was initially told he could have a 
second account but when he applied for the Rewards card his application was 
rejected. While it isnt for me to say whether Mr C should have been accepted for the 
card, as this would depend on the outcome of Barclaycards processes and checks, 
in this case as Mr C already had an existing account he was always going to be 
declined. Therefore, I think the incorrect advice given to Mr C about being able to 
have two credit cards meant he was caused inconvenience and his credit file was 
affected by the application being declined. 
Mr C also complained that he was told his account could be transferred. Again, this is 
a process for Barclaycard to decide and as Mr Cs account wasnt able to be 
transferred at the time I cannot say he was treated unfairly, or Barclaycard did 
anything wrong by not allowing this to happen. However, this did cause him further 
upset and inconvenience.
Therefore, while I do not find that Barclaycard was required to issue Mr C a Rewards 
credit card due to the issues he had experienced, as this would need to be subject to 
the correct process, I think it was required to recognise the poor service and the 
impact on Mr Cs credit file. As Barclaycard has confirmed that it removed the record 
of the search from Mr Cs credit file and it credited Mr Cs account with £50 because 
of the poor service, I think this provides a reasonable resolution to this part of Mr Cs 
complaint. 
I note that Barclaycard also offered in its final response letter as a gesture of goodwill 
to stop to any interest charges until 26 July 2021 and refund foreign transaction fees 
incurred. I find this reasonable and while I note Mr Cs comments about not being 
aware of this offer until after he had returned from his trip, as this was a gesture of 
goodwill and I think the actions taken above in regard to the credit report and 
compensation for service were reasonable, I do not find that Barclaycard is required 
to do anything further in regard to this aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has said that it wasnt until October 2021 that he was made aware he could 
cancel his existing credit card and would the need to wait six months before applying 
for the Rewards credit card. I understand the comments he has made that had he 
known this sooner he would have acted sooner. However, I think the information 
included in the July 2021 letter made it clear that Mr C could only have one account 
at a time. I do not think Barclaycard was required at this time to suggest Mr C close 
and existing account as it wouldnt have been able to guarantee that a future account 
application would be successful. The information provided was accurate.
So, while I understand why Mr C is upset that he feels he has lost time in the process 
and as a result hasnt benefitted from not incurring overseas transaction fees when 
travelling, I do not find in this case Barclaycard has done anything wrong in the 
process of Mr Cs Rewards credit card application or treated him unfairly.
I do not think that the service has been what it should have but as this was 
addressed in the final response letter, I find this reasonable. I understand Mr C wants 
further compensation for not being told until October 2021 about cancelling his 
existing card but as I have nothing to suggest he asked about this and was given 
incorrect advice and the final response letter made it clear he could only have one 
account, I do not find I can say that Barclaycard has given any incorrect or 
misleading advice. Therefore, I do not find this is something that I require 
Barclaycard to provide further compensation for.
I know that my decision will be disappointing for Mr C but for the reasons set out above, I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman