DRN-1656674
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc didnt treat him fairly when he had difficulty maintaining 
mortgage payments.
Check FCA guidance
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with TSB in 2017. He had financial difficulties and the mortgage 
fell into arrears. TSB took recovery action.
Mr M says TSB didnt offer him support and made it hard to agree a payment arrangement. 
He says it refused to switch him to interest only payments and took him to court too soon. 
Mr M says TSB is acting fraudulently and is in a rush to take possession of the property 
because of his skin colour.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said TSB had 
agreed payment arrangements with Mr M, but continuing this would increase his arrears. As 
there was no prospect of Mr Ms circumstances improving TSB hadnt been unfair in starting 
recovery action.  
Mr M didnt agree. He said he sent evidence to TSB that his circumstances would improve, 
but it had already decided to proceed with taking possession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
What happened  in summary?
Mr M took out a mortgage with TSB in 2017. His account fell into arrears in mid-2018. Mr M 
contacted TSB about a payment arrangement. He made no payments in December 2018, 
January and February 2019. He made payments of £500 per month between March and 
June 2019. This was less than the amount of interest being applied each month.
In June 2019 TSB instructed solicitors to start action for possession. The court issued a 
suspended possession order in July 2019 requiring Mr M to pay £100 each month towards 
his arrears (of about £8,000) in addition to his contractual monthly payment.
Did TSB treat Mr M fairly when starting action for possession?
The rules of mortgage regulation say that lenders should treat customers in financial 
difficulty fairly and only take possession as a last resort, when other reasonable efforts to 
resolve the situation have failed. 
TSB asked Mr M for information about his circumstances. It needs to do this to assess what 
support it can offer. Mr M is self-employed. He said he had cash flow problems and expected 
the situation to improve. Mr M is frustrated that each time TSB renewed payment 
arrangements it asked for the same information about his income and expenditure, even 
though his situation didnt change. I do appreciate this takes time. But I think its fair for TSB 
to review arrangements on an ongoing basis. Customers circumstances can change, 
especially when they are self-employed.
TSB agreed that Mr M could make no payments in December 2018 to February 2019. It 
didnt agree to extend this, and says it didnt agree a further reduced payment arrangement 
due to the arrears on the account. Mr M disputes TSBs account of what was agreed. He 
made payments of £500 per month in March to June 2019. There is further dispute about 
what was agreed in June 2019. Mr M says TSB agreed he could make payments when he 
received funds from a new contract he was working on. TSB says it didnt agree to this.
What is clear is that Mr M was in financial difficulties and unable to pay his contractual 
monthly payments, or even enough to cover the interest. Even if a payment arrangement 
was agreed, Id expect TSB to review this on an ongoing basis. The effect of making these 
reduced payments was that the amount Mr M owed increased.
In these circumstances, when Mr M couldnt pay enough to cover the interest being applied, 
I think it was reasonable for TSB to decline his request to switch to interest only payments. 
I dont think, in the circumstances, it was unreasonable or unfair for TSB to instruct solicitors 
to start action for possession. Mr M hadnt made a contractual monthly payment in full  or 
even enough to cover interest  for eight months. His debt was increasing as a result. While 
Mr M says he sent evidence his situation would improve, TSB says it didnt receive this.
TSB says it will hold further litigation while Mr M makes payments in accordance with a court 
order. 
Did TSB communicate fairly with Mr M?
Mr M says TSB has mis-recorded whats been agreed on numerous occasions. The 
evidence available to me doesnt support this. I think its more likely that Mr M 
misunderstood what TSB offered or agreed. But I can understand Mr Ms frustration if his 
understanding of what was agreed was different to TSBs. 
Mr M says he told TSB in June 2019 that hed be able to start paying his mortgage in full by 
the end of the month. He was upset to receive a letter from TSBs solicitors two days later 
about taking action for possession. TSB says this was in progress before the call. Given the 
timing, I think this was likely the case. And TSB says it didnt agree to hold action until Mr M 
received funds from a new contract. 
Based on the available evidence, I think TSB instructed its solicitors to take action for 
possession because it was concerned about the increasing level of arrears on Mr Ms 
account. I havent seen anything to suggest it did this for fraudulent or discriminatory 
reasons.
What happens now?TSB says it will hold further action so long as Mr M maintains payments in accordance with 
the court order. I asked the parties for an update, in case thered been any changes to 
Mr Ms situation or the mortgage account that I ought to know about. I didnt receive a 
response from TSB, and Mr M said he had nothing to add. I hope Mr M has been able to 
maintain payments, and get his mortgage account back on track. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator (the 
Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) issued guidelines to lenders. Its recently proposed 
further guidance that no-one should have their home repossessed without their agreement 
until after 31 January 2021. Id expect TSB to take the regulators guidance into account 
when dealing with Mr M, and to bear in mind its obligation to treat Mr M fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman