DRN-2425059
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard incorrectly removed a 
promotional interest rate from his credit card account.
What happened
Mr J says he took out a 25-month 0% offer on his credit card account in December 2017. He 
says he noticed in November 2019 he had been charged interest since July 2018 and spoke 
to Barclaycard about this. Mr J says he was told this was due to a late payment in July 2018 
and that his promotional offer had been withdrawn. He says that is a mistake and the terms 
and conditions make no reference to a late payment resulting in such action and he was 
charged a late payment fee. Mr J says in summary Barclaycard has breached the terms and 
conditions and has acted unlawfully. He also says Barclaycard offered to refund 50% of the 
interest but didnt do so and didnt tell him the promotional offer was withdrawn.
Barclaycard says Mr J missed the July 2018 payment and so it acted in line with account 
terms and conditions in those circumstances by withdrawing the promotional 0% offer. It 
accepts it didnt refund the interest as it should and has apologised for that and has now 
refunded it as well as paying £50 compensation. Barclaycard says it told Mr J in the account 
statement it was withdrawing the offer and every statement contained the interest rate after 
the offer was withdrawn.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr J had missed the payment date and Barclaycard was entitled to 
withdraw the offer in line with the terms and conditions. The investigator thought Barclaycard 
was entitled to class a payment as missed in these circumstances and had told Mr J the 
offer was withdrawn in the account statements. The investigator also thought Barclaycard 
had acted fairly by refunding half of the interest and paying compensation and thought it was 
entitled to deduct that from the balance Mr J owed.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and in summary says the account terms and conditions do not 
allow Barclaycard to withdraw the offer or charge him interest. He says the relevant section 
of the terms and conditions makes no reference to a due date and no other sections are 
relevant. He also disputes missing a payment and says it was late and would like the interest 
refunded to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by my decision 
and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what has taken place.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions Mr J has given us and the 
account statements. There is no dispute here that Mr J had 0% promotional balance transfer 
offer and I can see that he was required to make a payment by 3 July 2018, but he did not 
make that payment by that date.
The terms and conditions make clear that a minimum payment must be made by the due 
date shown on the account statement. I think that is a general condition that applies 
regardless of any promotional offers and is a clear requirement of the account agreement. I 
have also looked carefully at section 5 of the terms and conditions which deals with changes 
to promotional interest rates.
 Im satisfied it is made clear that any promotional interest rate may be lost if an account 
holder doesnt keep to the terms of the agreement. So, Im also satisfied that Mr J didnt 
keep to the terms of the agreement as he didnt make a required payment by the due date of 
3 July 2018 and in those circumstances, I find Barclaycard was entitled in line with the 
agreed account terms and conditions to withdraw the promotional interest rate as Mr J didnt 
keep to the terms and conditions of the agreement.
I can see that section 5 of the terms and conditions goes on to say a promotional interest 
rate will be lost if there is a missed monthly payment. I have made clear that I am satisfied 
that the agreement was broken by the fact the payment due date as described earlier in the 
terms and conditions was missed and I dont think section 5 is the only part of those terms 
and conditions I should consider but all the terms and conditions in the agreement. In any 
event Im satisfied that the payment was due on 3 July 2018 and that date was missed and I 
dont think it matters that Mr J made the payment some days later.
So, Im satisfied that in line with section 5 of the terms and conditions Barclaycard was 
entitled to conclude this was a missed payment. And I dont accept Mr Js distinction 
between a late and missed payment being relevant as Im satisfied that the account 
statement made clear a payment was due by 3 July 2018 -the due date and a payment was 
not made by this date and so the terms and conditions had been breached.
It follows that as I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake by concluding the agreement had 
been broken, that it was entitled in line with the account terms and conditions to withdraw the 
promotional offer and charge Mr J interest. I find Barclaycard told Mr J that in the account 
statement which I think was in line with the terms and conditions. I appreciate Mr J was 
unaware of that but that is not something I can fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for and I 
would have expected Mr J to have monitored his account statements and managed his 
account.
There is no dispute here that Barclaycard said it would refund half of the interest as a 
gesture of goodwill but didnt do so. Im satisfied its apologised for that and paid what I think 
is a fair and reasonable level of £50 compensation. I also think its acted fairly by refunding 
the interest in circumstances where I dont think it was obliged to have done so or where it 
had made a mistake by charging it in the first place. Im satisfied Barclaycard was 
reasonably entitled to deduct the interest refund from the balance owed by Mr J.
I dont think it matters what Mr J may have been told by Barclaycard when he called it as Im 
satisfied that the key issue is what is contained in the account terms and conditions agreed 
in 2017.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted fairly and in line with agreed terms and 
conditions and hasnt made a mistake. Im also satisfied that it is clear Mr J missed a 
payment due date and, in those circumstances, regardless of when Mr J made the payment 
Barclaycard was entitled to conclude he had breached the terms of the agreement. I think 
this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman