DRN-2436285
The complaint
Mr O has complained that DB Wood Limited delayed its pension transfer advice
unreasonably. He also believes hes made an incorrect decision to retain his scheme
benefits as a result.
What happened
Mr O was a member of his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) with close to 40 
years service. He began to discuss a potential transfer of his benefits with DB Wood in early 
2018. A cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was obtained at that time and he signed a 
client agreement in April 2018. The agreed fee for the advice was £2,000.
It seems that redundancy became a possibility in mid-2018 and the advice was put on hold. 
DB Wood has said that the scheme confirmed in October 2018 that Mr O would be able
to transfer out following redundancy, which was due to take place in March 2019. 
Mr O says that details of the severance package were provisionally confirmed in late 2018,
and that he discussed the possibility of routing the redundancy payment through his pension
using carry forward with DB Wood. He has said that he provided the estimated figures to
DB Wood.
DB Wood has said that it requested a new CETV on 14 February 2019, but that it could not 
be provided without paying a fee until March 2019. 
Details of the severance package were issued on 1 March 2019. Mr O was due to retire
on 31 March 2019, and he therefore had to decide on his pension by then. Mr O sent the 
details to DB Wood on 6 March 2019, by email. DB Wood has said that he also
provided a pension benefit statement and expenditure form, and that these were different to 
earlier versions.
The OPS administrator issued the new CETV on 15 March 2019. The figure was over 
£1,300,000. It appears the CETV was sent by second class post and so wasnt available 
when Mr O met with DB Wood on 18 March 2019.
DB Wood says that it received the CETV on 22 March 2019, although the copy provided to 
this service is stamped 25 March 2019. It emailed Mr O on Thursday 28 March 2019,
advising him against transferring. It said that his needs could be met by the scheme benefits.
It noted that his attitude to risk was cautious and that he had little investment experience. It 
said that the risks of transferring werent worth taking.
Mr O needed to make his decision by the next day, 29 March 2019, this was the last working 
day before his retirement on 31 March 2019. He opted to take scheme benefits and route 
some of his redundancy payment through his pension.
DB Wood produced a suitability report dated 3 April 2019. This reiterated the advice at 
greater length, with an analysis of Mr Os circumstances, needs and scheme
benefits. It said his attitude to risk was medium, but that he had low capacity for loss and
little need to take risk. 
Mr O had already made his decision by this time.
DB Wood invoiced Mr O for its £2,000 fee and after that he made a complaint. He said that it 
had previously agreed that transferring out of the OPS would be the right thing for him to do, 
and that it had provided contrary advice at the last minute. He felt that this had led to him 
making the wrong decision. He pointed out that the suitability report had been provided after 
hed had to decide what to do. He said the timing hadnt allowed him to make an informed 
decision, and that hed had no option but to take the scheme benefits.
 
Mr O also said that DB Wood had recommended he take out a five-year fixed rate mortgage 
on the assumption that he would transfer.
DB Wood didnt uphold the complaint and said that it had acted as quickly as possible, and 
that its fee was justified. It denied recommending the mortgage.
Mr O referred the complaint to this service. The complaint was considered by an investigator 
from this service. He upheld the complaint in part.
The investigator made the following conclusions, in summary:
MB Wood had agreed to provide advice.
A fee had been agreed.
Providing advice would include making a personal recommendation and allowing 
time for the client to make an informed decision.
A suitability report could be provided after the relevant transaction. It was the 
recommendation that was critical in this case.
DB Wood says that it provided an outline of its advice on 26 March 2019, but no 
evidence of this was provided.
It was likely that the recommendation was given on 28 March 2019.
Although this did allow Mr O time to make a decision, it had to be made that day.
The advice had been delayed in part by the latest CETV, but this could have been 
requested sooner if a fee had been paid. Mr O doesnt seem to have been given the 
option of paying the (small) fee. 
The personal recommendation could have included more information including a 
Transfer Value Comparator (TVC). This would have been helpful in this case and 
would have helped allow Mr O to make a more informed decision.
DB Wood did spend time on the advice and the advice was probably suitable.
The TVC was likely to have been in excess of the transfer value.
Mr Os current position is probably the position he should be in with suitable advice.
Mr O avoided issues with his lifetime allowance by retaining his defined benefits.
There was a dispute about the mortgage advice, but the rationale for taking it may 
have applied whether there was a transfer or not.
The investigator upheld the complaint in part. He recommended that DB Wood reduce its fee 
by £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by its failures.
DB Wood accepted that view, but Mr O didnt.Mr O didnt agree. He said there was no advice, just a decision that DB Wood wouldnt 
support a transfer when it was too late for him to make any informed decision. There was no 
support, no explanation, and no advice on options.
In relation to the mortgage, he said he was advised either by telephone or text, it wasnt in 
writing. He was able to provide an email from DB Wood which referred him to a mortgage 
broker.
The investigator didnt change his view. He said, in summary:
DB Wood did provide advice before Mr O had to make a decision.
The suitability report could be provided after the transaction.
Mr O acted on the advice.
He may have had more time to make a decision if DB Wood had given him the 
chance to pay for the new CETV, but the outcome would probably have been the 
same.
There is no loss due to not transferring.
There is insufficient evidence that DB Wood recommended the mortgage.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out the background and the views of the investigator in some detail above. Having 
considered all the evidence, Ive decided that I agree with his conclusions and with his 
reasoning. I dont think there is very much that I can add to what the investigator has already 
said.
I can understand why Mr O may feel frustrated with the advice process. It seems to have 
started in the spring of 2018 and ended with him having to make a decision on the very 
same day he received the recommendation, on 28 March 2019. And even then, the 
recommendation was not as extensive as it could have been. I can see why he feels that he 
wasnt allowed to make a fully informed choice.
However, when considering transfers out of defined benefit schemes like this, the industry 
regulator has provided clear guidance to advisers on the approach that should be taken. It 
says:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
Its therefore clear that the starting point is that transferring out will not be suitable for most 
people. And a transfer should only be recommended if there is clear evidence that it is in the 
best interests of the consumer. This is because of the valuable guarantees contained within 
the defined benefit scheme will be lost if the transfer goes ahead. 
Although DB Wood advised late, it did provide a recommendation supported with, what appear to be, legitimate factors against transferring. It did advise. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest its advice was unsuitable or wrong. I agree that it could have advised a little more 
quickly if the latest CETV had been requested sooner. And it does seem odd that a modest 
fee, £250 or so, was apparently allowed to delay matters given the value of the transfer at 
stake, over £1 million. I doubt Mr O wouldve refused to pay this amount if he had been 
asked.
However, I think that if DB Wood had advised sooner than it did, Mr O would probably have 
accepted that advice. I think he would have relied on it if he had more time and more 
information. So, I dont think he has lost out by not transferring.
Most complaints this service receives about transfers like this are from consumers whove 
transferred out of a defined benefit scheme, only to discover that they have lost out as a 
result, often substantially.
And in this case, there is an additional factor in this case which is against transferring, thats 
the potential impact on Mr Os lifetime allowance, which has added protection with defined 
benefits as the investigator explained.
Mr O has referred to concerns about his life expectancy, but I cant see that these are 
backed up by any actual medical evidence. I dont think this factor alone wouldve changed 
the advice and certainly not without some more firm evidence.
The timing of the advice will have caused frustration and could have been avoided, at least 
to some extent. I agree that there should be some award to reflect this trouble and upset, but 
I think that £300 is fair.
On the mortgage, there is no clear documentary evidence that DB Wood recommended or 
advised on a mortgage in a formal sense. In fact, the email Mr O has provided is DB Wood 
referring him to a mortgage broker.
Overall, I agree with the investigator. I uphold this complaint, but Im not satisfied that Mr O 
suffered any direct loss as a result of any failure by DB Wood. Its advice may have been 
late, but Im not satisfied that it was unsuitable. Mr O had time to make a reasonably 
informed choice. I think he would have made the same decision with more time. I think DB 
Wood is entitled to be paid the agreed fee, but its fair if this is reduced by £300 to reflect the 
distress caused.
Putting things right
DB Wood should reduce its fee by £300.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about DB Wood Limited. It should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman