DRN-4151839
The complaint
A has complained about the way National Westminster Bank Plc managed the process to 
update their business profile that ultimately led to their business account being closed. 
The complaint has been made by Mr G on behalf of A, so I will mostly be referring to Mr G in 
this decision.
What happened
Nat West first contacted A in March 2020 asking for the business profile to be updated. The 
need for this to be completed was relaxed at that time due to the pandemic. But by October 
2020 Nat West had sent out a reminder for it to be completed. Further reminders were then 
sent out each month until May 2021 and then a hold was placed on the account on 1 June 
2021. Mr G complained that he hadnt been sent the necessary forms to complete. Nat West 
upheld his complaint. It removed the restrictions from the account and paid him £500 
compensation.
The subject of this complaint is what occurred after that.
Mr G uploaded the necessary forms  a declaration of beneficial ownership (DOBO) and a 
structure chart  to the online portal on 18 July 2021. 
Between August 2021 and May 2022 Mr G received regular reminder letters that information 
was still outstanding. He was in contact with the complaints team about this as he believed 
that he had completed the forms correctly.
The account was put on hold in May 2022 and Mr G was advised in July 2022 that the 
account would be closed. Between 23 May 2022 and 14 December 2022 (when Mr G 
received a cheque for the account balance) Mr G had no access to the funds in the account.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Whilst he thought it was reasonable that the account 
had been closed, he thought that Nat West hadnt communicated well with Mr G and that it 
had taken too long to return his money. He therefore recommended that Nat West should 
pay £400 compensation for reputational damage, £239.69 for financial loss and refund bank 
charges of £61.05.
Nat West agreed to refund the bank charges as a gesture of goodwill. But overall, both Nat 
West and Mr G disagree with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The forms were not being accepted by Nat West because Mr G had signed them himself as 
the director of the company. Whilst that would be acceptable in the vast majority of cases, 
because there was a trust (Mr Gs pension scheme) involved in the company set up, it was a 
requirement that they be signed by a lawyer or an accountant.
As mentioned above, Nat West first started to contact Mr G in March 2020 to update As 
business profile and he was sent reminder letters between October 2020 and May 2021. 
From what Ive seen, some of these letters were longer versions that contained a return slip 
and more detailed information about what was required in terms of certifying documents. 
They mention that, where the company structure includes a nominated shareholder, the 
certification can only be provided by a regulated solicitor or accountant.
But Mr G hadnt received copies of the forms to fill in at that point. When he was sent the 
documents on 5 July 2021, they were templated forms. The related guidance notes say that 
the forms can be signed by a company director/lawyer/accountant. So its unsurprising that 
Mr G simply followed the instructions and signed the forms himself, rather than referring 
back to any previous correspondence he had been sent. Additionally, he didnt think that his 
pension trust constituted a nominated shareholder anyway.
Ive listened to a call from 21 July 2021 when Mr G rang Nat West to find out why the forms 
had been rejected. The adviser reads the notes and says that the forms themselves were 
fine but that, because they mention nominee shareholdings, they need to be signed by a 
lawyer or accountant.
Mr G challenges this and says that the template doesnt say that, but it does say that he can 
sign it as a company director. The adviser agrees with that and says that would normally be 
fine, but even though its an issue he hasnt personally come across before, the reason given 
is because theres a nominee shareholding. So, even though Mr G disagreed with it, at this 
point he was made aware that the reason his forms were being rejected was because they 
hadnt been signed by a lawyer or accountant.
The adviser says he will refer the matter higher up for review and will unblock the account in 
the meantime. Mr G is told to keep checking online to see if the documents get accepted at 
some point. He contacted the complaints team shortly afterwards and was told that the 
information provided was under review and that they will let him know if anything further is 
required.
From August 2021 to May 2022 Mr G received monthly reminder letters about completing 
the business profile process. These letters gave a contact phone number for the review team 
and asked him to get in touch if he needed help. Mr Gs reason for not responding to any of 
these letters directly was because he contacted the complaints team again in October 2021, 
saying he was under the impression the matter had been dealt with. He received a reply 
saying that:  the review team has advised that due to their being a presence of Trust in 
the structure they are awaiting on further guidance in a way forward to complete the review. 
and If there is anything further required, the review team will call you.
Therefore, I appreciate that in October 2022 Mr G thought that the matter was still being 
considered and that he had an expectation of being contacted by phone. He knew what the 
issue was, but from his point of view, the review was to decide if the forms signed by him 
were acceptable after all. However, upon continuing to receive chaser letters, Mr G should 
perhaps have known that something wasnt right. 
The final reminder letter dated 23 May 2022 says that restrictions will be applied and the 
account was frozen the same day.I consider that Mr G could probably have acted earlier and made direct contact with the 
review team between November 2021 and May 2022. Having said that, the situation is 
largely the result of issues with Nat Wests communication.
Nat Wests letters were generic reminder letters and did not mention the specific information 
that was still required. Similarly, the online portal just says that the documents have been 
declined without giving a reason. I appreciate that these processes are automated and so 
not necessarily tailored to individual customers. But this didnt help Mr G to understand what 
he was being asked for.
Anyone looking at the templated documents and the associated guidance would be 
reasonably confident that a company director was an authorised signatory of the DOBO and 
the structure chart. The instructions dont signpost the applicant to any exceptions relating to 
this. Whilst the relevant details do appear elsewhere, such as in the online FAQs section, Mr 
G would only have been prompted to look there if hed been unsure about how to complete 
parts of the form.
Nat West mentioned a nominee shareholder but didnt expand on who or what that was. Mr 
G says at one point it was explained to him that there was someone with a significant 
influence on the business that it needed more information on but he wasnt told what that 
meant. Mr G says his accountant has confirmed that there is no nominee shareholder. Nat 
West could have made it clear that it was talking about the pension trust.
There was no co-ordination between the complaints team and the business profile review 
team. Whilst the complaints team thought the review team had undertaken to call Mr G if 
more information was needed, no contact was made with him beyond the generic reminder 
letters. And Mr G was told by the complaints team that the information he had provided was 
still under review and that it would monitor that review.
Therefore, whilst I consider it reasonable that Nat West required these documents to be 
signed by a lawyer or an accountant, it provided unclear and contradictory information and 
failed to adequately manage the process.
Although Mr G did subsequently provide the documents signed by his accountant, it was 
after the exit process had been initiated to close the account. As Nat West uses a third 
party to implement account closures, the decision cant be overturned after a certain point 
unless there are exceptional circumstances. Nat West maintained its decision to close the 
account on the basis of Mr Gs non-engagement from October 2021 to May 2022. 
On balance, I agree with our investigator that it was reasonable for Nat West to close the 
account, in accordance with its standard procedures. Nat West agrees that there was some 
delay which meant that Mr G didnt have access to his funds as quickly as he should have.
The account went on hold in May 2022. Mr G was told by the complaints team in July 2022 
that a decision had been made to close the account but he wasnt given any details of what 
that entailed. A closure letter was sent at the end of August 2022 which, to some extent, 
seems to have been prompted by contact from this service.
There was a lot of uncertainty during this period with Mr G not knowing what the timescales 
for closing the account were and therefore when he would be in a position to open a new 
account.
A suffered some reputational damage as a result of not being able to pay certain bills on 
time. Ive thought very carefully about what both Nat West and Mr G have said about the level of compensation that should be applied in relation to this. On balance, I agree with our 
investigator that £400 is a reasonable and proportionate amount.
There were also some financial consequences to A not having access to the account. Mr T 
has provided evidence that he was charged late payment fees of £236.69 and it would 
therefore be reasonable for Nat West to cover these costs.
Nat West also applied bank charges of £60 for five failed standing orders. It accepts that 
these were incurred due to the account being on hold and Mr G therefore not having access 
to amend the standing orders. As previously mentioned, Nat West has already offered to 
refund this amount. But it should be noted that our investigator has recommended a refund 
of £61.05 which includes a £1.05 account fee.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint and require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay A a total of £700.74 for reputational damage, financial loss and a refund of 
bank charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman