DRN-2933317
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a disputed transaction made from his 
account.
What happened
Mr M has an account with Monzo. 
On 4 June 2020 Mr M noticed that someone had transferred £250 from his account to the 
account of a third party I will refer to as Mr R. The transfer took place at 4.20 am.
Mr M says it wasnt him who carried out the transfer. Mr M notified Monzo through their 
banking app.
Mr M complained to Monzo. They investigated and didnt uphold the complaint. They said 
the transaction wasnt fraudulent and therefore they wouldnt refund him.
Mr M was unhappy with Monzos response, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She thought that either Mr M had made the transaction himself or had authorised 
someone to do them. Although the transaction was made from a different device the IP 
address used had been used by Mr M a couple of days before. She thought that Mr M must 
have consented to the transfer because Mr Ms PIN and other details were needed to carry 
out the transfer.
Mr M had said he hadnt shared his PIN or details with anyone else and no one has access 
to his card or PIN or his phone.
Mr M was unhappy with the investigators view so he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine security details were 
used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Monzo to hold Mr M liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr M consented to the transfer being 
made. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude Mr M authorised 
the transactions. I say this because:
The payment was authorised using Mr Ms PIN. Mr M has said that he hasnt shared 
his PIN so I cant see how a fraudster would have guessed Mr Ms PIN.
Although the payment was made using a different device to the one Mr M usually 
uses, the IP address used was the same one used by Mr M two days before the 
disputed transaction using his usual mobile device.
The IP address used was likely a household network. This suggests Mr M had been 
at that location with his mobile and accessed his mobile banking from that location.
In order for the payment to be made on a different device the app would have been 
downloaded on that device.  A magic link is provided by Monzo in that situation  the 
link would have been sent to Mr M. So, in order for the app to be used on another 
device, Mr M would have had to forward the link on.
Mr M would have been sent an email to his account to confirm that the app had been 
successfully downloaded. So, I think it likely he was aware the app had been 
downloaded on a different device. Despite that notification he didnt get in touch with 
Monzo to highlight the issue .
As two different devices were used, the email log should show that two different 
devices were used to log into the email, but Mr Ms online banking was only 
accessed through his usual mobile device. 
Mr M has said no one else knew his PIN or had access to his phone and phone PIN. 
So, its difficult to see how these details were compromised to allow the fraudster to 
access Mr Ms account.
Mr Ms phone was biometrics enabled, so the phone was unlocked using the 
biometrics information. I have seen evidence the Monzo website was accessed 
through the biometrics information so Mr M must have been present when the phone 
was used. 
Taking everything into account I find on balance that its more likely than not Mr M carried out 
the disputed transaction or allowed someone he knew to do so. It follows Monzo are entitled 
to hold him liable for it and I wont be asking Monzo to refund Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman