DRN-2438234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Santander UK Plc (Santander) sent a payment to the wrong account, 
causing them to incur a financial loss.
What happened
 
In late February 2020, Mrs S visited a Santander branch to pay a utility bill from her bank 
account which she holds jointly with Mr S. 
In March 2020, Mr S received a letter from the utility company informing him it hadnt 
received the payment.
Mr Ss account number with the utility company had changed, but the payment was sent 
using details from an existing mandate on Santanders system which had the previous 
account number.
In early April 2020, Mr S arranged a second payment through Santander  this time the 
correct utility account number was quoted. He also complained Santander sent the initial 
payment using incorrect details, despite Mrs S handing over the bank giro credit slip.
Santander said it didnt do anything wrong as Mrs S would have needed to confirm the 
payment information before it was made. As a gesture of goodwill, it paid £20 into Mr and 
Mrs Ss bank account. Santander also attempted to recover the initial payment from the 
beneficiary bank, but this request was rejected due to insufficient funds in the receiving 
account. 
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to us. They said theyd lost out financially as the first 
payment hadnt been returned. And they were unhappy Santander didnt accept 
responsibility for its mistake. 
Our investigator thought Santander had acted unfairly. He concluded it was likely the 
payment was processed as a matter of routine using the existing mandate details. And so, 
the new utility account number was overlooked by the cashier. He also thought it was 
unlikely Mrs S was asked to confirm the payment details before it was made as shed said 
she didnt recall this. But the investigator was satisfied Santander took reasonable steps in 
trying to recover the funds once this was brought to its attention.
To put matters right, the investigator asked Santander to refund the duplicate payment if 
Mr and Mrs S couldnt recover it directly from the utility company. He also recommended 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to them.
Mr and Mrs S agreed with the investigators findings, but Santander didnt. It said the utility 
company had received the initial payment even if it hadnt reached Mr and Mrs Ss account 
with it. So, the funds could have been recovered from the company directly. Santander also 
said the giro slip wasnt handed to the cashier, and Mrs S didnt check the payment details 
when she was asked to.
Our investigator remained persuaded by Mrs Ss recollections that she handed over the giro 
slip. He explained Mrs S didnt know the account number had changed as this wasnt 
highlighted on the utility bill. He thought the onus was therefore on Santander to check the 
payment information was correct. As Mr and Mrs S subsequently confirmed the utility 
company had agreed to return the duplicate payment, the investigator only recommended 
the £200 compensation.
Santander said by authorising the payment, Mrs S indicated shed checked the details and 
was happy for it to be processed. Although it accepted our investigators position, it said 
£200 compensation was excessive and was willing to offer £50. 
The investigator thought £200 was a fair reflection of the impact this error had on Mr and 
Mrs S. Santander asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I asked our investigator to let Mr and Mrs S know about Santanders latest position. They 
said they were happy for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on 4 December 2020, where I said I intended to direct 
Santander to pay £50 compensation to Mr and Mrs S in addition to the £20 it had already 
paid. I made the following findings:
Santanders said it accepts our investigators opinion that this complaint is upheld. So, 
whats left for me to decide is what I consider to be fair compensation.
It seems to me neither Mrs S nor the cashier realised the utility account number had 
changed. But, unlike our investigators conclusions, I dont consider the onus was on 
Santander alone to check the details were correct before the payment was made. Ill explain 
why.
Good industry practice dictates banks ask customers to check the payment information  the 
account details, reference and amount  is correct before authorising it. This provides an 
additional opportunity to identify and correct any mistakes. Santander has told us it adheres 
to this practice. The payment information is shown on the card reader, and the customer is 
required to either confirm the information is correct or decline the transaction.
Ive listened to a call Mr S made to Santander in April 2020, after arranging the second 
payment and making a complaint. He can be heard acknowledging that he  I think he 
meant Mrs S  didnt check the payment information carefully. During the call, Mr S also 
accepts this was a joint fault. 
I know Mrs S has said she only recalls being asked to check and confirm the amount. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest Santander experienced system issues at the time or 
departed from his standard procedure. Having considered everything, I think its more likely 
than not Mrs S was asked to check all the payment details. By authorising the payment, she 
confirmed shed checked and was satisfied the information the cashier had entered was 
correct. 
It is unfortunate a mistake occurred in the first instance. But it wouldnt be fair of me to 
conclude Santander alone was responsible for checking the payment information. I think it 
was within Mrs Ss remit to stop the payment from being sent to the wrong account. In the 
circumstances, I dont think £200 compensation is warranted. 
When thinking about fair compensation, Ive kept in mind Mr and Mrs S havent suffered a 
financial loss. The utility company has agreed to return the duplicate payment directly to 
them. Theyve experienced some inconvenience as theyve had to visit the branch again to make another payment. Santanders already paid £20 to Mr and Mrs S. Since our 
involvement, it has offered a further £50. Having given this some thought, I consider the 
overall amount of £70 to be fair compensation.
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs S provided any further comments in response to my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay £50 
compensation to Mr and Mrs S in addition to the £20 its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman