DRN-1644029
 
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has refused to refund an online transaction where 
she didn't complete the verified by Visa security screen.
What happened
Ms L bought some plane tickets through an online travel agent. When completing the 
transaction, she was phoned by her son to say that he may need to change the flight dates. 
Ms L had at that stage gone through all the purchase screens and input her card details. She 
remembers the verified by Visa screen flashing up, but she didn't input her pass code.
But the transaction went through anyway and the travel agent refused to refund the cost of 
her tickets. So she raised a disputed transaction claim with HSBC. It refused to refund Ms 
L's money as the transaction had been made by her. It said that the verified by Visa system 
wasn't owned or administered by HSBC. In this instance her password had not been 
required because the system recognised both the computer IP address and the device ID. 
So Visa had been satisfied that the transaction was being made by Ms L and that no further 
verification was needed.
Our investigator didn't recommend that Ms L's complaint be upheld. Ms L didn't agree and 
the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry to disappoint Ms L, but I won't be upholding her complaint, and for substantially the 
same reasons as our investigator. I'll explain why.
I appreciate Ms L is unhappy that HSBC's leaflets all explain that it uses the verified by Visa 
service and that this is there as an additional protection for customers when shopping online. 
So she thinks that if the system doesn't work correctly, then that's HSBC's fault, and so she 
should get her money back.
This isn't, however, a situation where the system didn't work. The verified by Visa service 
sometimes requires a pass code and sometimes doesn't. On this occasion it didn't. That was 
because Ms L was using a computer on an internet line that she had used before. So the 
system recognised it as her and so didn't require her pass code. I know that Ms L had never 
used this retailer before and that she says she's always asked for a code when shopping 
elsewhere. But I'm afraid that the fact the system didn't ask her for a code on this occasion 
doesn't mean that it wasn't operating correctly.
By the time that Ms L had wanted to stop making the purchase, she'd already put in all her 
card details and asked the system to debit the money from her account. This wasn't a 
situation where someone had obtained her card details and was using it for fraud. That sort of thing normally happens away from someone's home on another computer. So the verified 
by Visa system didn't need Ms L's pass code to complete the transaction. The Visa screen 
will have popped up as it often does when card transactions are made. But sometimes it just 
hangs there for a couple of seconds whilst waiting for its checks on the identity of the 
computer to complete. It then disappears and the transaction goes through.
I know that Ms L thinks that HSBC should have warned her in its documentation that this 
may happen. But I don't think that would be a reasonable thing to have required it to do. The 
verified by Visa scheme isn't provided by HSBC and it's there as an additional security 
measure for the customer, the retailer and the bank. Here, there was no doubt that it was 
someone in Ms L's household authorising the transaction. And so it went through. I don't 
think there was anything wrong with that.
HSBC's terms and conditions provide that 'You can't change or cancel a payment that you've 
asked us to make immediately. This includes debit card payments'. I think this term is clear. 
Ms L's payment here was made on a debit card. She had authorised it. And the verified by 
Visa system was satisfied that it was her. So I don't think that HSBC needs to refund the 
amount of the transaction.
Ms L's dispute here should really be with the online travel agent which refused to refund the 
cost of the tickets. If she hasn't already, Ms L would be best to take this up with them.
My final decision
I don't uphold Ms L's complaint and I don't require that HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman