DRN-3600661
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him after he lost money to a purchase 
scam.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in February 2021 Mr T made a payment transfer of 
£460 to an individual he believed was selling PlayStation 5 consoles. Unfortunately the 
individual was in fact a fraudster and Mr T received nothing in return.
Mr T had seen what appeared to be a business page on a social media site, selling clothing 
and electrical goods. Hes explained he searched the company name online and found a 
website, which reassured him the company was legitimate. He said the social media page 
also had 12,000 followers and a number of positive reviews, with apparent evidence of 
customers receiving their goods, so believed the page to be genuine. 
Mr T contacted the page and asked if there were any PlayStation 5s in stock and was told 
there were four left, for £460 each. After discussing the delivery process, Mr T agreed to 
purchase one and was provided with a business name, account name and account details to 
transfer the payment to. The account name Mr T entered matched with the genuine account 
holder. After making the payment, Mr T was told the payment hadnt been received by the 
accounts team and was asked to send the funds again. Mr T realised at this point hed been 
the victim of a scam, and contacted Monzo to raise a claim.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo considers Mr T didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making a genuine 
purchase. It said Mr T shouldve completed more checks to confirm the legitimacy of who he 
was paying. 
Mr T feels he should be refunded and so has referred his complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be upheld, with Monzo providing a full 
refund. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr T 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr T lost.
The money was taken from Mr Ts current account. It is not clear how Mr T would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date Metro Bank decided not to refund Mr T under the CRM Code to the 
date of payment.
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr T had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr T failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im also satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr T lacked a reasonable basis of belief. 
Monzo has said the price Mr T paid was too good to be true and that while this was the 
recommended retail price, resale costs at the time were around double. While I appreciate 
there were some individuals (and businesses) charging much more than the retail price for 
these products, there were also a number of businesses choosing to continue to sell the 
console at retail value and that while the console was harder to come by at this standard 
price, it was still possible to if businesses had received stock that day. I therefore dont think 
the price was unrealistic in the unusual circumstances for this product at the time.
Monzo also considers that corresponding on social media and accepting payment through 
direct transfers are  concerning ways for a business to act. However I think its becoming 
increasingly common for genuine businesses, particularly smaller ones, to conduct business 
in this way, and while these certainly can be hallmarks of a scam, particularly for someone 
with more knowledge of these scams, I certainly dont consider the two are synonymous with 
each other.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Mr T lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief for making the transaction in question. Monzo should therefore refund the 
funds Mr T lost to the fraudster.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Mr T the £460 he lost to the scam
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Monzo declined Mr Ts claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman