DRN-4065456
The complaint
Ms V complaints that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First direct) wont refund £10,500 she 
says she lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms V authorised the disputed payments she made to her Binance 
wallet using her First Direct debit card (where her funds were subsequently transferred 
on to the scammer). The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security 
credentials provided by First Direct, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether First Direct should have done more to prevent Ms V 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt in dispute that some of the disputed payment activity was considered unusual, 
such as the second payment she made to Binance on 19 April 2022, which was blocked 
pending further enquiry. On this occasion that Ms V spoke to First Direct, she was asked 
questions such as whether she had been pushed or pressured into making the payment, 
and whether she had been contacted out of the blue, to which she said she had not. 
I note that Ms V had made payments to cryptocurrency platforms prior to making the 
disputed payments, such as paying £3,000 to Kraken on 7 and 8 April 2022. First Direct 
spoke to Ms V about these payments, where she confirmed that she had approached 
Kraken herself for an investment, and that nobody else had contacted her. Given Ms Vs 
previous payments to Kraken, I dont think First Direct ought reasonably to have had and 
significant concerns when she started making payments to Binance as another crypto 
platform in the same month. So, I think its line of questioning was proportionate to the 
potential risk when it spoke to Ms V about the payments she was making to Binance.
Even I were to accept that First Direct should have gone further with its intervention and 
warned Ms V or told her to carry out further research, Im not persuaded this would have 
ultimately prevented her loss in any event. I say this because Ms V has said she 
eventually began to doubt the legitimacy of the scam broker when her friend showed her 
negative reviews from Trustpilot saying they were fraudulent. However, Ms V said she 
had developed a trusting relationship with the broker, who explained to her that the 
reviews were not genuine, so she continued to follow their advice. So, given a warning 
from Ms Vs friend failed to reveal the scam, it seems unlikely that any further 
questioning or warning from First Direct would have made any difference in these 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Ms V says she was vulnerable at the time, as she was suffering with her 
mental health. Im sorry to hear about the difficult time Ms V has gone though. But I cant 
see that First Direct had been given prior notice of any vulnerabilities, or that there was 
any suggestion that she might have lacked capacity to make her own financial decisions 
at the time. As such, it wouldnt have been reasonable for First Direct to refuse a 
payment mandate given by Ms V. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms V, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that First Direct can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman