DRN-3788717
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money he lost as the result of a 
scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows. 
Mr S saw a private advert for a bike on a well-known online marketplace. He contacted the 
seller directly and agreed to buy the bike for £750. To secure the sale Mr S agreed to send a 
deposit of £500, which Mr S paid through online banking on 8 August 2022. But unknown to 
him at the time he was dealing with a fraudster. Mr S realised hed been scammed when he 
was given details of a postcode, from where the bike was to be collected, that he couldnt 
locate and when the seller ignored his messages.
Bank of Scotland tried to recover the money from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the 
payment was made), after Mr S reported the matter to it. But unfortunately no funds 
remained.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM code). 
Bank of Scotland accepted Mr S had been scammed and it could have done more to 
intervene, as it recognised the payment Mr S made, for £500, was not typical compared to 
how he usually ran his account. But it thought he was also partly responsible. So it refunded 
only 50% of the money Mr S lost  a total of £250.
Unhappy that Bank of Scotland didnt refund the full amount he had lost, Mr S then brought 
his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. Our investigator 
thought there was enough going on that Mr S ought to have had concerns and that he 
should have taken further steps before making the payment. Our investigator also 
considered Mr S circumstances, but didnt think they prevented Mr S from being able to 
protect himself from this type of scam.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed over to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
 
Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one Mr S 
has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. One such circumstance 
might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. Bank of Scotland has refunded 
50% of Mr Ss loss, accepting that it could have intervened when Mr S made the payment, 
as the payment wasnt usual, compared to how Mr S typically ran his account. So it 
recognised, under the provisions of the CRM code, it should bear some responsibility for    
Mr Ss loss. As Bank of Scotland has provided a partial refund to reflect this - there is no 
need for me to consider this point further. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points, account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam. So, Ive 
considered what steps Mr S took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the individual 
selling the bike and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment. 
When looking at similar models and make of bike in the market at the time  I think the bike 
being sold to Mr S was under the retail value by at least 50%. Mr S has said that hed been 
looking for a bike of this kind for some time. He recognised the price of the bike, at £750 was 
cheap, and has said he knew the price would be upwards of £1,600, he also thought the 
bikes registration plate was unusual, and that in itself, might be worth something. 
I find that the price itself was too good to be true from the outset - to the extent that it ought 
to have raised significant doubt in Mr Ss mind. In his submissions Mr S has said that he 
thought the seller may have wanted to make a quick sale, so he thought hed take a chance.
 
Given Mr S himself thought the bike was so cheap, I wouldve expected him to have been 
more wary and to have applied more caution before proceeding with the payment. But, by 
his own admission, Mr S didnt carry out any checks on the bike himself or make any 
substantial attempts to protect himself as I wouldve expected him to do  such as, for 
example, taking steps to research the seller or verify they were genuine, asking to see the 
vehicles documents, checking to see the seller owned it and had a right to sell it, checking 
MOT documents. 
Mr S has told us his circumstances made him vulnerable. The CRM Code talks about 
customers being reimbursed in full, despite exceptions (such that I have outlined above) 
applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the extent that they were unable to protect 
themselves from the scam. So, I have also considered what the CRM Code says about 
vulnerability and when it might lead to a full refund, even if Mr S hasnt met his requisite level 
of care.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has told us. When considering the relevant part of the 
CRM Code, it says: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
So Ive considered whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that Mr S was 
unable to take steps to identify the scam he fell victim to or to recognise steps he might take 
to test the legitimacy of what he was being told by the fraudster. To do so I must consider 
the details of the scam, Mr Ss actions throughout, and the wider circumstances.
I dont doubt what Mr S has said about his medical conditions. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that because of his condition Mr S was unable to protect himself from this particular 
scam. Mr S wanted to purchase a bike  a decision he proactively made. He found the 
advert on an online marketplace for the precise model of bike he wanted and he contacted 
the seller, offering to pay a deposit, with the balance on collection of the bike. He also 
recognised the price was low and took the decision to take a chance. Given this, Im not 
persuaded that it would be unreasonable to expect Mr S to have protected himself against 
the particular scam he fell victim to. And so I dont find that Bank of Scotland needs to refund 
Mr Ss entire loss under the vulnerability clause of the code.
 
Finally, Ive gone on to think about whether Bank of Scotland did what it shouldve done 
once it was aware this was a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Bank of Scotland 
to refund the money to Mr S, I need to be satisfied that Bank of Scotland should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference.
 
Here, I can see Bank of Scotland raised the matter with the receiving bank but unfortunately 
it wasnt able to recover the money. Im persuaded Bank of Scotland tried to recover the 
money within a reasonable time frame. Sadly, it is quite typical with these types of scams for 
fraudsters to move money away from the beneficiary account, straight after the payments 
are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of recovery.
Mr S has my considerable sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation where 
he has lost money to a fraudster. And I understand the whole experience has been deeply 
upsetting for him and I dont underestimate his strength of feeling. But overall, for reasons 
explained Im persuaded that the offer Bank of Scotland has already made, to refund 50% of 
the money lost, is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of this case. So I dont 
think Bank of Scotland has to refund any more of the money Mr S lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman