DRN-2858299
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the amount Insurance Factory Ltd (trading as Lancaster Insurance 
Services) says he owes after he cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a car insurance policy through Lancaster  a broker. He applied for the policy 
through an online comparison website. Around five months later he contacted Lancaster to 
say hed sold his car and asked to cancel the policy. Lancaster responded to say he owed 
£83.27 following the cancellation. But it offered to apply a 20% discount if he paid straight 
away.
Mr S complained to Lancaster as he didnt understand why he owed any further money. He 
didnt think it was fair he was paying the full annual premium when hed only had the policy 
for five months. Lancaster said the amount it had charged was in line with the terms of the 
insurance policy. It said Mr S didnt take out a monthly insurance policy. It was an annual 
insurance policy, but the annual premium was funded through a loan and Mr S was repaying 
that loan monthly. 
Mr S maintained what he was being charged was unfair. He also said hed not been told he 
was taking out a loan, nor did he think he had consented to this. He said he doesnt take out 
little loans and said he wouldnt have taken out the loan had this been made clear to him. 
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first explain Lancaster were acting as an insurance and credit broker to arrange the 
insurance policies and finance agreements. In reviewing this complaint I need to think 
whether its carried out its responsibilities as a broker. Im not able to consider the actions of 
the insurer or the finance provider in this decision.
I think there are two issues for me to decide here:
1. The sale of the finance agreement; and
2. The cost of cancelling the insurance policy.
I shall address each section separately.
Sale of the finance agreement
Mr S took out an annual insurance policy through Lancaster. An annual premium was 
payable for the policy and this was due at the start of the insurance policy. Mr S chose to 
pay for the insurance policy through monthly instalments. To facilitate this, Mr S took out a 
type of finance agreement called a running account credit agreement whereby the finance 
provider  who I shall refer to as C  paid the annual premium and Mr S was to repay this 
under the terms of the finance agreement. Its now standard industry practice for a consumer 
to take out a finance agreement to enable them to pay for an insurance policy monthly. 
Mr S says Lancaster didnt explain he was entering into a finance agreement or what the 
applicable costs of finance were.
As the credit broker, Lancaster needed to ensure Mr S had enough information to make an 
informed choice about what his options were. In particular, Ive thought about the regulatory 
guidelines set out in CONC 4.2.5. So I think it needed to explain before Mr S entered into the 
contract that he was entering into a finance agreement, the applicable rate of interest (APR), 
how much extra it would cost to pay monthly and how much it would cost to pay for the 
policy up-front.
Ive reviewed the online application Mr S would have completed, but I dont think Lancaster 
did enough. It explained that the direct debit arrangement would be provided by a third party 
 C  but it didnt clearly set out that Mr S would be taking out a separate finance agreement. 
I also cant see that it would have clearly set out what the relevant APR was. I accept Mr S 
could have clicked through a link to find the pre-contract document. But I dont think this is 
sufficient. It needed to make all the relevant information reasonably clear to Mr S without him 
needing to go and click through a number of links to find this information. And I dont think it 
did so.
However, I also need to think about whether Mr S would have acted differently. I can see 
that it was made clear at the start of the finance application how much Mr S would pay if he 
paid it upfront and how much it would cost if he in monthly instalments. So Mr S would have 
known how much more it would cost to pay monthly. And he chose to pay monthly.
Further to this, Mr S has told us that he routinely paid for his insurance policies monthly. And 
its most likely he would have had a similar arrangement for his previous insurance policies  
i.e. he would have taken out a finance agreement to facilitate this. So, while I have 
considered Mr Ss comment that he wouldnt have taken out the finance agreement had it 
been made clearer to him, Im not persuaded that he would have acted differently. 
Cancellation of the insurance policy
Mr S is unhappy he still owed over £80 after he cancelled the insurance policy and he thinks 
its unfair hes had to pay the full annual premium even though hed only had the policy for 
around five months.
Ive looked at why Mr S still owes money and this is because of the administrative charges 
Lancaster has charged. Insurers and brokers are entitled to charge administrative charges to 
cover the cost of any work it does. In this case Lancaster has charged a £70 fee to arrange 
the policy, £30 for a mid-term adjustment and £2.22 as a cancellation charge.
I dont think £70 is an unfair charge to cover the work Lancaster had to do to arrange the 
insurance policy  such as create new policy documents, send them to Mr S, arrange to 
record his car on the database and set up the requisite credit agreement to enable him to 
pay for the policy. I understand Mr S changed the registration number for the vehicle midway 
through the policy. Similarly, this would have required some administrative work  i.e. 
updating policy documents and updating the details on the MIB database. So I dont think it 
was unfair to charge a £30 fee to do this. Finally, the terms of the policy allowed Lancaster to 
charge up to £50 to cancel the policy. And I dont think it would have been unfair if it had 
charged this. So I think its treated Mr S fairly in only charging £2.22.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Lancaster has treated Mr S unfairly. So I dont 
think it needs to do anything further to put things right. 
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary he raised the following points:1. He thinks, while Lancaster may have acted legally, he didnt think they treated him fairly.
2. He knew he had to pay more to pay monthly but he didnt know what the APR was.
3. He maintained that when he tried to cancel the policy Lancaster said he would have to 
repay the loan in full. He said, it was only as the matter unfolded, that he found out 
Lancaster were a broker, not an insurer.
4. He understood he had to pay administrative charges and never disputed this, so queried 
why I referred to this in my decision.
5. He has since paid for all his insurance policies with upfront payments. So he maintains 
he would have done the same, had it been made clear he was taking out a finance 
agreement.
Lancaster responded to maintain it did make everything clear in the online application 
process. It said the details are provided throughout the journey, without the customer having 
to click through a number of links to find the information. And it highlighted that it set out if 
you choose to pay by Direct Debit, your monthly instalment plan will be financed by [C] and 
that they will send a welcome pack including a credit agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken both Mr S and Lancasters additional comments into account, but Ive come to the 
same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr S doesnt believe its fair that he has to take out a small loan to pay for an 
insurance policy through monthly instalments and that he doesnt think Lancaster treated 
him fairly. But, as I said above, its standard practice for consumers to enter into credit 
agreements to enable them to pay monthly. 
This service isnt the regulator of the insurance industry  so its not our role to set out what 
an insurer should or shouldnt be doing. We are a dispute resolution service and our role is 
to consider whether and insurer/broker has acted fairly, taking into account the law and 
industry regulations. In this case, Ive looked at whether Lancaster set out what it was 
required to do, in line with industry regulations. My provisional decision set out what I think 
Lancaster was required to do and where I think it did and didnt do what it should. And I 
havent seen anything for me to say what I set out in my provisional decision was unfair.
Mr S says he didnt understand what the APR was before he agreed to take out the policy. 
But since I issued my provisional decision, Ive noted that, just before he had to click to pay 
for the policy, the following statement was set out:
You have selected to pay by monthly instalments via Direct Debit. A deposit of £22.65 is 
required today, followed by 10 instalments of £23.64. The total amount you will pay will be 
£259.05, which includes interest at 16% (APR 39.18%).
So Im now satisfied the total cost and applicable APR was set out before Mr S took out the 
policy and he chose to take it out. 
The online application does explain the monthly payments were arranged by a third party  
C  and that Mr S was entering into a credit agreement. But I dont think an average 
consumer would necessarily understand that a credit agreement would mean a loan  they 
may reasonably just assume its a monthly credit facility. I would expect Lancaster to explain the type of credit agreement Mr S was taking out  i.e. a running account credit agreement. 
And I dont think Lancaster made this clear.
But, Im still not persuaded Mr S would have acted differently. I accept he now pays for his 
policies upfront. But I similarly cant ignore that he routinely paid for his insurance policies 
monthly previously. And he would have taken out running account credit agreements with all 
of these policies. Its only since raising the complaint that hes understood the way the 
industry works. But I think this is because he may have not read everything that was set out 
in the online application. And I cant hold Lancaster responsible for this.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Ss comment that he was told he had to pay the full amount of 
the loan when he looked to cancel the policy. But I dont agree it said this. I dont dispute 
Mr S thought he was being made to pay the full annual premium. But Lancaster didnt say 
this. It set out that there was still money owing on the credit agreement, but this was 
because of the administration charges that were payable under the policy. And, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Lancaster didnt treat Mr S unfairly in what its 
charged and what it said he still owed on the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman