DRN-4078880
The complaint
Miss P and Mr W complain that Inspop.com Ltd trading as Confused.com made an error 
when providing information to their insurer which has caused a subsequent insurance claim 
to be declined.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Miss P in my decision.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss P took out a new home insurance policy after getting a quote through 
Confused.coms online platform. Miss P said that she completed the online application 
detailing five claims shed made in the previous five years. And Miss P from the quotes 
provided took out a home insurance policy with her insurer, Ill call H. But on making a 
claim against her home insurance policy around August 2022, H declined the claim as they 
said Miss P hadnt disclosed all of the relevant previous claims shed had, and if she had 
they wouldnt have incepted the home insurance policy. H said under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act (CIDRA) shed misrepresented her 
circumstances. This meant Miss Ps home insurance policy was cancelled and her claim 
declined. 
Miss P said shed detailed all five of her previous claims, and that Confused.com had failed 
to submit all five to her insurer. She said this meant her insurance claim of around £4,000 to 
£5,000 wouldnt be met. She complained to Confused.com.
Confused.com said Miss P had only provided details of four previous claims when she 
completed her details on their online platform. And all the details shed given were submitted 
to the insurers for her home insurance quotes. Miss P wasnt happy with Confused.coms 
response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said she was persuaded by the evidence that only four previous claims had 
been entered on the Confused.com platform and this information had been passed to the 
insurer for a quote. She didnt ask Confused.com to do anything else. Miss P didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The two key pieces of evidence for me to consider when looking at this case, are the
screenshots provided by Miss P, and the quote record provided by Confused.com. One 
screenshot provided by Miss P to us shows five claims, one in 2016, one in February 2017, 
and three in 2018 for £490, £1,000, £750, £320 and £450 respectively. Ive looked at the 
evidence of the policy history Confused.com says are the entries Miss P made when used 
their online platform, this shows four claims, three in 2018 for £750, £320 and £1,500, and 
one in 2021 for £850. So only two of the claims tally, one for £750 and the other for £320. 
In an email trail between Miss P and Confused.com Miss P sent a screenshot she says is of 
the missing claim which was for £450 in 2018, but the screenshot isnt timestamped and 
doesnt show the platform or the quote information it relates to. And in another email I can 
see Miss P provided screenshots of four claims, one in 2016 for £490 and three in 2018, 
£750, £450 and £320.
I can understand Miss Ps frustration but the evidence shes provided doesnt show any
identifiers. And differ not just in the quantity but also the value of the claims Miss P says she 
entered against the details Confused.com have shown.
Confused.com has shown the full quote summary, which says please check the details are 
correct to ensure the quotes displayed meet your needs . And under policy history I can see 
the four claims outlined above for £750, £320, £1,500 and £850. I havent seen any evidence 
that Miss P disputed the details as being incorrect. But I can see that Confused.com 
checked with  H who confirmed the policy was quoted on the four claims that loaded from 
the Confused.com platform.
I appreciate that Miss P believes the quote generated was based on her inputting five
previous claims. But Im persuaded by Confused.coms evidence as this shows a full 
summary of the information from which the quotes were obtained. And Miss P has given a 
number of different claims she said shed entered.
So, I think its most likely the quote she accepted was based on her inputting the four claims 
listed by Confused.com and not the five Miss P said shed given. 
I know Miss P will be disappointed by my decision but for the above reasons, Im
not upholding her complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman