DRN-2953099
The complaint
Miss A complains that Nationwide Building Society mishandled her chargeback claim and 
rejected her claim for a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, both in 
respect of some coats she had ordered.
What happened
In December 2019 Miss A bought four coats online, and paid for them with her Nationwide 
credit card. The total cost was £136.74.
In January, the retailer sent her two coats, neither of which were the ones she had ordered. 
The other two coats never arrived. So she asked Nationwide for a refund.
On 5 March, Nationwide wrote to her and told her to send the coats back to the retailer, and 
to send Nationwide proof of the return. It said there was nothing it could do until she had 
done that. It said if she did not provide proof that she had returned the items within 14 days, 
then it would assume that she no longer wished to pursue her claim, and would close her 
case.
There is a dispute about what happened next. Miss A says that Nationwide wrote to her 
again in March, and told her that she did not need to do anything. Nationwide denies that. It 
says it has no record of any such record, and that it would never tell a customer to do that. 
When it asked Miss A to show it the letter, she said she didnt have it any more.
What is not in dispute is that Miss A did not send Nationwide proof that she had returned the 
coats, and so Nationwide closed her case. After that, the 120-day time limit for raising a 
chargeback claim expired, and so when Miss A next contacted Nationwide, in May, there 
was nothing to be done. Nationwide also told her section 75 did not apply, because none of 
the coats had cost more than £100, being the minimum price of goods to which that section 
applies.
Miss A brought this complaint to our service, but it was not upheld. Our investigator said 
there was no evidence that the second letter had ever existed. Miss A said that one of 
Nationwides call handlers had told her in a phone call that the letter had been sent, but the 
investigator said that Nationwide had no record of any such call either. He also agreed that 
section 75 did not apply to her purchase, due to the value of the coats. Miss A asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have seen the prices of each of the coats, and none of them is as much as £100. Section 
75 does not apply to the purchase of goods unless they are priced higher than that, and it is 
the cost of the individual items which counts, not the total cost of multiple items. So 
Nationwide was right to reject her claim for a refund under section 75.
Nationwide has no record of any letter telling Miss A not to return the coats, nor any record 
of any phone call in which anyone told her that such a letter had been sent, nor is there any 
reason why anyone would write such a letter. I do not find her story to be a plausible one. 
I do not accept that the letter existed, or that anybody told her that it did exist, or that 
anybody told her to do anything other than what the letter dated 5 March told her to do  that 
is, to return the coats and send Nationwide proof of the return within 14 days. She did not do 
that, and so Nationwide was entitled to close her case; it had no other choice. When she 
contacted Nationwide again, it was too late.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman