DRN-3379044
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) reclaimed all the direct debit payments 
made to his credit card account rather than a single payment he felt wasnt due. He says this 
resulted in a credit card debt hes struggling to repay.    
What happened
Mr S holds a current account with HSBC. In October 2021, he noticed a direct debit on his 
HSBC statement which had been paid to a credit card provider. Mr S didnt recognise the 
direct debit. So, he contacted HSBC using their online webchat service.
During the webchat conversation Mr S asked HSBC to provide more detail about the direct 
debit payment hed seen. As he didnt recognise the payment, he wanted HSBC to cancel 
the direct debit and refund him. HSBC agreed to raise an indemnity claim for any amounts 
owed under the direct debit.
Shortly after, Mr S was contacted by his own credit card provider. They said he owed them 
about £1,600. His credit card provider required payment from him by 20 December 2021. Mr 
Ss credit card statement showed a direct debit refund had been paid out to his HSBC 
account following an indemnity request by them totalling £1,610.44. Mr S didnt think this 
was right, so he contacted HSBC to complain about what had happened.
HSBC responded to Mr S the following day. They said the amount withdrawn from his credit 
card account related to the direct debit indemnity claim hed raised with them on 19 October 
2021. They said Mr S had told them he had no knowledge of the direct debit that had been 
set up in 2011. 
Mr S wasnt happy with HSBCs response. He asked them to provide a copy of the signed 
direct debit instruction together with a recording of the telephone conversation with them on 
19 October 2021. He didnt agree with HSBCs recollection of what hed said. HSBC told him 
the direct debit was an automated instruction, so no paper copy was available. They also 
said his conversation with them in October 2021 was via their webchat service and not over 
the telephone.
Mr S remained unhappy. He said hed only asked HSBC to refund the direct debit claimed in 
October 2021 and not everything hed ever paid. HSBC said Mr S had told them he didnt 
recognise the direct debit instruction and suggested it was fraudulent. Because of this, all 
payments made under the direct debit instruction were reclaimed under the indemnity claim.
Mr S decided to refer his complaint to this service. Having considered all the information and 
evidence available, our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. She 
thought HSBC had responded appropriately to the situation and reasonably to Mr Ss 
subsequent complaint. Our investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. He didnt understand how a direct debit 
could be set up without his signature. He thought HSBC shouldve been clearer about the 
amount(s) they were reclaiming, as he wouldve told them he only wanted the October 2021 
payment refunding.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ss complaint has been referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A direct debit is an instruction from an account holder to a bank. It authorises an 
organisation to collect varying amounts from the individuals account subject to advance 
notice of the amounts and dates of collection. A direct debit instruction can be set up by 
contacting the proposed beneficiary. Authorisation can be made in a number of ways, 
including by post, over the telephone or online. In each case, the beneficiary needs the 
account holders bank details to enable payments to be claimed.
The efficiency and security of the direct debit scheme is very closely monitored by the 
banking industry with account holders protected by a direct debit guarantee. This means that 
where the claiming organisation hasnt complied with the requirements of the scheme or 
theres been an error, the account holder is entitled to a refund of any payments claimed. 
Mr S first contacted HSBC on 19 October 2021 to query a direct debit payment from his 
account to a credit card company. HSBC have provided a full transcript of the webchat 
conversation that took place. 
Having identified the direct debit payment Mr S was referring to, HSBC said, . the direct 
debit was set up since 02Nov2011. It was with. 
Mr S responded with, Please cancel this dd. Its been set up without my knowledge or 
permission. HSBC provided details of how Mr S could cancel the direct debit instruction and 
confirmed, I will reverse the payment today. So, at this stage, it appears HSBC had agreed 
to reverse the single payment Mr S had referred to.
Mr S went on to say, I did not set it up!!! This is fraud!!!. Mr S went on to confirm hed 
cancelled the direct debit instructions using HSBCs guidance. He then said, I want to know 
who authorised the dd in the first instance. So, HSBC confirmed they could make an 
indemnity claim and undertake an investigation. They also suggested he contact the 
beneficiary and provided Mr S with a telephone contact number to do that.
HSBC confirmed they would make an indemnity claim and provided a disclaimer wording 
which Mr S confirmed. HSBC then confirmed, Your refund request will be dealt with within 
one working day, however where further investigation is required, we will look to refund or 
contact you within five working days.
Having carefully considered this transcript, I believe HSBCs interpretation of Mr Ss 
responses was that he had no knowledge of the direct debit instruction set up in November 
2011 and he believed it was fraudulent. So, HSBC completed an automated indemnity claim 
for all payments claimed under the instruction Mr S said was fraudulent. This resulted in 
£1,610.44 being credited to Mr Ss HSBC current account in early November 2021. But it 
also meant this amount was taken from his own credit card account, as that was where the 
previous direct debit payments had been paid to.
As a result, this left Mr S with an outstanding debt on his credit card account. And although 
the refund was paid into his HSBC current account, Mr S admits that hes used some of 
those funds. So, hes no longer in a position to immediately repay them.
Its clear there was confusion about the direct debit instruction. It appears Mr S had been 
making payments to his credit card account for many years under that authority. And 
although he may not recall originally authorising the continuous direct debit, it appears likely 
it was a legitimate instruction. Unfortunately, by telling HSBC he had no knowledge of the 
instruction from 2011 and also suggesting it was fraudulent, I dont think they had any option 
but to make a claim for all payments claimed under that instruction.I do have sympathy for the situation Mr S finds himself in, and while I appreciate he will be 
disappointed, I cant reasonably say that HSBC did anything wrong. They acted promptly 
based upon what Mr S told them on 19 October 2021. And from what Ive seen, thats what I 
wouldve expected them to do. 
Its unfortunate that Mr S appears to have used some of the funds refunded to him. But as I 
cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for that, I would urge him to discuss the situation 
openly with his credit card provider so that an affordable and sustainable repayment plan 
can be agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman