DRN-1517919
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont pay the full costs for the storage of 
his car after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay the full costs 
and compensate him for the stress hes suffered.
What happened
Mr K moved his car to storage after an accident and when an engineer had deemed it to be 
beyond economical repair. When Mr K accepted UKIs offer in settlement of his claim, he 
decided to retain the cars salvage and a cheque was sent to him. Mr K didnt receive this 
and then UKI arranged a BACs transfer. Mr K claimed for the cars storage but UKI would 
only pay this up to a day after Mr K accepted its offer and it had sent the cheque. It did, 
however, offer him £50 compensation as it said it could have been clearer when cover would 
stop.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that UKI 
had made it clear to Mr K when he accepted its settlement offer that the car was his 
responsibility. He thought it had reasonably paid for storage until a day after this point. And 
he thought it was Mr Ks choice to receive payment by cheque and then BACs. 
Mr K replied that he thought this was unfair. He said car hire charges had been honoured for 
this period, so he thought storage charges should be honoured as well. He said the delay in 
receiving payment was due to UKI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr K feels frustrated and disappointed by UKIs decision. UKI said it 
would only pay storage up until the claim was settled. This leaves Mr K with about half the 
storage costs, £436, in his name. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Mr Ks policy and it says that UKI will pay reasonable storage charges. So, like 
the investigator, Ive considered how UKI decided what was reasonable to cover. 
I havent seen or heard UKI tell Mr K that it would cover storage charges in full. UKI didnt 
arrange the storage. Mr K said he did this to prevent further damage to his car. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr K to mitigate his losses. But UKI decided to cover storage charges only up 
until one day after the claim was settled. I think this was fair and reasonable as when Mr K 
accepted settlement and the payment was issued, the claim was settled. 
I think Mr K was clear that he wanted to retain the car. So the car was his property and 
responsibility when the claim was settled. I think UKI made this clear to him in the call where 
Mr K accepted the settlement. 
Mr K said he couldnt recover his car from storage as he needed the settlement to do this. 
But I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for Mr Ks financial situation. Mr K also thought 
that as UKI had paid hire charges until hed received his settlement, it should pay storage 
charges for the same period. I cant see why UKI agreed to continue to pay the hire charges 
once the settlement was issued. But I dont think thats a reason for it to also pay all the 
storage charges. 
UKI offered Mr K a settlement by cheque or bank transfer if he preferred. Mr K didnt express 
a preference so UKI sent a cheque. UKI later gave him the same option again, but Mr K 
decided to wait for the cheque. Mr K didnt receive UKIs cheque. But Ive seen evidence that 
it was issued and sent. I cant hold UKI responsible for the postal service. When Mr K told 
UKI he hadnt received the cheque, it arranged BACs payment. I think that was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr K said UKI hadnt told him explicitly what storage charges it would cover. I think Mr K had 
assumed that it would cover all the costs. UKI agreed that it didnt tell Mr K that it would only 
pay storage up until the claim was settled. It thought it should have and I agree that this 
would have been good customer service. 
So UKI offered Mr K £50 compensation for this. I think that was fair and reasonable for its 
lack of advice as its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. Mr K declined 
this offer. But I still expect UKI to honour it if he decides to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman