DRN-4158598
The complaint
Miss T complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim she made on 
her home insurance policy following a leak at her home. 
Any reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Miss T has a home insurance policy with AXA. 
Miss T had a leak in her home in January 2022. She found water coming through her living 
room ceiling, the water travelled through the bathroom and entered two bedrooms before 
coming through the ceiling downstairs. Miss T reported it to her insurer who attended quickly 
and appointed another company to validate the damage and deal with the claim. The 
building had to be dried out which, she says, took months. 
Miss T agreed to AXAs contractors completing the work in her home as she thought it would 
be quicker and paid the excess. But there have been delays in completing the work and 
shes had to chase the loss adjustors for updates and to get the work progressed. 
Miss T says her furniture was removed in March 2022 but not returned. She feels she had to 
keep chasing AXA in order to find out what was happening with her claim. There were 
numerous delays and the whole claim has been very stressful for Miss T. At one stage the 
family were all living out of one room. She also says she was unable to obtain insurance 
because the claim with AXA was taking so long to complete. 
Miss T wants AXA to complete the repairs and put her house back into its original condition. 
Because she wasnt happy she complained to AXA. 
AXA said it accepted Miss Ts claim hadnt followed the correct processes and procedures, 
and it apologised for that. It made a payment of £150 for any inconvenience caused, and a 
further £25 because AXA didnt respond to Miss Ts concerns with the agreed timescales. 
Miss T was awarded a further £50 for a missed appointment with the contractor. In total Miss 
T was awarded £300 compensation for the delays and lack of communication. 
Miss T wasnt happy with the response from AXA. She said the offer of £225 was an insult 
and the issues with the repairs were significantly delayed. So she referred her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for Miss T. She said AXA accepted there 
were delays and already paid Miss T £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
those delays caused. She said due to the time the claim has been ongoing and the impact of 
Miss T she recommended AXA pay Miss T a further £200 to settle the complaint. The 
investigator said by March 2023 the claim had been going on for thirteen months and the 
repairs werent completed in time. She recognised the impact and distress caused to Miss T 
as a result of AXAs handling of the claim. 
Further information was provided to the investigator but her view didnt change. So the 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss T has strong views about what has happened. And I can empathise with 
the situation she now finds herself in. I have read and considered everything Ive received. 
My role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. The 
escape of water in Miss Ts home was reported in January 2022. AXA appointed a loss 
adjustor to deal with the claim and a drying company to dry out the areas affected by the 
water. The drying was completed in March 2022. The schedule of works was updated and 
approved on 19 April 2022. But Miss T didnt sign the mandate or pay the excess until July 
2022.  And the work continued for several months after that. So I dont think AXA has dealt 
with the claim promptly or fairly. 
I can see Miss T contacted AXA on a number of occasions in order to obtain an update on 
her claim and to get the repairs done as quickly as possible. Often calls werent returned 
when they should have been, or Miss T was provided with incorrect information. 
Miss T provides compelling testimony of the impact the claim has had on her and her family. 
It is also backed up by photographs and the claim notes from AXA. Ive no doubt it has been 
a difficult and stressful experience, not helped by the delays and lack of proactivity. 
Based on what Ive seen I think its fair to conclude AXA havent acted fairly or reasonably 
towards Miss T by not arranging for the repairs to be carried out promptly. 
AXA has accepted the service Miss T received wasnt the level it would expect and paid her 
£300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. Ive thought about this carefully. Its 
not our role to punish businesses where they havent acted fairly towards consumers, but 
given the circumstances described by Miss A, the length of the delays, and the 
inconvenience she has suffered I think a further award is due. I have detailed what I think is 
reasonable below. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AXA have acted unreasonably and so it should; 
Pay Miss T a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused bringing the 
total compensation to £500. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im upholding Miss Ts complaint about AXA Insurance UK 
Plc and direct it to do what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman