DRN-4380338
The complaint
Miss P has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss P contacted British Gas to send an engineer to fix her central heating. Several 
engineers visited and fitted new parts or provided advice. It was only a few months later that 
British Gas was able to fully repair the boiler.
Miss P complained because it had taken so long to repair the boiler and shed had to pay for 
parts that didnt fix it. When British Gas replied, it said the work on the boiler was overall 
necessary. However, it offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused and 
multiple appointments.
When Miss P complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
there seemed to be multiple attempts to fix the boiler that didnt work and Miss P was also 
left with a non-functioning boiler for several months as British Gas couldnt fix it. She said 
British Gas should reimburse the cost of the heat exchanger and for plumber visit and pay 
an additional £150 compensation.
As Miss P didnt agree with the level of compensation, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss P had a fault with her boiler. Despite multiple visits by British Gas engineers, it took 
several months to fix the boiler. British Gas replaced various parts in the boiler. One of the 
engineers said the heat exchanger needed to be replaced. Miss P had to pay £206 for it to 
be replaced. However, the issue continued after the part was replaced. 
Another engineer visited, who Miss P said didnt look in the boiler, and told her the issue was 
because she had low water pressure. She contacted the water company who checked and 
confirmed this wasnt the case. Miss P then arranged for British Gas to send a plumber. She 
had to pay £75 for them to visit. However, the plumber also couldnt find the problem. It was 
only when a senior technician visited that a spring was replaced, which fixed the issue.
So, I can see there were a number of visits that didnt fix the issue. I think there are times 
when more than one visit might be required to identify and fix an issue. But in this instance 
there were multiple visits over several months, during which Miss P seemed to be told 
different reasons why there was a problem with the boiler, none of which resolved it. This 
included Miss P paying for a new heat exchanger, but the problem continued after it was 
fitted. A plumber also visited, but was unable to find the issue. So, I think British Gas needs 
to reimburse the cost of the heat exchanger, which was £206, and the cost of the plumbers 
visit, which was £75, because neither of these seemed to resolve the issue. It should also 
pay interest on these amounts, as Miss P lost use of the money.
Miss P was also left without a functioning boiler for a few months. She said this affected her 
ability to shower and she also had to be available for the visits. Im aware she also had to 
follow up with things like the water company as well. Having thought about this, I think British 
Gas should pay a total of £250 compensation, which includes the £100 it previously offered. 
Im aware Miss P has said she thinks she should receive more compensation. But I think this 
fairly reflects the level of inconvenience caused to Miss P and is line with the level of 
compensation we would normally award in these types of circumstances.
Putting things right
British Gas should refund Miss P £206 for the heat exchanger and £75 for the plumber visit 
and pay interest on these amounts. It should also pay a total of £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Refund Miss P £206 for the heat exchanger
Refund Miss P £75 for the plumber visit
Pay 8% simple interest on both of the above amounts from the date on which Miss P 
paid the money to the date on which it is refunded
Pay a total of £250 compensation, which includes the £100 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman