DRN-1313333
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has declined his 
claim unfairly. 
What happened
Mr R has contents insurance with Lloyds. After moving home, he noticed some items of his 
contents were missing and made a claim for them. He said he thought the items could have 
been taken by the removal company or family members. Lloyds declined the claim because 
the policy didnt cover theft by people invited into the home.
Mr R didnt think this was fair. He thought he was covered for theft regardless of how it 
happened. He had previously made a contents claim which Lloyds had declined. After that 
he had added more cover to his policy to ensure he would be covered should anything else 
happen to his contents.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He didnt think Lloyds was required to cover all 
theft claims. He thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to include terms and conditions in the 
policy in order to choose which types of theft they provided cover for. He was satisfied 
Lloyds had declined the claim fairly. And he thought they had done enough to let Mr R know 
about the terms of the policy, including what wasnt covered.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that because a theft had occurred, he should be covered. 
Because Mr R didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Lloyds has acted 
fairly, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Mr R took out contents insurance with Lloyds in May 2019. He paid extra to include 
accidental damage cover.
Mr Rs complaint is about his theft claim being declined. But hes also mentioned how the 
policy was sold and his earlier contents claim. So, Ill explain my thoughts on those points as 
well as the theft claim.
First claim
In June 2019 Mr Rs mobile phone was accidentally damaged whilst he was out of his 
house. He made a claim to Lloyds and they declined it. They said his policy only covered his 
phone if it was damaged in his home. Because he didnt have personal belongings cover 
added to his policy, his phone wasnt covered away from the home.
Ive checked the policy and its clear that the accidental damage cover only applies to items 
of contents in the home. So, Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably in declining this claim.Policy sale
Mr R has said he thought when he took the policy out that he would be covered for damage 
away from his home. The policy was sold in a bank branch and there are no records of the 
conversation. Because of that I cant be sure what was said during the sale. 
Lloyds have shown us a script thats used during home insurance sales. It includes 
information about what accidental damage cover is and, separately, what personal 
belongings cover is. I think the script makes clear what cover is provided by each section. 
The adviser who sold the policy was asked about the sale. They recalled a discussion about 
personal belongings cover with Mr R in which he decided not to take it because it wouldnt 
cover his mobility scooter. The advisers recollection of the sale was given around a week 
after the sale took place. Given how recent that was, Im persuaded that the advisers 
recollection is most likely what took place.
Because of the script and the advisers recollection, I think the policy was sold fairly. The 
policy documents sent to Mr R after the sale are clear about whats included and what isnt.
Sale of extra cover
After the mobile phone claim was declined, Mr R called Lloyds to add personal belongings 
cover to his policy.
During the call he told Lloyds he thought he was now covered for everything. Lloyds told 
him the policy documents would set out what was covered, what wasnt covered, together 
with the excesses and policy limits that would apply to any claims he made. I think this was a 
reasonable response to let Mr R know that he wouldnt be covered for everything.
Second claim
In August 2019 Mr R reported the claim for theft to Lloyds. He wasnt certain how his items 
had gone missing. He thought it was possible they had been taken by the removal company. 
But he thought it was more likely the items had been stolen by members of his family who 
had been helping him unpack.
The policy covers theft of contents  but only under certain circumstances. The theft section 
makes clear that theft by anybody invited into the home isnt covered. Theres no doubt that 
Mr R invited his family members into his home. Because of that I think Lloyds acted fairly 
when it declined Mr Rs claim.
Mr R feels strongly that, as a victim of theft, his claim should be covered. He also thinks that 
the steps he took to add additional sections to his contents policy meant he would be 
covered for any contents claim.
No insurance policy will cover everything that might go wrong. Insurers are entitled to decide 
which circumstances theyre prepared to provide cover for. They must make those 
circumstances clear to their policyholders in the policy documents. Im satisfied Lloyds have 
done that here.
Mr R said he moved into his home in April 2019. Lloyds have said this means that even if his 
items were taken by the removal company, it would have happened before the policy began 
in May 2019. As a result, they wouldnt be responsible for the claim, but Mr R could 
approach his previous insurer. I agree.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. So, I dont require Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman