DRN-4233339
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home Loans (and 
referred to here as Paratus) will not remove her former partner, Mr T, from their joint 
mortgage account.
What happened
In 2007 Miss B and Mr T took out a joint mortgage on a property in which Miss B still lives. 
They borrowed approximately £210,000 on an interest-only basis over a term of 25 years. 
The current balance is approximately £214,000. The original lender transferred the mortgage 
to Paratus some years ago.
Miss B and Mr Ts relationship broke down and Miss B remained in the property. There have 
been court proceedings brought by Mr T against Miss B in relation to the property. The last 
court order Ive been provided with was in December 2022 when the judge granted an order 
for sale of the property.
Miss B wants Mr T removed from the mortgage account and she asked Paratus to do this. 
However, Paratus explained that its policy, since about 2013, is that it doesnt allow transfers 
of equity. 
Miss B complained to our service. The investigator understood how disappointing it was that 
Paratus couldnt remove Mr T from the mortgage account, but clarified that this wasnt 
something Paratus was able to do, as it was outside its policy.
Miss B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Miss B says that the 
transfer of equity has effectively taken place because that was something done through the 
courts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by clarifying that a transfer of equity isnt simply taking someones name off the 
mortgage; it also involves a lender making an assessment of whether or not the mortgage is 
affordable in the name of the sole remaining borrower  which is a lending decision involving 
a risk assessment and a consideration of affordability. 
However, although Paratus had allowed transfers of equity in the past, from about 2013 its 
policy changed and Paratus no longer offers these. As a result, Paratus hasnt been able to 
remove Mr T from the mortgage. 
Mortgage lenders dont have to notify borrowers of policy changes which dont alter the 
terms and conditions, so Paratus was entitled to change the policy about transfers of equity 
at any time. In the circumstances, Paratus is under no obligation make an exception and 
allow a transfer of equity for Miss B, as this isnt something it is able to do. I dont have any 
power to tell Paratus what policies it should have in place; thats a matter for Paratus to 
decide as part of its commercial operations. 
In any event, and contrary to what Miss B has said, Paratus has not been ordered by the 
court to remove Mr T from the mortgage account. Paratus isnt a party to those proceedings. 
I see that the last court order we have on file is dated 12 December 2022. That order says:
in the event [Miss B] is able to release [Mr T] from his covenants under the 
mortgage secured upon [address] before exchange of contracts in respect of the sale 
of the said property, [Mr T] will co-operate with the transfer of the property into the 
sole name of [Miss B] on the basis [Miss B] is solely responsible for any costs ...
The order then goes on to make an order for sale of the property, with Miss B being ordered 
to vacate the property. Miss B says she has paid Mr T over £60,000 for his interest in the 
property and that it is now registered in her sole name at the Land Registry. (No evidence 
has been provided of either the payment to Mr T or the Land Registry changes, but nothing 
turns on this in relation to this complaint.)
However, Paratus final response letter was dated 23 August 2022  some months before 
the December 2022 court order  when Miss B had already been told that Paratus didnt 
offer a transfer of equity. So Miss B knew, before the hearing in December 2022, that she 
couldnt remove Mr T from the mortgage account and that the only way to have the 
mortgage in her sole name would be to arrange a re-mortgage with a new lender. 
Indeed, I see from Paratus notes that Miss B was told on 17 December 2021 that Paratus 
could not remove Mr T and that shed need to take independent financial advice about 
arranging a re-mortgage. Given this, Im satisfied that Miss B had known for over a year 
before the December 2022 court order that Mr T couldnt be taken off the mortgage, and she 
could have taken steps much sooner to arrange to re-mortgage the property into her sole 
name.
Because Paratus cant remove Mr T from the mortgage, if Miss B wants a mortgage in her 
sole name, shell need to arrange a re-mortgage. In her phone conversations with the 
investigator I note that Miss B has indeed accepted that shell need to re-mortgage away 
from Paratus. 
Miss Bs explained that shes self-employed and that her income is primarily in cash. In the 
circumstances, I think it might help Miss B to speak to a mortgage adviser to discuss her 
options. Miss B can find details of mortgage advisers on the FCA website at 
https://www.fca.org.uk. Given that more than six months have passed since the order for 
sale was made, I would urge Miss B to speak to a mortgage adviser sooner rather than later.
I realise this has been a very difficult time for Miss B, and I know this isnt the outcome she 
was hoping for, but Im unable to find Paratus has done anything wrong.
I note Miss B also complained about the way Paratus dealt with her complaint. However, 
complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity and so its not covered by our rules. I will 
therefore not be able to make any comment about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman