DRN-3983954
The complaint
Mr and Ms C complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
handled a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers for which it takes 
responsibility. 
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I will only provide 
a summary of the key events here. 
On 18 March 2022, Mr and Ms C made a claim on their policy for the legal costs to pursue 
their neighbours for trespass. It took RSA until 25 April 2022 to complete their policy 
validation process. 
RSA says the delay was down to the broker who failed to provide the requested policy 
information. But it acknowledges that it couldve done more to chase a response. It also 
accepts that Mr and Ms Cs email went unanswered during this time, and they were left not 
knowing what was happening with their claim. 
Mr and Ms C say they had no choice but to instruct their solicitors to deal with their claim as 
they didnt know what was happening with the insurance cover. They incurred £1,812 in 
legal costs and disbursements.
To put things right, RSA has agreed to pay £2,000 towards the legal costs which were 
incurred during that time. It also offered £75 compensation in recognition of the stress and 
inconvenienced Mr and Ms C experienced as a result of the lack of communication.  
As Mr and Ms C remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to our service. And our 
Investigator increased the compensation to £150 which she considered to be a fair 
resolution in the circumstances. But Mr and Ms C didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there have been some failings in RSAs customer service. It accepts 
that it didnt proactively chase Mr and Ms Cs broker or keep them updated on the progress. 
So I dont need to make a finding on whether or not it did something wrong here  it did. 
What I need to decide is whether its done enough to put things right. 
To do so, Ive looked at the impact these failings have had on Mr and Ms C. Im satisfied 
they wouldve experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of not being kept 
informed about what was happening with their claim over a period of approximately five 
weeks. And for this, I think they should be compensated.
Taking into account the circumstances of the complaint and the length of time they were 
without an update, Im satisfied £150 is fair compensation for the impact RSAs actions have 
had on Mr and Ms C. I appreciate they dont agree, but compensation isnt intended to fine 
or punish RSA for wrongdoing, nor is it to compensate for the delays caused by the broker or 
by having to bring the claim itself. Its to recognise the impact experienced which, from what 
Ive seen, is limited to some distress and inconvenience of having to chase for updates.
I understand Mr and Ms C felt they had no option but to instruct their own solicitors to deal 
with the claim in the absence of a response on their claim. Whilst I appreciate they were left 
in the dark about the policy cover for a few weeks, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
there were imminent legal deadlines that needed to be met which meant they were unable to 
wait for RSA. 
In any event, RSA has agreed to pay £2,000 towards the legal costs  which covers the 
amount Mr and Ms C incurred during that time based on the figures they gave our service. 
So theyre not out of pocket and Im not aware of any other financial loss as a result of the 
delays.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £2,000 towards 
legal costs and has agreed to £150 compensation to settle the complaint and I think this 
resolution is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay £2,150 in total to 
Mr and Ms C. It should make payment within 28 days of Mr and Ms Cs acceptance of this 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman