DRN-3506272
The complaint
Mrs L says that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, has treated 
her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her credit card which paid for two sets of flights.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs L used her M&S credit card to pay for flights purchased through a 
website marketplace that Ill call Firm O for her and other passengers. She paid Firm O and 
the outward / departing flights were to be supplied by an airline Ill call Firm D. The returning 
flights were to supplied by a different airline which Ill call Firm R. There were two 
passengers booked on the departing flight and five on the return flight. Mrs L paid £1365.60 
for all the flights. 
In the end no flights were used by Mrs L or her party. Mrs L says they couldnt fly due to the 
Pandemic. Mrs L tried to get her money back from Firm O but was only partially successful 
in recouping funds. However she was still significantly out of pocket.
So she complained to M&S. It said she was out of time for a Chargeback and it didnt feel it 
should refund her under the Consumer Credit Act. Mrs L didnt agree so she brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt M&S had treated Mrs L unfairly. They felt M&S position on chargeback 
was incorrect and had M&S raised a chargeback as it should have, that it would have been 
successful on the outbound flights (only). Our Investigator concluded that M&S should 
refund Mrs L the approximate cost of the outbound flights of £97.33 and pay interest on that 
amount at an annual rate of 8% simple interest from the 27 October 2020 (date the claim 
was declined) to the date of settlement. 
M&S agreed with this position and submitted no further arguments about any material 
matters here. 
Mrs L, who says such a remedy leaves her still significantly out of pocket, thus remains 
unhappy, and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L used her M&S credit card to pay Firm O for the flights. This means M&S has certain 
responsibilities to Mrs L (if certain criteria are met) which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me 
to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary, if certain criteria are met, 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs L to hold M&S liable for breaches of contract by the 
Supplier, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again without 
going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract 
fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when 
something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
M&S is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this network has 
rules which includes giving M&S an avenue for card transactions to be disputed, namely 
through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about M&S and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mrs L fairly. This decision isnt about Firm O, Firm 
D or Firm R-none of which are parties to this decision and none of which are within this 
services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75 of this type. I hope this 
distinction is clear.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) which also have to be met before 
these issues can be considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having 
considered these I think on balance that Mrs Ls claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Mrs L) should have a contractual 
relationship with the Supplier of the services shes complaining about as well as with the 
credit provider (M&S). 
Mrs L paid Firm O, but Firm O wasnt the party supplying the flights-Firm D and Firm R were 
due to supply the flights. But Mrs L didnt pay Firm D or Firm R, but she did contract for the 
supply of the flights and contracted with Firm O for the services it provided. So in relation to 
each set of flights there were four parties namely Mrs L, Firm O, M&S, and the flight provider 
(outbound Firm D and return Firm R). So Im satisfied that there were more parties present 
than set out in the DCS requirements of s75.
Firm O acts as a marketplace and/or introducer between purchasers and suppliers. Its terms 
and conditions say its not a party to the contractual relationship in relation to the products 
and services you order on our Website. So when agreeing to use its services consumers the 
terms and conditions agreed make clear Firm Os role in the matter.
As a consequence of all of the above Im satisfied that the required relationship as set out in 
the CCA is not met and thus M&S cannot be held liable for the loss Mrs L has suffered here 
under S75.could M&S challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs L 
does here, M&S (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mrs 
L doesnt dispute that she used her M&S credit card here. Nor does she dispute the amount, 
date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think M&S couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mrs L didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
M&S is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. But ultimately the Card Scheme has the final say on 
this process. So M&S isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not, when 
going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if 
it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
M&S originally pointed to the Scheme rules about time limits to raise Chargebacks. And it 
noted that the transaction was in January 2020, but it says Mrs L didnt raise the issue with it 
until October 2020, by which time it said to Mrs L that she was significantly outside the time 
limits applicable. 
It has since concurred with our Investigator that Mrs L was actually in time because the 
applicable dates for the time limits is not from transaction date but rather from expected 
supply of the service or the cancellation thereof. So the question is, has Mrs L lost out as a 
consequence of M&S mistake?
Our investigators assessment provided evidence to show that the return flights supplied by 
Firm R actually did take place. Mrs L hasnt disputed this. But rather said she couldnt have 
flown because of the Pandemic. But the Pandemic isnt any of the parties involved fault. And 
Chargebacks can only be successful if something goes wrong in the supply of the goods or 
services to be provided. But nothing went wrong with regard to the flights supplied by Firm 
R. Mrs L bought them and Firm R supplied them, but those flight tickets were not used, and 
the flights flew. So I dont see that Firm R did anything wrong. So I dont think a chargeback 
on those flights should be successful. So although M&S got its position wrong here on these 
flights Mrs L hasnt lost out as a consequence.
Our investigators assessment provided evidence to show that the departing /outbound 
flights supplied by Firm D did not take place. So if M&S had put in a chargeback on these 
then I think it likely that those flight costs would have been refunded through the chargeback 
process.
During the course of this dispute Mrs L has not been able to provide much of the evidence 
that M&S or this service would want to see, particularly evidence around flight costs and 
correspondence received from Firm O, Firm R or Firm D. Mrs L has been repeatedly asked 
for it but has not been able to provide it. We do have the total transaction amount and what 
has been refunded to Mrs L already, due to things such as tax.
As the individual flight costs were unavailable our Investigator averaged the costs across the 
outstanding amount having taken into account the refunds received. They then researched 
the relative costs of flights between outbound and inbound and found an approximate 1:2 
ratio of such flight costs. And then applied this to the average cost of a flight (outstanding 
amount divided by number of passenger flights booked). Our Investigator concluded that Mrs 
L should be refunded £97.33 for the two flights which should have been recouped through 
chargeback as they didnt fly. Neither party has provided contrary evidence to the evidence that our Investigator put 
forward with regard to flight costs. Furthermore neither party has provided persuasive 
argument with regard to the manner of calculating redress here. I should add that coming to 
an approximate conclusion to redress is not ideal. But in the absence of so much pertinent 
evidence, and bearing in mind the need for finality, and the dearth of persuasive arguments 
regarding evidence or redress methodology, having considered everything here I think this 
approach is fair and reasonable in the round.
Mrs L points to the Pandemic and the associated issues of consequential costs of quarantine 
and that travel was limited by governments. These are all relevant arguments to what 
happened here. But ultimately M&S isnt responsible for these things. Its responsible for 
Chargeback here only for the reasons explained. And it isnt responsible for the costs of the 
flights that flew because the service Mrs L purchased was provided. The contracts Mrs L 
agreed to were only for the provision of these flights. There were no other protections or 
services provided other than these flight tickets. So it is my position that any chargeback in 
relation to the flights that took place would have been unsuccessful. And that M&S should 
refund the approximate amounts of the flights that did not take place.
I have significant empathy for Mrs L in how things have played out here subsequently in 
relation to the transaction she entered into in January 2020. And I appreciate that she has 
paid for flights she didnt use. But M&S can only be held responsible for what its responsible 
for. And that is performing its responsibilities regarding Chargeback and S75 fairly.
Putting things right
Accordingly, on receiving notice of the acceptance of this decision, I direct M&S to refund 
Mrs L the approximate cost of the outbound flights of £97.33 and pay interest on that amount 
at an annual rate of 8% simple interest from the 27 October 2020 (date the claim was 
declined) to the date of settlement.
Mrs L has made clear that she will fight M&S for as long as necessary and as
hard as necessary. And I appreciate that she feels shes lost out here. But this decision 
marks the end of our involvement in this dispute between Mrs L and M&S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc trading as M&S Bank and direct it to put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman