DRN-3040333
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave it incorrect information and 
wrongly withheld its funds after it had been dissolved.
What happened
S was dissolved in March 2020 and its director contacted HSBC from abroad. He was 
wrongly told that the account would be kept open, but it was instead closed. He was also told 
that the funds in the account had been sent to the Crown. But after S was restored to the 
register of companies in October 2020 he found that this was incorrect. And that HSBC had 
been holding the funds of S during this period. This was essential money and caused 
financial difficulties.
HSBC issued two final response letters about this complaint. It accepted that it wrongly told 
the director in April 2020 that the account would be kept open. It paid £100 in compensation. 
It also accepts that it wrongly told the director that the funds in the account had been sent to 
the Treasury Department. And it compensated S for the costs of sending documents to 
recover the money of $170 (New Zealand dollars) and paid a further $100 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything further. The director had told 
HSBC in April 2020 that S hadnt been dissolved. He was incorrectly told that the account 
could be reinstated. He was unable to access statements and was sent these. S was 
reinstated in October 2020 and the director contacted HSBC about this on 3 November 
2020. He had been wrongly told that the funds had been sent to the Treasury and made an 
application for the money to be returned. He found out that HSBC had never sent the 
money. The account was reopened on 10 November 2020. 
She said that HSBC acted in line with legislation and the error was with the misinformation. It 
hadnt blocked access to the funds. And it couldnt be responsible for the delay in the 
restoration of S to the register. She understood that the director was out of the country and 
things were more difficult because of the pandemic. But she thought that the compensation 
was proportionate to what happened.
S didnt agree. The director maintained that HSBC had lied and the process of getting funds 
back from the Crown was irrelevant here. HSBC had the money the whole time and knew 
that this was needed before the account was closed. S wanted to know how this wasnt 
blocking the money. HSBC didnt follow protocol, it lied multiple times and it chose to neglect 
a customer in a time of need. S wanted to know what legislation permitted it to do this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the difficult circumstance for the director of S. There was nearly £150,000 in the 
account and this money was needed. The process of restoring S was more difficult because 
he was out of the country and things were affected by the pandemic. And its not in dispute 
that he received incorrect information from HSBC.
Im afraid though that the position was clear. S didnt exist after it was dissolved, and HSBC 
had no basis to operate an account in S name or to disburse funds. The money was due to 
the Crown in line with The Companies Act 2006. So, wherever that money actually was it 
couldnt be paid to the director.
I consider HSBC understood the position that the director found himself in. And it says that 
based on him saying that S had been restored told him it would keep the account open. I 
understand he sees things differently, but the point is that it couldnt keep an account 
operating or pay any funds.  
HSBC accepts that the normal practice would be to send the funds to the Treasury 
Department. But the director states in the complaint form that knowing that I was attempting 
to reinstate my company  HSBC would check in during this period. HSBC said in an email 
to S of 4 November 2020 that   we ordinarily send the funds onto the Treasury once a 
company has dissolved, but as youve told us youre reinstating your company, were holding 
onto them. We can only release that back to the company once it has been reinstated and 
weve reopened your account.
As Ive said HSBC couldnt pay out this money. But I think that its particular approach here 
led at times to incorrect information being provided to the director. I dont think that was done 
deliberately or as a means of preventing the money being paid out.
In my view S had the money back within a reasonable period of telling HSBC that it had 
been restored. I am not able fairly to conclude that this would have happened any faster had 
the money been with the Crown. I agree that it is unfortunate that HSBC had made incorrect 
statements. And that once restored S paid for documents to be sent to the Treasury 
Department. 
I can only look here at the impact on S the complainant and which for a large part of the 
period as set out didnt exist. Taking into account my findings about what happened I think 
the amount of compensation that has been paid is reasonable. And so, I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anything further.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc does 
not need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman