DRN-2399030
The complaint
Mr L complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limiteds advisor (LV) told him that 
no tax would be due on his guaranteed savings plan (GSP) when it matured in 2019. He 
says he was either misled, wrongly advised or LV mistakenly sent him a chargeable gain 
certificate (in his view, gains were not taxable according to the HMRC website criteria).
What happened
LV rejected Mr Ls complaint, outlining why it believed this was a suitable recommendation. It 
said the documentation made clear that while basic rate tax was assumed to have been 
paid, meaning basic-rate taxpayers would not be subject to a taxable gain, higher-rate 
taxpayers could/would be subject to tax.
It said that based on Mr Ls income and circumstances at the time there was no reason to 
assume he was likely to be a higher-rate taxpayer when this product matured (after his 
planned retirement). Thus, it wasnt necessary for the advisor to explicitly point out the 
theoretical possibility of a chargeable gain.
An investigator at this service did not believe Mr Ls complaint should be upheld, noting:
Mr L was advised to invest £250 a month into a GSP, along with £25 a month in a 
Tax-Exempt Savings Plan (TESP), both guaranteed to pay out the minimum of the 
premiums paid in.
These were both suitably low risk investments
Mr L was also advised to invest £100 in a Stocks and Shares ISA, this was more of a 
medium-risk investment
While Mr L couldve invested his £250 a month in this tax-efficient ISA as well, she 
said this did not guarantee a return of his capital
She acknowledged that Mr L felt the advisor shouldve made clearer that the GSP 
might be subject to tax on maturity but felt this had been made sufficiently clear from 
the information hed been provided with
For example, under the heading What about tax it states that a chargeable event 
could occur and the circumstances in which this would happen. It also omits words 
such as Tax-free or Tax Exempt from the title and description of the product
The amount payable on the chargeable event is a result of how well the plan 
performed over and above the projected expectations
No-one expected the plan to perform as well as it did at the time of sale, and that 
probably explains why the advisor didnt discuss this possibility back in 2008
The GSP policy performed extremely well, and it would not be fair to penalise LV for 
this occurrence
Mr L did not agree, saying:
Financial consultants are meant to provide information that the customer needs 
before taking out products, not hide behind pages and pages of small print to avoid 
elements that are negative
Any profit over the premiums paid with this policy (obviously it is expected to give a 
profit) results in a chargeable event, this is key and should be pointed out by an 
advisor
Investing this money in the proposed ISA (which was well within his £7,200 
allowance at the time) would have been better advice and made more sense
There are also discrepancies between the reasons given by the investigator for not 
being advised about the tax implications of the GSP and those given by LV
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge that Mr L was surprised and disappointed to discover that he would 
have to pay tax on his gains. 
I dont agree with LV that the advisor was under no obligation to spell out the potential tax 
implications of this product when he made his recommendation. He made clear that two 
other recommendations offered tax-free growth and so should have explicitly stated that this 
did not apply to this product. He should have spelt out that while basic-rate tax relief would 
be deemed to have been paid (meaning there would be no charge for basic-rate payers), 
higher-rate payers could/would be liable to pay additional on any gains. 
Mr L was an inexperienced investor and I dont accept that the documentation alone was 
sufficient to put him in a fully informed position to discover this key potential drawback  and 
was therefore not in an informed position decide whether to go ahead with this investment. 
While Mr L was a basic-rate payer at the time, it was quite possible that his income in the 
year this product matured could take him into a higher rate taking account, for various 
reasons.  
LVs figures about the higher rate band at the time are not correct so Mr L was closer to the 
higher band at the time of advice; the fact that Mr L was due to retire three months before 
the product matured didnt mean he wouldnt have a full salary year for tax purposes, on top 
of which many professionals  such as teachers - receive a lump sum pension payment on 
retirement. As a specialist provider to Mr Ls profession, LV ought to have known this. 
Finally, assuming this product made any gain this would have been added to Mr Ls taxable 
income (as has happened). So there were clear and identifiable reasons why Mr L might 
have been pushed into a higher-rate bracket when the product matured.
And, just to clarify, any return would generate a chargeable gain, not merely one which 
exceeded the illustrations.
That said, my role is to consider not merely whether a business may have done something 
wrong - in this case given inadequate advice  but whether a customer has lost out as a 
result of such advice. I am not persuaded that Mr L has lost out financially.
Firstly, I am not convinced the advice itself was unsuitable for Mr Ls circumstances and 
objectives. Overall, I think the advisor was right to recommend a fairly low-risk mix of 
investments. To meet the tax-eligibility rules, a Stocks and Shares ISA needed to include a 
significant level of equities and other risky assets. A low or cautious investment such as this 
GSP would not have been eligible for ISA inclusion. In this context, I dont think it would have 
been good advice to recommend that Mr L take such a significant level of risk with all £350 
of his monthly payments. In my view, it was right to recommend he only commit £100 a month to this level of risk. So, despite the tax-free advantages, I dont think the advisor 
should have recommended putting this £250 in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
As Mr L wanted to take a small risk with this monthly sum  to try and beat savings deposits 
rates  I also dont think he should have recommended a Cash ISA. Given this, I dont there 
was an obvious alternative to recommending a product which might be subject to taxable 
gains.
Even if the advisor had fully outlined the potential tax on gains, I am not persuaded that Mr L 
would have chosen not to take out this product, nor is it obvious to me what hed have done 
instead.
That said, I have undertaken a calculation  using this services standard low-risk returns 
formula to assess how much Mr L might have earned on his monthly payments if he had 
invested in a similarly low risk product where no tax applied to any gains. This formula uses 
an equal combination of the returns as shown by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 
months maturity and that of the FTSE UK Private Investors Total Income Return Index. This 
formula is widely accepted as a reasonable basis for calculating how much a low or cautious 
risk investor might have got via a suitable product (in this case one with no tax on gains).
Mr Ls product produced a total return of £50,666 on maturity. After a deduction of 20% 
(additional higher-rate tax), Mr L received £47,132. By contrast, the formula Ive outlined 
above shows Mr Ls £250 a month would have delivered a sum of just £42,670 (without any 
deductions for tax).
So, even if I was satisfied the GSP was an unsuitable product and Mr L would have chosen, 
and been able, to find a low-risk product with tax-free gains, I do not believe there is any 
persuasive evidence to indicate he would have been better off financially. So I do not believe 
he has suffered as a result of any potentially unsuitable advice.   
Finally, I should explain that it is for HMRC to determine whether tax was due on the gains 
and whether Mr L could benefit from top-slicing. If, as Mr L believes, LV was wrong to 
produce a chargeable gain certificate and deduct tax from the maturity sum, then HMRC will 
rectify this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman