DRN-4482084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) didnt offer 
renewal of their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G held a home insurance policy, branded under a high street bank name, 
underwritten by RSA.
On 14 July 2023 RSA wrote to Mr and Mrs G to advise they wouldnt be offering renewal of 
the policy and it would lapse on 31 July 2023. RSA said this is because of Mr and Mrs Gs 
actions in a previous claim when the policy was underwritten by a different insurer.
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy RSA arent offering renewal, so they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said RSAs 
decision not to offer renewal wasnt unfair.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, Im not 
upholding their complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have held a home insurance policy, branded under a high street bank name, 
for several years. Whilst it is branded under a high street bank name, it is actually 
underwritten by an insurer. 
Each year is a new annual contract, whilst the policy has remained under the high street 
bank brand name throughout, there was a change of insurer and since 2022 the policy has 
been underwritten by RSA.
The last policy ran from 1 August 2022 to 31 July 2023. RSA took the decision not to renew 
the policy from the renewal date, and they wrote to Mr and Mrs G to explain that in advance, 
on 14 July 2023. I think that RSA gave reasonable notice to Mr and Mrs G of their intention 
not to renew the policy.
An insurer isnt obligated to provide insurance cover and is able to decide whether to offer an 
insurance policy each year or not. RSA took the decision not to renew the policy when it 
ended on 31 July 2023. This is RSA using its legitimate commercial judgement whether to 
offer a policy or not and is not something Im going to interfere with.
Mr and Mrs G have been told by RSA this decision was taken on the basis of information 
they were given by the previous insurer about Mr and Mrs Gs actions during a claim. This 
relates to that insurer not being able to make a recovery of the claim settlement from Mr and 
Mrs G despite the lost item claimed for being found. Mr and Mrs G have questioned the 
actions of the previous insurer and their handling of things. However, this complaint is about 
RSA and their decision not to renew the policy, so I cant consider the actions of the previous 
insurer as part of this complaint. If Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the previous insurer, 
theyd need to raise a complaint directly with them.
Im satisfied RSA used its legitimate commercial judgement to decide not to offer renewal of 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy, and it wrote to them giving them notice in advance of the renewal 
date. Im satisfied RSA acted fairly, and Im not going to direct them to do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman