DRN-2518293
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as C complains that New Wave Capital Limited (trading as 
Capital on Tap) unfairly applied interest to its credit card account. 
Mr U is Cs director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
C took out a credit card account with New Wave on 5 March 2020. The account had a credit 
limit of £15,000. 
On 3 April, Mr U transferred £15,000 from the credit card account into a current account. He 
set up a payment instruction to repay the entire outstanding balance when payments fell 
due. 
New Wave took a payment of £15,033.84 on 28 April. Mr U says that while he wasnt 
expecting to incur any interest for using the card, he didnt worry about this apparent charge 
too much at the time  and just assumed that the £33.84 was some sort of fee for the cash 
transfer.
But on 5 May, Mr U received a text message with the next statement balance. This was 
£390.02, which would be taken on 27 May. Mr U was concerned by this additional charge, 
as hed understood that no interest would be applicable on balances repaid within 56 days. 
So Mr U queried things with New Wave, ultimately leading to this complaint.
Addressing the complaint, New Wave said that interest had been applied in line with the 
terms of the agreement that Mr U had signed to accept. While no interest would apply to any 
card purchases if they were repaid in full each month, interest of 3.43% would apply to any 
cash withdrawals or bank transfers. New Wave thought this had been clearly explained in its 
marketing literature and said it had confirmed this when responding to the drawdown request 
and again when confirming it had been approved. 
Mr U remained concerned and asked us to look into things. He was also unhappy that 
New Wave had debited the credit card account  incurring further interest  rather than 
taking payment from the nominated bank account.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think New Wave had done 
anything wrong. She said that interest had been applied in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. She didnt think New Waves promotional material had been unclear, and 
thought it had appropriately set out that the 0% deal didnt apply to bank transfers. And she 
didnt think New Wave had done anything wrong in how it had debited Cs account.
Mr U didnt accept our investigators view. He still thought New Wave had acted unfairly, and 
said that C had been left with a higher debt than was necessary. So the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while Im sorry to disappoint Mr U as I know he feels very strongly 
about this matter, Ive reached largely the same conclusions as our investigator and for 
much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
There are effectively two ways that C could use its New Wave credit card. One was to make 
card purchases; the other was to make cash withdrawals  which include bank transfers like 
the one at issue here. 
The terms and conditions of the account set out that interest is applicable to both, at a 
variable monthly rate of 2.84% for card purchases and 3.43% for cash withdrawals  but 
interest isnt charged on card purchases if the closing balance is paid in full by the next 
payment due date. The interest-free period doesnt cover cash withdrawals or bank 
transfers. So I think that New Wave was entitled to charge interest in the way it did here, 
under the agreement that C entered into.
I understand that Mr U doesnt really dispute the terms of the agreement, but says that 
New Waves promotional material misled him into thinking that the interest-free period 
applied to all transactions. But I think the information that New Wave provided was clear 
about how the account would work. Looking at the marketing email it sent to C prior to 
opening the account, this said that the card offered up to 56 days interest-free on card 
purchases. This was accurate. And I dont think there was anything to suggest that this offer 
covered the type of cash withdrawal that C made. 
New Wave also gave C information about the interest rates that would apply when 
confirming that the application had been approved and again when the account was opened. 
It explained that a 0% rate would apply to card spend if the balance was repaid in full every 
month, otherwise a rate of 2.84% would apply to card spend and a rate of 3.43% would 
apply to cash withdrawals or bank transfers. And when the transfer request was approved, 
New Wave also advised that cash transfers accrue interest on a daily basis and that interest 
would be charged at a monthly rate of 3.43%. So I think New Wave gave C appropriate 
information about how interest would apply to cash withdrawals and bank transfers.
I understand Mr U genuinely thought the 0% rate covered all transactions on the account, so 
I can appreciate his disappointment when faced with costs he wasnt expecting. But I dont 
think New Wave did anything wrong in applying interest in the way it did, or in how it 
explained things to him  so theres no basis on which I could fairly require it to waive or 
refund any of the amounts its charged. 
Mr U is also unhappy that New Wave has debited the credit card account with the additional 
amounts that have fallen due, rather than taking payment directly from Cs bank account. But 
that is in line with how the account operates. The terms and conditions explain that any 
amounts that C became liable to pay New Wave would be debited from the account. At the 
same time, C was free to repay any amount at any time it wished. This is also in line with 
standard industry practice  its how credit card accounts typically operate. So I dont think 
New Wave has done anything wrong in this respect either. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman