DRN-3195113
The complaint
Ms R complains about her insurer, HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) increasing the premiums 
on her pet insurance policy.
This decision covers only the issue of the level of premiums on the policy. Ms R has also 
raised concerns about other aspects of the policy, but these arent part of her complaint to 
this service, so they havent been considered in this decision.
What happened
Ms R took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in April 2015, covering her dog. That meant that 
Ms R was covered for a range of conditions that might require treatment for the lifetime of 
her dog, providing she kept the policy. Ms R renewed the policy each year until April 2021, 
when the monthly premium increased from £85.98 to £167.66. 
Ms R was unhappy at such a significant increase and complained to HDI. They considered 
the complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response they noted the nature of lifetime 
policies was that the cost would increase over time as a pet got older and more likely to 
require treatment, so there was a higher risk of claims occurring. HDI also pointed to other 
factors affecting premiums, including the increasing cost and advancement in vet treatments. 
HDI said that Ms Rs premium was correct based on the information they held. However, 
they acknowledged that they hadnt made it clear to Ms R that the cost of her policy could 
increase significantly over time. While they couldnt reduce her premium, they awarded her 
£490 for trouble and upset to her by not making things clear when she took out the policy.
Ms R was unhappy at HDIs response and complained to this service, asking us to look at 
the fairness of the increase. Her main issue was the significant increase in premium (almost 
double, when shed seen the Association of British Insurers had stated that insurance 
premiums had increased by 10%). She accepted she had made, and was making, quite a lot 
of claims due to her dog suffering from arthritis and other issues. However, she thought she 
was being penalised and would accept a reasonable level of increase (but not almost 
double) on an already high premium. She wanted HDI to illustrate exactly how they 
calculated the premium increase, not just general principles behind it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that HDI was entitled to decide 
how much to charge in premiums for the cover provided by the policy. He added that 
the nature of lifetime pet insurance policies was that the cost of insuring the pet 
increases each year as the pet becomes older and more likely to become ill and 
require treatment. The investigator also noted that the cost of such policies would 
also be affected by HDIs assessment of risk, as well as the incidence of claims made 
under the policy (he noted that 14 claims had been made in the year prior to the 2021 
renewal). While better information from the start about the nature of the policy would 
have meant less of a surprise for Ms R when the premium increased, the investigator 
thought that the £490 offered to her by HDI in compensation was reasonable and so 
he wouldnt be asking HDI to do anything further.
Ms R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She didnt think it had been shown how the increase was calculated, and that the 
policy wasnt transparent [about the potential increases in premium over time] and that these 
would benefit the insurer and make the policy unaffordable. While she accepted premiums 
would increase over time (and would be larger if claims were made) she still thought it unfair 
for the premium to have increased so significantly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether HDI have acted fairly towards Ms R.
 
The main element of Ms Rs complaint is that the significant increase in her premium 
at renewal in 2021 was unfair and unreasonable. Shes also unhappy that HDI 
havent explained exactly theyve calculated the premium increase. In disagreeing 
with our investigators view, she also said the policy wasnt transparent [about the 
potential increases in premium over time] and these would benefit the insurer and 
make the policy unaffordable. 
On the main issue, the significant increase in premium at renewal in 2021, Ive noted what 
HDI have said in their final response, including the factors to which they attribute the 
significant increase. Ive also looked at the detailed underwriting information provided by HDI 
which underpins the pricing of the policy and the level of premiums. 
I want to reassure Ms R that Ive carefully considered all this information. Having done so, I 
dont think this element of the complaint should be upheld. I understand that Ms R will be 
disappointed with this, but Ill explain how I reached this conclusion.
With complaints about insurance pricing, its important that I explain our services role isnt to 
regulate the insurance industry  but to consider individual complaints. We cant tell a 
business what it should charge for insurance but can, when assessing individual complaints, 
make sure customers have been treated fairly.
 
Looking at the history of the policy, when first taken out the monthly premium was £26.46. At 
successive renewals that increased gradually by 21% to 23% each year to £85.98 in 2020 
(with a larger increase of 43% in 2018). The increase at renewal in 2021 was much larger, 
both in absolute and percentage terms. Ultimately, just because the price of an insurance 
policy has gone up, it doesnt necessarily mean something has gone wrong. But HDI needed 
to follow the principle of treating its customers fairly  which in this case meant treating Ms R 
fairly when deciding what premium to charge at renewal.
Ive also looked at the increases in the context of the claims history for the policy. In the first 
five years there were three claims, totalling less than £200. However, in the year to renewal 
in April 2021 there were 14 claims totalling £2,137. As Ms R acknowledges, claims history is 
a key factor in the cost of a policy. Its not unreasonable that a large increase in the number 
and cost of claims would have a significant impact on the premium at renewal. 
Coming back to the circumstances of Ms Rs policy and the premiums charged, wed 
expect HDI to be able to demonstrate the premium increases reflect their changing 
view of the risks and other factors. From the information provided by HDI, I can see 
that the increases reflect several factors. These include the age of her dog and as it 
became older the premium would have increased to reflect the increasing risk of 
illness (and claims associated with treatment). The second key factor is the claims 
history, particularly the sharp increase in the number and cost of claims in the year to renewal in 2021 These two factors also led to an increase in the cap which is applied 
to a premium. Put simply, this is a mechanism that caps the increase in premiums. 
Where other factors lead to premium increases, the cap tends to be loosened, 
meaning that more of a premium increase occurs. 
Based on this consideration, I dont think HDI have acted unreasonably in the way that they 
have assessed risk and used this when pricing the policy and setting premiums. 
On Ms Rs third issue, that the policy wasnt transparent about the potential increases 
in premium over time and that these would benefit the insurer and make the policy 
unaffordable, Ive looked at what the policy documents said at the time Ms R took out 
her policy. Ive also noted that HDI have accepted that the potential for future 
premium increases could have been clear (and awarded her £490 in compensation). 
Having looked at the documentation issued to Ms R at the inception of the policy, I 
agree that it doesnt set out that (for a lifetime policy) the cost will increase over time 
(or that increases could be significant). While I havent been provided with the 
information for each renewal of the policy between 2016 and 2021, I note that the 
2021 renewal email includes the following statement:
Like humans, our pets are more likely to be affected by illness as they get 
older. This means that every year your insurance premium will increase even 
if you havent made a claim. The increase will be significant if you have 
claimed.
In Ms Rs case, given the points above about the claims history, then this is 
consistent with the significant increase in premium at renewal in 2021. 
Given Ive concluded that it wasnt made clear to Ms R when she took out the policy 
that the cost would increase over time (and potentially significantly so) I think it was 
right of HDI to acknowledge that they could have been clearer on this point. While I 
still think it likely Ms R would have taken out the policy (rather than one without 
lifetime cover) together with my conclusion that I dont think HDI acted unreasonably 
in the way that they have assessed risk and used this when pricing the policy and 
setting premiums, Ive concluded that HDI have offered a reasonable sum in 
compensation for this aspect of Ms Rs complaint.
 . 
Overall, my conclusion is that HDI have not acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Ms R in the way that they have priced his policy, including the way that risk is 
assessed. They have used that risk assessment to inform their decisions on the level 
of premiums, which is a reasonable approach to take. While they could have been 
clearer about the nature of the policy and the potential for future premium increases 
when the policy was taken out, I think they acted reasonably in awarding Ms R £490 
in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman