DRN-3818247
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has declined his claim for investigation and treatment for his pet dog.
What happened
On 23 March 2022, Mr C took his dog, who Ill refer to as E, to her vet as he was 
concerned about pain she was displaying in her right hind leg. The vet noted that her right 
stifle was particularly painful and joint supplements were discussed. At a further visit on 4 
April 2022 E was limping quite badly and the vet noted that her right stifle was swollen 
compared to the left.  On 6 April, X-rays were taken of her back legs and hips. E was 
diagnosed as having bilateral cruciate disease which would require an operation. Mr C 
submitted a claim to C&G for the cost of the X-rays.
C&G declined Mr Cs claim. Its ground for doing so was that E was overweight and had 
been for some time which was recorded in her medical records. It relies on the following 
exclusion within the policy:
What is not insured?
Genera/ Exclusions
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and this 
results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended medical 
weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet;
In its final response to Mr C, C&G has acknowledged that the cause of lameness is 
multifactorial, and that:
 there have been numerous studies into the cause of cruciate disease and osteoarthritis, 
which have all noted that there are multiple factors involved, the fact remains that these 
studies have also shown that weight is one such factor. Studies in dogs show that being 
overweight not only increases the occurrence of osteoarthritis but also the severity of the 
disease.
C&G also quoted the following from the Vetsnow website:
There are several risk factors for lameness. These include your dogs breed. Frequent, 
vigorous activity may also be a factor, as is your dogs weight. Overweight dogs are more 
prone to developing some of the conditions that can lead to lameness."
In response to C&Gs rejection of his claim, Mr C obtained further information from Es vet.
 The vet stated:
During my consultations I referred to [Es] weight, as always when you deal with joint 
diseases, overweight is a concern as would aggravate the problem, but the fact [E] is 
overweight doesn't equal with the fact that her weight was the one to trigger the disease. 
It is true the fact she managed to lose weight till the day she came in for Xrays was 
beneficial as the body put less pressure on the joints but this doesn't mean her problem 
with her cruciate ligaments is gone and just because she will hopefully loose more weight 
will fix the problem.
The vet also stated, in a second opinion:
It is very true that [E] been overweight at some point but I do believe the main cause for 
her problem is genetic. It is hard to say if her weight caused more damage to the 
ligament/joint but is very true her symptoms ( lameness, pain) were more pronounced 
while she was overweight. We don't know if it is a partial or full rupture of the ligament or 
how the condition progressed since been diagnosed, but loosing weight has helped to 
reduce the severity of symptoms.
In response to this, C&G maintained its position that as weight was a contributing factor to 
Es cruciate problem, it was unable to overturn its original decision to decline Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigators view, after receiving the second 
opinion from Es vet, was that Es weight wasnt a deciding factor as to whether E needed 
surgery or not, and that no matter what Es weight was she would still need the surgery, so 
he thought it was unfair of C&G to decline the claim.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view. It referred to various authorities supporting a 
link between lameness and a dog being overweight. These included reference to fat itself 
contributing to inflammation and potentially influencing the bone changes associated with 
osteoarthritis. 
C&G has also introduced a further ground upon which to decline Mr Cs claim. It noted that  
Es medical records on 25 July 2019 showed that E was lame on her left fore-limb for a day. 
It says that as lameness had been identified in 2019 for which no claim had been submitted, 
Mr Cs current claim was time limited by a term of his policy. This term requires claims for 
any condition to be brought within 12 months from the date the first symptom and/or clinical 
sign of that condition was noticed, or treatment started. A claim for lameness in 2022 was 
therefore out of time.
As C&G continues to maintain that Mr Cs claim results from E being overweight, his 
complaint has been referred to me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the exclusion upon which C&G relies to deny Mr Cs claim on the grounds of 
Es weight. In my view for this exclusion to be fairly applied there must be some persuasive 
evidence that Es obesity was the cause of her cruciate problem rather than just a 
contributing factor which exacerbated the symptoms.  
C&G accepts that there are multiple possible causes for cruciate issues and a dogs weight 
is just one of these, although excessive weight can contribute to symptoms being 
exacerbated. It has said:
Whilst we appreciate that weight is not the sole cause, as your vets have confirmed that 
the weight is a contributing factor, we would be unable to overturn our original decision.If there are multiple possible causes, I consider that its unfair for C&G to identify one 
possible cause in the absence of medical evidence and rely upon it to deny a claim.
Ive looked at the additional information provided by C&G and the links it has provided to 
various relevant on-line articles. I note that C&G has quoted selectively from the Vetsnow 
website in omitting the following which appears in the section it quoted:
Some of the ailments and muscular diseases that can cause lameness are passed 
from generation to generation.
Of the various potential underlying causes, Es vet has identified genetics as, in her view, 
being  the main cause of Es cruciate problem  Ive quoted what shes said above. So in the 
absence of any medical evidence from C&G as to any other underlying cause,  I consider 
that it is fair to rely on the professional opinion of Es treating vet.
Im therefore of the view that C&G has unfairly applied the exclusion it relies upon.
Turning to the other ground that C&G has latterly introduced that Mr Cs claim is time barred 
on the ground that lameness was identified in 2019, I dont consider that a rejection on this 
ground is reasonable. Theres no evidence as to what caused the lameness in 2019, which 
in any event was very temporary and was noted in Es front leg. Theres also no evidence 
that it was in any way related to the cause of Es back leg lameness in 2022. 
In conclusion, Im not persuaded that C&Gs rejection of Mr Cs claim is fair or reasonable 
and Im going to require it to settle his claim with interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Mr Cs complaint.
 
I require that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited settle Mr Cs claim 
subject to any other term of his policy.
I also require it to pay Mr C interest on any sum paid to him at the simple rate of 8% from the 
date of his claim until payment is made to him.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman