DRN-3192744
The complaint
Ms B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited wont cover her home emergency claim
for repairs to her central heating at her let property 
What happened
Ms B had a Home Care policy with British Gas for her let property. This covered, amongst
other things, the annual service and repairs to the central heating. She had an annual
service carried out in January 2020. In November 2020 she decided that she no longer
wanted to continue with the British Gas policy, so it was arranged that the policy would be
cancelled from 27 November. It was agreed that she was owed a service so British Gas
arranged for this to take place on 11 December.
Ms Bs tenant asked the engineer to check the radiators as theyd been having trouble with
them. The engineer found that three of the radiators werent working and would need to be
replaced. But as the policy had been cancelled British Gas advised it wouldnt be paying for
the replacement radiators as the fault should have been reported while the policy was still
active.
Ms B said that the radiators wouldnt have suddenly seized up in between cancelling the
policy and the service. She believed that at the previous service in January 2020 the
engineer didnt check the radiators as required under the policy. The tenant said furniture
would have had to be moved and it wasnt. Ms B believed British Gas was at fault so it
should be liable for three radiators. She had all the radiators replaced and sought to recover
the cost of three radiators for the total sum of £862.80. British Gas still said it wasnt liable.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think British Gas was liable for not 
having picked up the problem with the radiators at an earlier annual service. But I said that 
the radiators most likely became faulty during the time they were on cover, so British Gas 
should pay Ms Bs cost for replacing three radiators.
British Gas accepted my findings.
Ms B also accepted my findings, though pointed out that she would have expected British 
Gas to pick up the problem with the radiator bleed valves without the tenant having to draw it 
to its engineers attention. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
There are essentially two parts to the policy that are relevant to Ms Bs claim 1) the annual
service and 2) the cover for central heating repairs.
annual service
If British Gas failed to carry this out properly as a result of which a fault went undetected or
went on to cause further damage then it is potentially liable. Ms B says that at the annual
service in January 2020 the engineer failed to check the radiators. Her tenant told her that
the radiators wouldnt have been checked as they would have had to move furniture. It was
only when they mentioned that the radiators werent working at the December 2020 service
that they were checked. Ms B has provided a copy of the checklists for the January 2019
and 2020 services which say the radiators were checked. She believes they werent.
Given that the service report is only a checklist with ticked boxes (unless faults are identified)
its not possible to say in any detail what happened during the services. But I dont think the
tenants recollection is reliable. If as asserted by Ms B there were problems with the
radiators before the January 2020 service I would have expected the tenant to draw the
engineers attention to them. As they did at the December service. At that time of year the
radiators are likely to have been on.
The other point is what sort of check the engineer would have been expected to make.
British Gas says this is a visual check, essentially to see if the radiators are working and not
leaking. I think thats a reasonable thing to do. Whilst Ms Bs brother in law mentions
checking the bleed valve, if the radiator was on and not leaking I cant see that this would
have formed part of the service. And, as Ive said, the tenant didnt report any problems with
the radiators until the December 2020 service.
As regards the December 2020 service whether or not British Gas should have carried this
out is, in my view, irrelevant. I think it was carried out as part of the policy. Although that
doesnt mean that Ms B would have been automatically covered for issues found during the
service.
I dont think British Gas was at fault for the problems with the radiators not being discovered
earlier.
central heating cover
The policy covered Ms B for her central heating as follows:
All repairs to the heat and hot water system on your property, for example:
expansion tank, radiators, bypass and radiator valves;

A replacement of parts of your central heating if we cant repair them.
I think its clear that the central heating system needed repair  the engineers note following
the service said that three radiators werent working and would need to be replaced. The
reason for British Gas not covering this repair is that the policy had been cancelled. More
specifically it said:
if the faults were not reported during the time period you held the policy with us then we
would not repair or replace the radiators through said policy.
Ive read through the policy and I cant find any requirement that the claim must be reported
to British Gas while the policy was active. I think the normal principle of insurance must
apply here. That is, if the claim arose during the term of the policy then the insurer would be
liable to cover it. We dont know for certain when the claim arose but I think it most likely that
the radiators ceased to work before the policy was cancelled rather than during the 14 days
between the cancellation and the service. The policy itself had been active since at least
February 2015, so its most likely that the claim arose sometime between then andNovember 2020.
This means that in my view British Gas should cover the repairs by paying for the
replacement of the three radiators. I note Ms B has had all the radiators replaced, but has
shown us a quote for replacement of three radiators. I think it reasonable that British Gas
should pay the figure set out in that quote, that is £862.80, less the £50 excess under the
policy, a net figure of £812.80, together with interest.
I note what Ms B says about the bleed valves. However I accept that the service consisted of 
a visual inspection, and I havent seen sufficient evidence about the inspection of the 
radiators at previous services.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings, I have no further comments to make. 
Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision. 
Putting things right
I require British Gas to pay to Ms B £812.80 in settlement of her claim. It should add simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date Ms B paid the invoice which includes that cost until it 
reimburses her.
British Gas Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from
any interest paid. Should Ms B request it, it should provide her with a certificate showing how
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim it.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman