DRN-1307558
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Lloyds Bank Plc dealt with his request to transfer money to an 
account he held elsewhere.
What happened
On 21 September 2019 Mr J contacted Lloyds to ask it to set up a new recipient on his 
classic account. The new recipient was an account Mr J held elsewhere, which he wanted to 
transfer around £30 to. However, the representative he dealt with transferred around £30 to 
an internal Lloyds account held with collections in error.
The money that was transferred in error couldnt be returned to Mr J immediately. So, he 
was out of pocket until the funds were refunded, which took place on 23 September 2019. 
He wasnt able to make a duplicate transfer to his account elsewhere due to insufficient 
funds in his classic account. And he couldnt borrow the funds he needed from family or 
friends. Mr J said this impacted on him because he was unemployed and needed that 
money to attend a job interview, which he was unable to travel to as a result of what 
happened.
Mr J wasnt happy with this and complained to Lloyds. After it investigated it accepted it had 
made an error in how it processed Mr Js transfer request and that he had been 
inconvenienced as a result. So, it credited his account with £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. It also paid him £36 to cover the cost of his calls to Lloyds in 
trying to resolve this matter.
But Mr J was unhappy with the amount of compensation Lloyds had paid him. He felt the 
sum paid didnt adequately reflect his experience and the time it had taken him to resolve the 
error Lloyds had made. So, he thought it should pay more and referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator assessed the evidence Mr J and Lloyds had provided but didnt uphold this 
complaint. While they empathised with Mr J they didnt think that Lloyds needed to do 
anything more here. They thought that the compensation it had already paid was appropriate 
and fair. But Mr J disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr J and Lloyds that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.I can see Mr J feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes 
said to both us and Lloyds. And thats not surprising. I can appreciate how upsetting it must 
have been for him not to have had his funds returned immediately and to have been unable 
to travel to his job interview due to the error Lloyds made. 
Lloyds has already accepted it was responsible for what happened. So, the issue here is 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive 
considered things from both sides. I realise that it must have been frustrating and 
inconvenient for Mr J not to have had his fund refunded immediately. But I think that Lloyds 
promptly investigated what happened and acted correctly in accepting responsibility. 
Lloyds has paid Mr J a total of £111 to compensate him for the impact its mistake had. Its 
clear he doesnt think this adequately reflects his inconvenience and experience. But, Im 
afraid I have to tell Mr J that I agree with our investigators view. Im persuaded that £111 is 
a fair amount of compensation for Lloyds to pay for the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered. Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to what our investigators already told Mr 
J. I think they set out the position very clearly and thoroughly.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Lloyds to pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mr J was caused. The amount its already paid Mr J 
is towards the lower end of the range for the category that this service would describe as 
moderate. I think thats a fair description of the difficulties Mr J had here. And Ill explain 
why I dont think they warrant a higher figure. 
Im persuaded that this was all resolved relatively easily and quickly without Mr J needing to 
spend a great deal of time communicating with Lloyds. Im satisfied it accepted responsibility 
for its error quickly and candidly within a couple of days of the mistake taking place. And Im 
pleased to see that Mr Js funds were returned to his account within two days of them 
debiting. 
Mr J says Lloyds error cost him an employment opportunity but theres no evidence that if 
he had attended the job interview, using the funds hed earmarked as his travel expenses, 
hed have secured the position he was interviewing for. Im not seeking to downplay the 
difficulties or frustrations Mr J had  far from it. But I have to base my decision on actual 
evidence rather than speculation. 
Having thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr J, Im satisfied that the £75 
trouble and upset award already paid by Lloyds is a reasonable amount, which is in line with 
our approach in similar scenarios. Im also persuaded that the £36 payment Lloyds made 
towards Mr Js telephone expenses is a reasonable sum to recognise the cost of any phone 
calls he may have made in trying to resolve his complaint. I havent seen any evidence that 
shows he incurred expenses over and above that amount. So, I cant fairly say a higher 
award is warranted here.
So, while Mr J may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation Lloyds has already 
paid fairly recognises the impact its error had in the overall circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr J will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
J any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman