DRN-4455578
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr L complain that Vitality Health Limited didnt pay a claim they made on their 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H consulted a Vitality GP (VGP). The VGP recommended that Mrs H attended the 
accident and emergency department due to her symptoms. Mrs H was admitted to hospital 
for several days. They claimed for the NHS cash benefit provided by the policy. 
Vitality declined the claim on the basis that no NHS cash benefit was payable for admission 
in an emergency. However, they did offer £100 compensation in their final response letter for 
customer service issues including issuing a claim form unnecessarily, delays and lack of 
responses. They also offered to pay the cost of the GP completing the claim form upon 
receipt of an invoice. Unhappy, Mrs H and Mr L complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended Vitality increased the 
compensation to £250. However, he thought the claim had been fairly declined. 
Vitality accepted the investigators recommendation. Mrs H and Mr L didnt agree. In 
summary, they didnt agree that Mrs H had been admitted as an emergency and that it was 
routine. They didnt think it was fair for Vitality to rely on the exclusion and said that theyd 
breached rules and regulations. Mrs H and Mr L also referred to legislation and case law in 
support of their position. They also said the compensation was paid for a different reason.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
The NHS hospital cash benefit is only available for treatment that would have been 
eligible under your plan had you decided to be treated privately. If you are admitted 
to hospital in an emergency, no benefit will be payable for any part of the admission. 
If you choose to transfer to a private hospital for part of your treatment, there is no 
benefit payable for any of the nights you spent as a non-paying NHS patient. If you 
are admitted as an in-patient after midnight, then no benefit is payable for that first 
night spent in hospital.    
There is also a general exclusion for emergency treatment which is defined as: 
Treatment in an Accident & Emergency unit or other urgent care centre 
Any admission to hospital that was scheduled less than 24 hours in advance. 
I think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable. Im not directing Vitality to do anything 
further to put things right. I say that because: 
I think that it was reasonable for Vitality to conclude Mrs H received emergency 
treatment. She discussed her symptoms with VGP who recommended she attended 
the accident and emergency department. Mrs H presented there and was 
subsequently admitted. I dont think was routine treatment as Mrs H and Mr L have 
suggested. I dont find their representations that this wasnt an emergency 
persuasive. 
I have considered that Mrs H was recommended to attend the hospital by VGP. But I 
dont think this means Vitality have acted unreasonably by declining the claim. VGP 
made this recommendation due to the symptoms Mrs H was experiencing. And she 
was diagnosed and treated at the hospital for several days. 
I do think the definition of emergency treatment applies. Its a general exclusion 
which applies to the whole policy. So, I do think it applies to the NHS cash benefit 
section. And, in any event, the NHS cash benefit section makes it clear there is no 
cover for emergency admissions. 
I think Vitality have demonstrated to the required standard of proof that there was no 
cover under the policy for Mrs Hs stay in the NHS hospital. 
Mr L has said that hes not received an Insurance Product Information Document as 
required by ICOBS. Thats not something he raised in his initial complaint to Vitality. 
Thats a different document to a quotation. And, in any event, Im persuaded that 
Vitality have fairly relied on the policy terms. 
Im satisfied that Mrs H and Mr L were given enough information to decide if the 
policy was right for them. I think the information was sufficiently clear, fair and not 
misleading. If the NHS cash benefit or cover for emergency treatment was 
particularly important to Mrs H and Mr L they also had the opportunity to cancel the 
policy within the cooling off period. Its also not uncommon for private medical 
insurance policies to limit cover for emergency admissions or to have similar 
exclusions. 
Vitality acknowledged that Mrs H and Mr L didnt receive good service. Mr L says the 
£100 compensation was because Vitality alleged Mrs H wasnt eligible because shed 
not been registered with a GP for five years, but this wasnt in the terms and 
conditions. Thats not reflected in Vitalitys final response letter. But, overall, I still 
think the award of £250 fairly reflects the impact of Mrs H and Mr Ls distress and 
inconvenience. That includes the distress and inconvenience of being given incorrect 
information, having to complete a claim form unnecessarily and delays. 
Putting things right
Vitality needs to put things right by paying Mrs H and Mr L £250 compensation, inclusive of 
£100 theyve already offered. 
My final decision
Im partly upholding Mrs H and Mr Ls complaint against Vitality Health Limited and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman