DRN-1395032
The complaint
Mr W complains that Great Lakes Reinsurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
Mr Ws represented by his son.
What happened
Mr W booked a fly-cruise holiday in 2017 and had taken out insurance through a broker to 
cover the trip. He was due to travel in late May 2018. Mr W had a pacemaker fitted a few 
weeks before he was due to travel and suffered complications due to the surgery. He got in 
touch with the broker on 17 May 2018 to update it about his change in health. The policy 
insurer confirmed it was no longer able to insure Mr W, although it did tell Mr W it would 
consider a cancellation claim. Mr W still planned to travel though. So the broker cancelled 
his existing policy and passed him through to its sister company for a medical screening to 
see if it was able to offer Mr W a new policy.
During the screening process, Mr W was asked some questions about his health, including 
whether hed been advised against travelling by his doctor. Mr W said he hadnt. Ultimately, 
Mr W was offered a single trip policy to cover his trip. This new policy was insured by Great 
Lakes.
Unfortunately, Mr W remained unwell and was advised not to travel by his GP. So he made 
a cancellation claim on his travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes investigated Mr Ws claim. It asked for information from Mr Ws GP. The GP 
stated that Mr Ws cardiologist had told him on 16 May 2018 that he wasnt fit to fly. This was 
the day before Mr W had taken out the policy. Mr W had said during medical screening that 
he hadnt been advised against travel. But Great Lakes felt Mr W had been advised against 
travel at this point. So it turned down his claim.
Mr Ws son was unhappy with Great Lakes response and he complained. He said Mr W 
hadnt been advised against all travel until 25 May 2018. Mr W had been planning to get to 
the cruise departure point abroad by a different route which didnt involve flying. Great Lakes 
maintained its stance, so Mr Ws son asked us to look into Mr Ws complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She explained that Great 
Lakes had asked Mr W a clear question about whether hed been advised not to travel. And 
given the available medical evidence showed Mr W had been told he wasnt fit to fly before 
he took out the new policy, she didnt think hed taken reasonable care when he answered it. 
Great Lakes told us wouldve never offered Mr W a policy if itd known hed been told he 
wasnt fit to fly. So she thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Ws claim.
Mr Ws son disagreed. He said at no point during Mr Ws admission had he been told he 
wasnt fit to fly. The dates on the GPs letter wouldve tied-in with Mr Ws discharge notes. 
His father had answered Great Lakes questions to the best of his knowledge and belief and 
Great Lakes hadnt asked Mr W for clarification about his answers.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Ws claim. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr W that while Ive only summarised the detailed submissions 
thatve been provided on his behalf, Ive read and considered everything hes said and told 
us.
Insurers have a duty to handle claims fairly and promptly. And they mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered all of the available evidence and the relevant 
rules and legislation to decide whether I think Great Lakes met its regulatory obligations.
When Mr W took out his policy with Great Lakes, he was asked information about himself, 
his medical conditions and his trip. Great Lakes used this information to decide whether to 
offer Mr W cover.
Great Lakes says that Mr W didnt correctly answer a question he was asked during the 
medical screening. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr Ws claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to correctly answer 
an insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive thought carefully 
about what Mr W was asked when he took out the policy.
One of the questions Mr W was asked was whether he was travelling against a doctors 
advice. Mr W answered no. And he said that doctors were pretty vague on these sorts of 
things.
Great Lakes maintains that Mr W shouldve answered yes to this question, as it says his 
treating doctor had advised him against flying. So Ive looked closely at the available medical 
evidence and considered Mr Ws testimony to decide whether I think he took reasonable 
care to answer this question.
Mr Ws son said that Mr W was told before the pacemaker surgery that he wouldnt be fit to 
fly for seven days after it. This time wouldve expired before Mr W took out the policy. But it 
was the complications of the surgery thatd led to Mr W not being able to travel. And during 
his last appointment with the treating cardiologist before Mr W took out the policy, his fitness 
to fly hadnt been discussed. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ws fitness to fly wasnt discussed with him before he was 
discharged. But I have to place significant weight on the medical information thats been 
provided. Thats because its been completed by the doctors responsible for providing Mr 
Ws care. And I also need to think about whats been included on the claim form. I can see 
this form states that Mr W was advised against flying on 16 May 2018  the day before he took out the new policy. The GP also stated that Mr W had a follow up with his cardiologist 
and was advised not to fly.
The GPs statement on the claim form was further clarified in a follow-up letter that was sent 
to Great Lakes in September 2018. This says: (Mr W) was advised by his cardiologist, while 
he was an in-patient that he should not fly. This is documented on his discharge summary.
Based on the medical evidence I have, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr 
W had been told he wasnt fit to fly before he called up and bought the new policy. Especially 
as it seems hed suffered complications during his pacemaker surgery. 
Mr Ws son told us Mr W hadnt been planning to fly to his destination point when he took out 
the policy, hed been planning to travel by other routes. He hadnt been advised against all 
travel until 25 May 2018. Ive thought about this. But I can see that Mr Ws itinerary stated 
hed be flying to the cruise departure point to take his flight. So I think, given the nature of 
Great Lakes question, it wouldve been reasonable for him to explain to the call handler that 
he wasnt fit to fly, although he was fit to travel by other means at that point and that was 
how he was planning to get to the departure point. Or, given what his GP said about the 
cardiologists advice, to at least ask Great Lakes further questions about what it meant by 
travelling against a doctors advice. I think this wouldve ultimately prompted Mr W to tell 
Great Lakes that he wasnt fit to fly.
I dont think Mr W deliberately sought to mislead Great Lakes or was reckless when he went 
through medical screening. But based on the available medical evidence, I dont think he 
took reasonable care to make sure he answered Great Lakes questions correctly.
Overall, I think Mr W did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think Great 
Lakes is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. 
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, an insurer is entitled to re-underwrite 
the policy from the start as if it had all the information it wanted to know. In this case, it has 
provided evidence to show it would never have offered Mr W a policy if itd known hed been 
told he wasnt fit to fly.  This means I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Ws 
claim.
Because Great Lakes has said it would never have offered Mr W any cover and because I 
dont think he deliberately sought to mislead it, this means hes entitled to a refund of the 
premium he paid. Great Lakes has now confirmed it will refund Mr Ws premium to him. 
Great Lakes should now arrange this payment directly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that it was fair for Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to turn down Mr Ws claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman