DRN-2954257
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) is holding her liable 
for an ATM withdrawal made using Mr Ss credit card, who is an additional cardholder on 
Mrs Ss account.  Mr S says he didnt make this withdrawal, so consequently it wasnt 
authorised by Mrs S.
Mrs S is represented by Mr S in this complaint.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
Mrs S holds an account with M&S.  Her husband, Mr S, is an additional cardholder on her 
account.
Mr S disputes a £200 ATM withdrawal  plus charges  made using his card on 29 October 
2019.  His position, broadly, is that he made a purchase in a M&S store on the same day 
but, didnt authorise the ATM withdrawal.  He says he doesnt know how to make ATM cash 
withdrawals, which is something his wife does with her debit card.  He suggests his card 
couldve been scammed somehow in the M&S store and then used to make the withdrawal.
In short, M&S says it couldnt proceed with Mrs Ss claim because it was out of time under 
Mastercard regulations.  It says its easy to get cards mixed up and withdraw cash using a 
credit card in error, instead of a debit card.  Finally, having reviewed cash transactions on 
Mrs Ss account, M&S says it could see that previous cash withdrawals had been made  
although due to the passage of time, it couldnt confirm the dates.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs S referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  In board summary, 
he said if card details are stolen or a card is otherwise cloned, its not possible for a cards 
chip to be cloned and used.  He considered it unlikely in the circumstances that an unknown 
third party made the withdrawal using Mr Ss card.  Our investigator also thought that the 
single withdrawal didnt fit the known patterns of fraudster behaviour.
Mr S responded asking for some clarity around the card which was used to make the 
withdrawal, as our investigator had quoted the account number in his assessment, rather 
than a card number.  Mr S also wanted to know the time of the withdrawal and the M&S in-
store purchase he made on the same day.  M&S provided information showing that Mr Ss 
card was used to make the withdrawal first, and then used again to make a M&S in-store 
purchase for £4.75 on the same day.  Our investigator communicated this to Mr S  sending 
him an extract of his card statement  and said that his view of the complaint remained the 
same.
Mr S responded maintaining that he didnt authorise the ATM withdrawal and reiterated his 
points explaining why.  Regarding the card statement, Mr S said he didnt make the £4.75 
transaction.  He also noticed a £32 credit which took place between the withdrawal and the 
£4.75 transaction.  Mr S explained that the credit was for items which were returned.  He 
argued that it was the earlier purchase of these items which had to be ordered and delivered 
to the store, which disclosed his card and PIN to a third party.  Mr S added that he is 
prepared to provide a sworn affidavit in this matter.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
M&Ss correspondence
Ive considered the initial correspondence from M&S to Mr and Mrs S prior to our services 
involvement.  From what Ive seen, it appears that the reason M&S was referring to 
Mastercard regulations at the time, was because it was treating Mr and Mrs Ss concerns as 
a chargeback.  M&S was correct to say that its now too late to raise a chargeback claim.  
However, I think M&S shouldve dealt with the withdrawal as a disputed transaction, rather 
than a chargeback.  That said, this makes no material difference to this complaint, and Im 
satisfied that M&S has provided our service with the correct evidence to consider things.
Disputed ATM withdrawal
I acknowledge Mr S says he is prepared to provide an affidavit.  However, our service is an 
informal alternative to the courts, so we dont have the power to take evidence under oath, 
nor would we treat an affidavit any differently to regular testimony.  Instead, we review all the 
evidence that has been provided to us to decide whether a financial institution has acted 
fairly in the circumstances.
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 
Regulations).  In short, they state, amongst other things, that a payment service provider (in 
this case, M&S) is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  
However, M&S can hold Mrs S liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests, 
that its more likely than not, that she made or otherwise authorised them, for example, 
through an additional cardholder on her account.  Where credit is involved, as is the case 
here, the 2017 Regulations make provision for the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to apply in 
place of certain regulations of the 2017 Regulations, including those provisions which govern 
the apportionment of liability in unauthorised transactions.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence M&S has provided that Mr Ss genuine card was 
used to make the withdrawal concerned.  I acknowledge that our investigator initially referred 
to Mrs Ss account number in his assessment.  However, he then clarified with M&S that it 
was indeed Mr Ss card which was used to make the withdrawal, which our investigator 
communicated to Mr S by email sent on 1 July 2021.  So, I will now consider whether the 
withdrawal was made by Mr S and so consequently authorised by Mrs S.
Mr S says he didnt make the withdrawal, nor did he allow anyone else to do so on his 
behalf.  So, Ive thought about whether a third party made the withdrawal.  Having done so, 
Im not persuaded this happened.  Ill explain why.I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr Ss card was compromised.  He confirmed to 
our investigator that his card never left his possession.  With that in mind, I find it unlikely 
that a third party wouldve taken the risk to effectively steal Mr Ss card, use it to make the 
withdrawal and then take a further risk by returning the card to him  all without Mr Ss 
knowledge.  Even if I could accept this happened, it wouldnt explain how the third party 
knew Mr Ss PIN to be able to make the withdrawal at the ATM.  I say this because Mr S has 
confirmed he has his PIN memorised and that its a random set of numbers.  So, I consider it 
unlikely that his PIN couldve been guessed.
Further, I dont consider the withdrawal to be indicative behaviour of an opportunistic 
fraudster.  I say this because usually Id expect a fraudster to utilise the full balance of a card 
 making several transactions over a short period.  This would allow them to maximise gains 
before the account holder could notice the transactions and block their card.  However, in 
this instance, Mr Ss card was used to make a single ATM withdrawal of £200  which is 
unlike an opportunistic fraudster.
Mr S says his card couldve been scammed somehow in the M&S store and then used to 
make the withdrawal.  If the suggestion is that his card couldve been cloned, then I should 
say that our service hasnt seen any examples of cases where a chip on a card has been 
successfully cloned, which wouldve been required to make the withdrawal.  In any event, Im 
not persuaded, on balance, this happened in the circumstances of this case  either on the 
29 October 2019, or before  for the reasons already given.
I can see Mr S claims he didnt make the in-store transaction of £4.75 on 29 October 2019.  
This is something Mr and Mrs S will have to raise with M&S separately, as this complaint is 
about the £200 ATM withdrawal.  
I acknowledge Mr S strongly denies making the withdrawal and says he doesnt know how to 
withdraw cash from an ATM.  However, taking all the above factors together, I consider its 
more likely than not, that he did.  It follows that Im satisfied Mrs S authorised the withdrawal.  
So, I will not be asking M&S to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman