DRN-2725714
The complaint
Mr A says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold him a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a loan.
I can see Mr A has complained about a number of PPI policies and that Santander has 
agreed to repay him for these. So, to be clear, this decision is about the PPI he took out with 
a loan of £11,950 in July 2002. It cost 41.71 per month.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this case and said this complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr A 
didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint. 
Im very sorry to disappoint him.
I can understand that Mr A thinks that because his other PPI complaints  apparently similar 
in nature  have been upheld by the business, then this this one should too. However, I cant 
say why Santander has decided to uphold the other PPI complaints Mr A had, but what I can 
say is that certain time periods did have different PPI sale rules applying to them and the 
type of paperwork used during certain sales, for example, did frequently change. We also 
know that some banks do take these types of situation into account when deciding whether 
or not to uphold complaints directly from consumers like Mr A.
Ive looked into this complaint  the one from July 2002. We no longer have the 
documentation showing Mr A definitely consented to the PPI, but given how long ago 2002 
was, this isnt particularly unusual. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
However, I do have access to the credit agreement used in this case and I note that under 
the terms and conditions, the PPI is described as Optional Payment Protection Insurance. 
As this is set out under a banner which says IMPORTANT  YOU SHOULD READ THIS 
CAREFULLY, I do think Mr A had an opportunity here to see that the PPI wasnt something 
he needed to have.
Santander also sent me a copy of an example of the type of application form Mr A would 
have possibly used for the loan. Again, I cannot be certain about this since its uncertain how 
the sale was carried out. Nevertheless, I know forms like the one Ive been sent was used at 
the time for both branch sales and those carried out by telephone. The form has a yes and 
a no option about PPI, so I think its more likely than not that Mr A would have been at least 
able to see that he had a choice. He says he was told he had to have the PPI, but these 
things Ive referred to above do tend to point the other way.
However, I completely accept that all this evidence does is make it more likely, rather than 
certain, that Mr A chose to have PPI with this loan. But Im afraid thats all we have to go on 
here. Mr A implies that because he took out PPI on other loans, it must have always been 
presented as obligatory. But I dont agree we can say this  the fact he had PPI on other 
loans could mean lots of things, including that he wanted to routinely have protection. I cant 
say why Mr A took out the PPI in this case, but the evidence is more supportive of his July 
2002 policy being something he chose to have. 
Santander accepts this probably was an advised sale. This means it had a duty to ensure 
the PPI was suitable for Mr As circumstances. 
I think it was suitable.
I agree Mr A would have had some sick pay with his job and even that it may have been 
relatively generous. Ive also thought carefully about the other financial means he says he 
had at that time. But overall, I dont think any of these things make the PPI unsuitable for 
him. The policy could have paid out a monthly sum of £259.69 to for up to 12 months for 
unemployment and longer for disability, in some cases. This was to support him paying back 
what was clearly a large loan. I think the consequences of him not being able to work could 
have been serious for him, so having insurance could well have been of use over the 66 
months it was initially designed to last for.
Ive also thought about the savings Mr A said he had. I havent seen direct evidence of the 
claimed savings existing at the same time as this loan. But in any event, as Ive said, this 
loan was substantial and having some savings  or some help from a family member  
simply doesnt equate to the formal protection insurance like this might offer. So I simply 
cant say that recommending the PPI to him in these circumstances was wrong.
Santander still had a duty to provide Mr A with clear enough information about the PPI policy 
so he could make an informed decision about whether or not he wanted to go ahead and 
buy it. I accept Santander might not have done everything right. However, the credit 
agreement did set out the cost of the cover clearly enough, in my view. I think hed have 
been able to make an informed decision about what he wanted to do.
I do accept this is a somewhat unusual situation where Santander has upheld quite a few 
PPI complaints relating to Mr As affairs, but not this complaint. I can understand he finds 
this odd and Im not able to justify, or even comment on, why it took the course it did.
We have only limited evidence about the July 2002 PPI sale. What we do have though 
points to it being more likely than not that Mr A consented to buy the cover in question. Id 
like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt he genuinely feels now that this policy was 
mis-sold to him. However, for the reasons Ive stated, Im not upholding Mr As mis-sale 
complaint.
My understanding is that Santander will now settle the other matters directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr As complaint about the July 2002 mis-
sale. 
I dont require Santander UK Plc to do anything else in relation to this sale.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman