DRN-1514198
 
The complaint
Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons. 
Mr B signed a separate application form specifically for the PPI. The mortgage offer also 
said hed asked RBS to arrange this and instructed him to check the cover was right. So, I 
think RBS made Mr B aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it. 
RBS recommended the PPI to Mr B, and it seems to have been right for him based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. It appears he wouldve struggled to keep up with 
his mortgage repayments if hed been unable to work. I dont think relying on his partner to 
pay his mortgage is guaranteed  as that would depend on their circumstances, which could 
change.
Its possible that RBS couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr B would still have bought it. 
Its possible RBS didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr B doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments, including what hes said about being pressured 
into taking the PPI. But these points dont change my conclusion. He says he was coached 
in how to answer the questions on his application and told it would affect his mortgage 
application if he didnt take PPI. 
However, he agreed to take the PPI at the time, and didnt complain about it until almost 20 
years later. He now says that at the time he didnt need it or want it and told the adviser this. That being the case, Im surprised he didnt complain sooner, for example once his mortgage 
had been granted and his property purchase completed. 
It may be that his perception of what happened has changed over the years. That would be 
understandable given how long ago it was. But I dont think it would be reasonable of me to 
uphold the complaint solely based on his recollection of what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman