DRN-2917546
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Plc wont refund a payment she made to a fraudster.
  
What happened
On 10 January 2020, Mrs P received a call from someone claiming to be from a well-known 
online retailer. Unfortunately for Mrs P, the caller was actually a fraudster. The caller claimed 
Mrs Ps subscription was coming to an end and would need to be renewed. Though Mrs P 
had an account with the retailer, she didnt have a subscription. The caller suggested this 
was an indication that her mobile phone had been hacked and was at risk. She says the 
caller knew her name and postcode.
The caller instructed her through various procedures on her mobile phone, which appeared 
to demonstrate her device was being accessed from elsewhere. Mrs P was told that the 
steps were necessary to secure her device and the process, she says, seemed very 
professional.
In order to complete the protection of her phone, Mrs P was told it was necessary to 
download an application which allows another person to take control of it. She was then 
passed over to a supervisor who would guide her through the next steps to secure her 
device.
After securing various applications, the caller suggested that her bank accounts might be at 
risk and that they should be checked to ensure that they were secure. After logging into the 
mobile application of another bank and being reassured that it was secure, Mrs P logged 
onto her HSBC mobile application. 
She was advised that the best way to check whether fraudsters were accessing her account 
was to apply for a loan. Mrs P followed their instructions and applied for an £11,000 personal 
loan. Mrs P says she didnt think it could truly be a personal loan as she hadnt had to sign 
any documents and it was approved instantly. In order to cancel the loan Mrs P was 
instructed to send £10,000 to account details provided by the fraudster. Mrs P did as the 
caller requested.
She was then passed back to the first person who asked whether she needed any of her 
other devices secured. Around this time, Mrs Ps daughter could hear her on the phone and 
had become uncomfortable at what she was being told. Mrs P terminated the call and 
reported the scam at a branch of HSBC the same day, but HSBC were only able to recover 
£1.42 from the bank which received the money.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for HSBC to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
HSBC agreed that it hadnt provided an effective warning to Mrs P (a requirement under the 
CRM Code) so it refunded 50% of the money lost. But it felt that Mrs P had made the 
payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that the caller was legitimate, so 
she should also bear some responsibility for the loss. It also paid Mrs P £100 compensation 
to apologise for delays in responding to the complaint and failing to provide information 
about their attempts to recover the money.
I am also mindful that when Mrs P made these payments, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Mrs P wasnt happy with HSBCs response. She said she had no idea that it was possible to 
be granted a loan so easily and thought HSBCs processes left their customers open to this 
kind of fraud. She also said the loan wasnt affordable due to her low income and shouldnt 
have been granted without further checks. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They agreed that Mrs P lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief and, though they thought the payment was out of character and 
unusual such that HSBC ought to have intervened to question it, they also thought Mrs P 
shared some responsibility for what had happened. Overall, they felt that HSBC refunding 
50% of the loss was fair. 
Mrs P disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I think HSBC has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Mrs P in full under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this 
case, namely that Mrs P lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment.
And, though the payment was one which Id expect the bank to have questioned, given how 
unusual it was for Mrs P, I think she must share some responsibility for what happened. Im 
persuaded that fair compensation is for Mrs P to have received 50% of her loss. Ill explain 
why.
This was a cruel scam and I have every sympathy for Mrs P. I also dont doubt she believed 
what the fraudsters told her about what was happening. But I need to consider not just 
whether she did believe what she was being told, but whether that belief was reasonable. In 
considering her actions, Im mindful to avoid simply judging them with the benefit of hindsight 
or without taking into account her particular characteristics and the complexity and 
sophistication of the scam. But even taking those factors into account, there are several 
points before the payment was made that ought reasonably to have shaken Mrs Ps belief 
that what she was being told was true.
The caller doesnt appear to have impersonated the retailers phone number and only knew 
superficial information about Mrs P  her name and postcode. Nuisance calls of one type or 
another have been around for a long time  and in the circumstances of this case, Id expect 
Mrs P to approach this call with a reasonable degree of caution. 
Im mindful that the premise for the call  that her subscription wasnt going to renew  did 
not reflect her actual circumstances  a factor that Mrs P recognised at the time. And while 
the fraudster explained this discrepancy was as a result of fraud, Im surprised Mrs P didnt 
find it odd or question that a subscription shed never heard about (and presumably had 
never paid for) was coming to an end but also the result of fraud.What happens next  when Mrs P is guided through various processes on her phone - 
sounds like a version of a fairly common (though completely unknown to Mrs P) scam. I can 
understand why it would have been compelling for her to see the apparent issues with her 
internet connection and why shed want these issues resolved. Without the knowledge of the 
fraudsters tricks shed have little reason to think that the threat wasnt real.
But, this was a call about an online shopping account. According to Mrs Ps submissions the 
fraudster did not ever ask her to visit that retailers website or to interact with it in any way. 
Instead they directed her towards opening her mobile banking applications.  If Mrs P wasnt 
concerned at this point, I think she ought to have been. If there was a problem with her bank 
account then she ought reasonably to have contacted the bank about this rather than follow 
the instruction of a caller claiming to be from an online retailer.
Mrs P says she was reassured about applying for the loan because she didnt think it would 
go through instantly. However, the funds did credit her account and Im satisfied she knew 
this. So, if she hadnt believed the loan to be real before the funds credited her account, I 
think she ought to have done afterwards, particularly as this call was not from her bank, but 
from someone claiming to be an online retailer. 
Overall, though I dont doubt how persuasive the fraudsters were, I think that there were a 
number of factors that ought reasonably to have given Mrs P significant cause for concern 
about the identity and legitimacy of the caller. The majority of those factors didnt require any 
special knowledge  either of technology or scams  but simply a reasonably prudent 
response to an unknown caller in the light of increasingly intrusive and inappropriate 
requests. Therefore, I dont think HSBC have acted unfairly by failing to provide full 
reimbursement under the terms of the CRM Code.
Ive also thought about whether the activity on Mrs Ps account was so unusual that HSBC 
ought to have stopped the payment and contacted Mrs P. I agree with the investigator that 
the payment did stand out against Mrs Ps normal account usage. However, like the 
investigator, and for largely the same reasons as Ive set out above, I think that even if I 
concluded that an intervention should have taken place and would have been effective at 
stopping the scam, it would be fair to make a deduction to any award  this is because Ive 
taken the actions of both parties into account. A fair deduction here, I think, would be 50%. 
Mrs P has also said that the loan shouldnt have been granted at all as she had a very low 
annual income and it was unaffordable. She thinks that HSBC should have done more 
checks before granting the loan  such as asking her for proof of her income and 
expenditure. 
HSBC are obliged to carry out sufficient affordability checks before granting a loan. It isnt 
my role to tell them exactly what those checks should be but even if the loan was 
unaffordable, whilst I dont consider it to be fair for HSBC to benefit from this, it doesnt 
automatically follow that HSBC should write off the debt. And for the reasons Ive explained, 
Mrs P has had a role to play here. Taking all of this into account, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, I think the appropriate remedy would not be for the principal sum 
to be written off, but rather for any interest to be refunded. 
HSBC has now agreed to refund the total amount of interest payable on the loan on receipt 
of the £5,000 Mrs P has been refunded and the £1,000 she did not send to the fraudsters. 
Mrs P has told us that she should be able to repay the full £6,000. If she is only able to repay 
£5,000 then HSBC will only charge interest on £1,000 of the loan. Overall, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I think its a fair offer in the circumstances. Finally, Im persuaded that no action by HSBC could have led to the recovery of Mrs Ps 
funds. HSBCs notes show that they contacted the bank which received the payment and 
they confirmed that almost all of the money had been removed from their customers 
account before Mrs P reported the scam, with less than £2 remaining. £1.42 was eventually 
returned to Mrs P.
Im satisfied that HSBCs previous 50% refund and offer in relation to the interest is a fair 
resolution to this complaint. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs P and I dont wish her to 
feel any worse about what happened, but I have to apply the CRM Code and the banks 
obligations fairly. 
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Plc in part and instruct it, on receipt of £6,000 from 
Mrs P, to:
- Reduce the outstanding loan balance by the total amount of interest chargeable 
under the agreement - £933.51; or
- If Mrs P is unable to repay the full £6,000, reduce the amount of interest payable on a 
pro rata basis
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman