DRN-3174632
The complaint
 This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr and Mrs T hold with Bank of 
Scotland plc. Theyre unhappy that Halifax registered the wrong property address on their 
mortgage account in its systems. 
 
What happened
By way of a provisional decision issued on 8 November 2021, I set out, with reasons, how I 
intended to determine this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The history and background of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T bought a recently-built property, which was given a property address Ill refer 
to as P. Soon after they took the mortgage out with Halifax, they discovered that Halifax 
had changed the address in its records. The address now recorded was derived from an 
adjacent pre-existing plot, which Ill refer to it as R, and caused a lot of confusion with the 
delivery of mortgage-related post.
When Mr and Mrs T complained, Halifax explained it had made the change after receiving a 
document showing the property title had been officially registered as R. After Mr and Mrs T 
provided evidence the title had been corrected to P, Halifax agreed to change the address 
on its systems back to P. 
Our investigator considered this a fair outcome but the change wasnt registered promptly, 
and Mr and Mrs T asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. They said theyd lost 
faith in Halifax and wanted to be allowed to move the mortgage to a new lender without 
incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). 
Whilst the case was awaiting review, Mr and Mrs T received their annual statement, which 
was correctly addressed to P, but still incorrectly referenced R as the mortgaged property. 
We raised this with Halifax, which confirmed the amendment hadnt been correctly 
processed first time round. Its since confirmed that the amendment has now gone through 
as it should have done. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. I also 
have to ensure I dont include any information that might identify Mr and Mrs T when my 
decision is published.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive reached the following conclusions. 
Firstly, Im satisfied Halifax didnt change the address to R in error. The available evidence 
does point to the property title having been described as R when it was first registered; when 
Halifax learned of that, it was reasonable that it should change its records accordingly. 
It was also reasonable that, once it had been furnished with evidence that the title had been 
re-registered as P, Halifax should update its records afresh. If that had gone through 
smoothly, Id agree with the investigator that no more needed to be done. Unfortunately, 
Halifax made a mess of changing things back to show P as the property address, thus 
prolonging resolution of the problem unnecessarily.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts strength of feeling about this, but theres no fair basis for me to 
say they should be allowed to repay the mortgage without incurring an ERC. The ERC is a 
part of the contract they entered into with Halifax, and its not rendered null or void because 
of maladministration on Halifaxs part. 
But I do think Mr and Mrs T deserve to be compensated for the delay caused by Halifax not 
implementing the fresh amendment correctly first time around. Its caused them to 
experience extra inconvenience and nuisance, for which I consider £300 to be fair 
compensation.
The parties were given two weeks to make any further comments; Halifax accepted my 
provisional findings; Mr and Mrs T pointed out that we had recorded Mrs Ts first name 
wrongly. We corrected that immediately and apologised. Mr and Mrs T made no comment on 
the content of my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done 
so, with nothing new to take into account, I wont be departing from my provisional 
conclusions.
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs T £300 compensation for their time, trouble and upset. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman