DRN-2958059
The complaint
The estate of Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc did not do enough to protect 
Mr A when he fell victim to fraud. 
Mr A sadly passed away after his complaint had been brought to our service. At the time, his 
son, who Ill call Mr A2 was his representative. And now in his capacity as an executor of 
Mr As estate he has asked for this complaint to be progressed. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all the parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail. 
Mr A2 says Mr A has been the victim of fraud. Between September 2018 and 
December 2018 six cheque payments totalling £29,000 debited Mr As account. In addition 
to this several debit card payments totalling around £1,400 were made from another account 
he held with Co-op. A refund for these debit card payments was given in February 2019. But 
Co-op didnt agree to providing a refund for the six cheque payments.   
Mr A2, on behalf of the estate of Mr A (the estate), says Co-op failed to protect Mr A who 
was elderly and vulnerable by not querying unusual account activity. He is of the opinion that 
it failed in its duty of care, whether wholly or partly and needs to accept some liability and 
admit to its negligence.
Co-op doesnt agree. In short, it says that it didnt do anything wrong, it processed cheques 
which it believes Mr A willingly wrote and had issued, and it attempted to recover all the 
money it could on being advised of the fraud. Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and 
was of the view that it should be upheld. She said, in summary that Co-op ought to have 
identified that Mr A was at risk of financial harm from fraud and in her opinion, it could have 
prevented part of Mr As loss. Mr A2 accepted the Investigators opinion, but Co-op did not. 
In the main it said, there wasnt enough evidence to support that the disputed cheque 
payments had been obtained fraudulently. It asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
The case was passed to me to decide. I wrote to Co-op to share my provisional decision. I 
said: 
Sadly, since bringing his complaint to our service Mr A has passed  so the estate is acting 
on his behalf. 
I accept under the account mandate Co-op should process payment requests made by the 
accountholder without undue delay. So when presented with a valid payment instruction 
(which Co-op say was the case as Mr A had issued and signed the disputed cheques) the 
starting position would be for it to comply with the instruction given.
But taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Co-op should 
fairly and reasonably:
have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
have taken proactive steps to: identify and assist vulnerable consumers and 
consumers in vulnerable circumstances, including those at risk of financial 
exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers 
Associations February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment; or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I do not consider there to be a material difference between the reasonable, good-practice 
requirements on firms when processing either cheques or electronic payments when it 
comes to monitoring accounts for the prevention of financial crime and having adequate 
systems and controls in place to prevent misappropriation of funds. I have seen nothing to 
persuade me that a bank should be less vigilant, or fail to carry out due diligence, just 
because the payment is by cheque.
I appreciate the practicalities around cheque payments would look different to electronic or 
card payments. But it seems to me here there was a reasonable window of opportunity to 
interrupt and investigate a potentially fraudulent cheque payment  that is, between receipt 
of the request for settlement from the payees bank (through the clearing house) and day 
three when the drawers bank provides an update on the status of the cheque. And like in 
these circumstances where there is a series of payments it could be argued that it 
reasonably couldve prevented the issuing of subsequent cheques had appropriate action 
been taken and scam warnings given.
I agree with the Investigator that the first two cheques wouldnt have stood out as 
uncharacteristic or sufficiently unusual as Mr A had in the recent past made a genuine 
cheque payment for a similar sum. But the third cheque for £5,000 wouldve meant a total 
spend of £11,000 over a relatively short period of time (a few weeks). A closer look wouldve 
identified that whilst the cheques had been signed by Mr A, they were not written by him  
which shouldve given some cause for concern. Im also led to believe that Mr A usually 
wrote his own cheques out  so Im surprised the cheque image checking system 
intelligence didnt identify this change and flag the cheques for further assessment. 
The cheques were also issued to individuals not an incorporated firm. So I think there were 
enough red flags that ought to have given Co-op cause for concern that Mr A could be at risk 
of financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. I think Co-op ought reasonably to 
have contacted Mr A to ask him questions about the payments.I also note (and which I consider to be an important factor) that, at the time of the scam, 
Mr A was in his nineties. It has long been accepted by the industry that this age profile is one 
that is disproportionately targeted by scammers. Aside from being particularly susceptible as 
targets for investment fraud and other forms of financial crime, this age group at the present 
time more commonly uses cheques. So, I think in the particulars of this case, Mr As age is a 
relevant factor that the bank should have been mindful of, as it materially increases the risk 
of loss due to fraud or scams.
I think had Co-op contacted Mr A he wouldve disclosed that the cheques were payments 
due to the IT company that were fixing his computer. At this point given the cheques had 
been made payable to individuals and not an IT firm and were for disproportionate amounts 
relative to the services Mr A was paying for (fixing of a computer), I think its fair to say that 
any prudent banker wouldve identified that Mr A was being scammed and wouldve had a 
permissible reason to return the £5,000 cheque unpaid. And had Co-op explained this to 
Mr A I think he wouldve informed his son (who wouldve reported this to the Police as he did 
later when he discovered what had happened) and Mr As subsequent losses wouldve also 
been prevented.
Ive also considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility as he did hand over 
blank signed cheques. But taking into consideration his vulnerability due to age I agree with 
the Investigator that I dont think he should. I dont think I can fairly conclude that he was 
knowingly careless or negligent when issuing the cheques.
To put things right I think Co-op should do the following:
Refund the preventable loss of £23,000.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum from the date the cheques debited the account to 
settlement.
I agree with the Investigator that the whole matter couldve been handled better, so a 
compensatory award of £100 for trouble and upset caused to Mr A is fair.
Mr A2 continues to accept the outcome. However, he feels it would have been humbling for 
Co-op to have made an apology for its lack of care and attention towards Mr A. And 
regarding the compensatory award recommendation, whilst this wasnt something he was 
challenging he just wanted to make known that he considers it to be a derisory sum.  
Co-op continued to defend its position. It maintained that there was a lack of evidence to 
support, that Mr A had been the victim of fraud. It made several points in response to my 
provisional decision. Most of which, I note, it has made before, and which Id taken into 
consideration. It said: 
- It was Mr A2  not Mr As testimony that the cheque payments were intended for an 
IT company. 
- During the period in which the cheque payments had debited Mr As account, his 
online banking details had been used 19 times to log in. Each log in was error free, 
which it believes suggests that Mr A was able to remember his security and able to 
see his keyboard and screen. 
- It said that, at the material time, it appears that Mr A was managing his own financial 
affairs. It pointed out that according to Mr A2s own testimony, when he offered to 
help Mr A he refused to share his bank statements with him. 
- Mr A had issued (excluding those which have been disputed) other large cheques 
which were signed by Mr A but not written in his handwriting.- Co-op highlighted a large cash withdrawal Mr A2 had made from Mr As account. 
- It pointed out what it felt were inconsistencies that it believed called into question the 
reliability of Mr A2s testimony as evidence. 
I shared with Co-op further reasoning and addressed each of the points theyd raised to 
provide assurances that Id thought about things carefully and taken the wider circumstances 
into consideration when reaching my intended outcome. I explained: 
- I have seen no reason to dispute Mr A2s testimony about what Mr A had told him 
(albeit limited information) about the cheque payments. 
- Co-op wasnt willing to accept that Mr A had been the victim of fraud because the 
Police had not made any arrests or charged anyone. But Im satisfied the matter was 
reported to the Police and referred to the Crown Prosecution Services (CPS). The 
CPS decided it wasnt going to take the case further because in their opinion there 
wasn't enough evidence to prove the allegations beyond reasonable doubt  which 
is the bar for criminal matters. This isnt uncommon and is often seen to happen in 
many fraud and scam cases. So the case not being taken forward does not confirm 
nor automatically mean, that Mr A hasnt been the victim of fraud. Actually, from 
everything Ive seen, Im persuaded that, on balance, Mr A had most likely been a 
victim of fraud and had been taken advantage of due to his vulnerability owing to 
age. Something which, as Ive explained in my provisional decision is an important 
factor that Co-op should have been mindful of, as it materially increases the risk of 
loss due to fraud or scams.
- Ultimately, Mr A at the time was a customer in his nineties, with cheque payments 
leaving his account in a short space of time which were significantly uncharacteristic 
for him. Those cheques were made to named individuals and not written in Mr A's 
handwriting. Taking this together there was enough going on here to have given 
Co-op a cause for concern that Mr A might have been at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. So it ought to have intervened and done more to safeguard Mr A. And by not 
doing so, Co-op has missed an opportunity to better understand what was going on 
and protect Mr A. 
- I highlighted the papers issued by the regulator around consumer vulnerability. This 
has more recently featured as guidance on fair outcomes for vulnerable customers. 
In short, by the time these payments took place banks such as Co-op should've had 
measures in place to understand the nature and scale of characteristics of 
vulnerability that exist in their target market and customer base. This includes 
customers that have a vulnerability due to age. I'd expect Co-op to have been aware 
that this group of individuals utilise cheques as a method of payment and are at a 
greater risk of losses as a result of fraud or financial abuse. And I'd reasonably 
expect it to have systems/measures in place to spot suspicious activity which signals 
fraud or abuse and have staff trained to respond to and support individuals if this was 
identified.
- At the time of the disputed transactions, it is understood that Mr A was taking care of 
his own affairs. So had Co-op intervened and questioned him when processing the 
third cheque for £5,000, I think he would have told it that he'd given signed (but 
incomplete) cheques to an unknown third party and he would have explained the 
reason for the payments. Based on the above and Mr As vulnerability due to age I 
think Co-op ought to have intervened; returned the £5,000 cheque unpaid; and given 
Mr A appropriate fraud warnings. And on balance, taking everything into 
consideration I do think, had Co-op taken these steps, it would've made a difference 
and prevented further losses (from the third cheque payment onwards).- Mr A2 has explained that he set up Mr As online banking and used this to make 
payments to help him from time to time. He wasn't monitoring the accounts or 
checking them as Mr A wanted to remain as independent as he could. He maintains 
Mr A did not use online banking  so wouldnt have seen the payments leaving his 
account. Mr A2 has provided some evidence about Mr As eye condition. I note 
Co-op does not consider this to be sufficient, but I think Mr A2s willingness to share 
this as well as any other evidence he has been asked to provide and taking into 
account Mr A was in his nineties where sight problems are common, it is completely 
plausible (and more likely) that Mr A didnt access his online banking nor was he able 
to review his statements diligently. So whilst hed have been aware that hed signed 
and given cheques, I think in all probability, he was unaware of the sums which had 
debited his account. And whilst the deterioration of Mr As health meant he couldnt 
remember or provide much clarity at a later point; had he been contacted by Co-op at 
the material time to ask about the nature of the cheque payments debiting his 
account as Ive mentioned above, I think he wouldve honestly and openly shared the 
reasons. And I think either Mr A wouldve come to the realisation himself that hed 
been taken advantage of, or Co-op ought to have reasonably ascertained that he 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud, and it should have taken the appropriate 
steps as detailed above.
- Mr A2 says when Mr As health started to deteriorate, he sat down with him to review 
his statements, which is when he noticed these payments. His suspicions arose 
further because Mr A mentioned someone had come round a few times to fix the 
computer. Mr A2 says he asked Mr A further questions, but he couldn't remember 
much detail. He says he requested statements so that he could see how long this 
had been going on for and/or if there were any other payments.
- I appreciate Co-op have said that Mr A issued large signed incomplete cheques 
before the disputed cheques. But it doesnt change my finding that Mr A was in his 
nineties and susceptible to financial harm and/or abuse. And the velocity of spend 
and increasing size of cheque payments ought to have given Co-op cause for 
concern.
- Co-op made known to me its concerns about funds which were transferred from 
Mr A2s brothers account to Mr As account and then withdrawn by Mr A2 in cash. 
Im not entirely sure what bearing this has on the outcome of this complaint, or its 
intention. Nonetheless I asked Mr A2 about this, and he explained that he had lasting 
power of attorney (LPA) for Mr A and power of attorney (POA) for his brother. He 
said his brother was disabled and suffered from cerebral palsy (he has also sadly 
passed). He lived independently, but Mr A financially supported him, and cash was 
generally withdrawn to pay for things he needed and for his care. Mr A2 said his 
brother also banked with Co-op, so it should be aware of this background.
- With regards to inconsistencies which Co-op pointed out. These appear to be how 
things have been interpreted by the Investigator  not Mr A2 providing inaccurate or 
differing versions of events. 
Co-op did not respond to my further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I want to start by acknowledging that I do appreciate Co-ops strength of feeling about this 
complaint, as it relies almost entirely on what Mr A2 thinks happened rather than Mr As own 
recollections. This factor has made this decision somewhat difficult to make. But Id like to 
assure Co-op that I havent taken this decision lightly and that I have thought about 
everything carefully. And I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, on what I considered most likely to have happened, in the light of the available 
evidencemy role allows me to do this when reaching what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
As neither party has provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to deviate 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right the Co-operative Bank Plc must pay the estate of Mr A: 
The preventable loss of £23,000 (less any sum which may have already been 
recovered and returned).
8% simple interest per annum from the date each cheque debited the account to date 
of settlement.
A compensatory award of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman