DRN-3328321
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in October 2010.
Mr H says it was mis-sold because hes held the account for many years, but barely used 
any benefits so feels the account has been poor value for money. Mr H says that the full 
features, costs, and exclusions were not made clear to him. Mr H says that it was not made 
clear that fee-free alternatives were available to him. Mr H also says that prior to taking out 
the URCA online, hed visited branch several times and was told that the account provided 
lots of benefits and would make him eligible for better rates on loans and overdrafts.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the URCA was 
mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it might also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I need to decide what I think most likely 
happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered everything, I dont 
think the URCA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, based on Mr Hs comments, it seems that Mr H feels that the URCA has been poor 
value for him over the years and with the benefit of hindsight, now regrets agreeing to it. 
However, whilst that may be the case, that in itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold. For me to 
be able to say it was likely mis-sold, I would need to see that Halifax did something wrong 
when it sold the account to Mr H.
Ive started by thinking whether Mr H was given a fair choice in taking out the URCA. I note 
that Mr H says that he was not presented with the option of a fee-free account. As Mr H 
applied for the account online, I have looked at archived copies of Halifaxs website from 
2010 to understand what I think he was likely to have seen. And based on these, it looks like 
the range of accounts that Halifax offered were clearly set out. Specifically, it was made 
clear that Halifax offered the URCA, a Reward account or an everyday account  with the 
URCA being the only account that incurred a monthly fee. 
As such, I think that Mr H was presented with enough information, prior to him applying for 
the account online, for him to know that Halifax did in fact offer alternative fee-free accounts 
and that these were available to him. 
I also note that Mr H chose to open an URCA himself online (albeit after speaking to staff in 
branch). So in the circumstances, I think that he did so knowing it was optional and that he 
was aware that he didnt have to take it out, if he didnt want to.
Based on what both parties have said and provided, I think that the account was sold on a 
non-advised basis. I say this because firstly, Mr H applied for the account himself online, so 
no member of staff was present during the actual sale. I also say this because simply being 
encouraged to take out an URCA by being told in branch that the account comes with lots of 
benefits and better rates on borrowing, does not amount to it being an advised sale. 
Therefore, Halifax was not required to check whether the account was a good fit for Mr H, 
but it was required to give Mr H all of the important information about the account so he 
could decide for himself if it was worth taking out.
Unfortunately, I dont know what Mr H wouldve seen during the application process. But I 
have looked at the archived copy of Halifaxs website, to understand what I think Mr H was 
likely to have seen, before he applied for the account. 
I note that Mr H says the full features, costs and exclusions were not made clear. But looking 
at the website, I can see it was made clear that the account would cost £12.50 per month, 
and that if Mr H paid in £1,000 or more per month, he would receive a £5 reward. It also lists 
the benefits of the account at the time, which were: worldwide travel insurance, breakdown 
cover, mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover, travel accident cover, identity theft 
assistance, purchase protection cover. It also explained that by having the URCA, the first 
£300 of an arranged overdraft was interest and fee-free. It also said that it includes a range 
of other features, including discounts on insurance and £150 cash back if taking out a First 
Time Buyer Mortgage or Home Mover Mortgage. 
When Mr H took out the account, he had an agreed overdraft limit of £300  which matched 
the overdraft benefit that was included with the account. So I think its likely that he was 
aware of this feature. I also note that Mr H went on to register a phone in February 2011. So 
given all of this I think Mr H was given at least some information about the account cost, 
features and information about how to go about using them. Therefore, if it was the case that 
Mr H already had breakdown cover prior to applying for the URCA, it was up to him to decide 
whether to continue with his existing cover or to cancel it and rely on the URCA cover 
instead. 
I note that Mr H says that he was told the URCA provided better rates. Its difficult for me to 
comment on this, given that there is no evidence (beyond Mr Hs recollections) of this 
conversation. I also say this because the conversation took place over 11 years ago, and Im 
mindful that recollections can fade or change overtime. Furthermore, I note that the account 
did provide overdraft, mortgage and savings benefits at the time  albeit not all benefits were 
necessarily better interest rates. So I cant rule out the possibility that the person he spoke 
to in branch discussed these benefits and it is those features that Mr H recalls being told 
about. Im also mindful that Mr H was able to go away and check what benefits were 
specifically included with the account, before choosing to take the account out himself 
online. So in the circumstances, Im not able to say that Mr H was in all likelihood given 
misleading information about the account. 
Due to the lack of evidence, I accept that Mr H might not have been given all of the important 
information about the URCA during the sale. But based on Mr Hs circumstances at the time, 
and bearing in mind what Ive said above about what information I think he likely did see, Ive 
not seen anything that makes me think Mr H wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
account, had he been given even more information about it.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, when deciding what I think was most likely to 
have happened, I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold. I therefore dont think itd be 
appropriate to ask Halifax to refund Mr Hs account fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I therefore dont 
uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman