DRN-4314502
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the delays caused by ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) during the 
process of accessing her pension fund held with them. She states that these delays have 
caused her financial loss because the value of her pension fund reduced during this time.
What happened
In February 2022, Mrs G received a retirement pack from ReAssure, confirming her 
upcoming retirement date of 23 June 2022 and outlining her options. It stated that the value 
of her fund at that time was £18,517.96. This was followed by another retirement pack on 3 
May 2022, which reiterated her options, and stated what Mrs G needed to do in order to 
select each option.
Mrs G said she then received a phone call from ReAssure checking her choice and asking 
whether she had consulted a financial adviser. She was then expecting claim forms to be 
issued in order to continue with the process of accessing her pension fund. ReAssure state 
that they have no record of this call, and that it was not in their standard process to make 
this type of call. Mrs G states that she then received no further correspondence, and on 19 
June 2022 she used the website messaging service to check the progress of her claim. The 
contact form used included Mrs Gs email address and policy number. ReAssure have stated 
they did not receive this.
On 23 June 2022 Mrs G received a policy statement, confirming that she had reached her 
retirement date, but no retirement benefits had been put into payment. It stated you may 
now take your benefits at any time.
On 12 July 2022, Mrs G contacted ReAssure again via their website asking for an update 
and including her policy number and her email address. She received an automated 
response. ReAssure have stated that they also did not receive this contact.
On 19 July 2022 an annual review was sent to Mrs G, with the value of her pension as at 5 
April 2022. Mrs G states that this was not received until 17 August 2022.
In August 2022, Mrs G telephoned ReAssure and complained about the fact that nothing had 
happened relating to her request to access her pension. They arranged for a member of the 
retirement team to contact Mrs G on 6th September, and following this, a retirement pack 
was issued on 12th September 2022. Mrs G did not return the forms within the pack to 
ReAssure until 7 November 2022.
ReAssure issued their final response to Mrs Gs complaint on 16 September. They stated 
that they could find no evidence of any contact from Mrs G until 24 August 2022, and did not 
uphold her complaint. On 28 September 2022, Mrs G responded to ReAssure, reiterating her 
position that the process had started on 3 May 2022. In November 2022, when Mrs G 
returned her claim forms the value of her fund had reduced to £15,650.27. Mrs G received 
the payment, after the deduction of tax, on 21 November with a calculation date of 10 
November 2022.
In January 2023, ReAssure issued a further response  they stated that because they hadnt 
been able to locate evidence of Mrs G initiating the claim process prior to 24 August 2022, 
their decision not to uphold her complaint was unchanged. Mrs G was unhappy with this 
outcome and referred her complaint to this service.
After considering the evidence available, the investigator agreed with ReAssure that there 
was no evidence of Mrs G contacting ReAssure prior to 24 August 2022, and did not uphold 
the complaint. Mrs G did not agree with this and therefore the complaint has been referred to 
me for a decision.
Provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 20 June 2023. It said:
I believe that there have been delays caused by both parties which have contributed to the 
timescales for payment of Mrs Gs pension lump sum. I therefore intend to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint and take into account both parties actions when determining any redress payable 
to Mrs G.
Mrs G states that she commenced the process to access her full pension pot in May 2022 
following a call from ReAssure which was received after the correspondence dated 3 May 
2022. ReAssure say that they do not have any record of this, nor is it their process to make 
such a call.  Mrs G has provided telephone records. However, these only show outgoing 
calls so dont support Mrs Gs case.
ReAssure have been able to find a record of a call that Mrs G made to them on 24 August 
2022. They also have records of calls both to and from Mrs G on 6 September 2022. I think 
that as ReAssure have been able to locate these calls, it is reasonable to conclude that they 
would also have been able to find any previous calls made. On balance, therefore, taking 
into account all the evidence, Im satisfied there were no telephone calls between the parties 
until 24 August.
Mrs G says she attempted to contact ReAssure via their website twice, on 19 June and 12 
July 2022. ReAssure state that they did not receive these messages. 
However, Mrs G has provided evidence of an automatically generated response received on 
12 July which stated Thank you for your contact via the ReAssure website. Were currently 
receiving a large number of contacts, so it may take longer than normal for use to get back 
to you. Please be assured that a member of our Customer Services team will be in touch 
with you as soon as possible. So Im satisfied Mrs G did successfully contact ReAssure on 
12 July.
Mrs G has not provided a similar automatically generated email following her attempt to 
contact ReAssure on 19 June 2022. I see no reason why a similar response wouldnt have 
been sent. Therefore, whilst I recognise Mrs G has sent in screenshots showing her having 
completed ReAssures online form, Im not persuaded that she did successfully contact 
ReAssure on 19 June. She may well have attempted contact. But that attempt must have 
been unsuccessful which isnt something I can reasonably hold against ReAssure. 
With the above in mind, I think ReAssure could, reasonably, have started the request for 
funds process for Mrs G from 12 July when she successfully made contact through 
ReAssures website. Whilst it is true to say that Mrs G should have telephoned the number in 
the retirement pack rather than attempting to make contact to chase progress via 
ReAssures website, I think it is fair to say that if ReAssure had responded to the website contact in an appropriate timescale, their representative would have been able to advise Mrs 
G of the next steps, or transfer her to another area of the business who could assist her.
From the 24th August, when ReAssure commenced the process, to the date of the funds 
being received by Mrs G on 21 November was 12 weeks and 5 days, of which 8 weeks was 
the time Mrs G took to return the forms.
I therefore feel is it reasonable to conclude that Mrs G should be considered to have 
commenced the process with ReAssure no later than 12 July 2022, and that the process 
would have taken 12 weeks and 5 days to complete. This means that Mrs G should have 
received her pension payment on 9 October 2022, with the calculation being done on 28 
September.
Responses to my provisional decision
I have received responses from both Mrs G and ReAssure. Neither party have added any 
further arguments or points to take into account in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the responses from both parties, as no new information or 
arguments have been provided I see no reason to change my decision. So I remain of the 
view I set out in my provisional decision  my findings as set out above should be 
considered as part of my final decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
ReAssure needs to undertake a loss calculation. It needs to work out what would have been 
paid to Mrs Gs pension on 9 October 2022 (with the calculation dated 28 September), taking 
into account the tax free cash and taxation. They should then compare this with the actual 
value that was paid to Mrs G in November 2022. The difference between the two is the loss 
caused by the delay. Interest at 8% pa simple should be added to the loss from 9 October 
2022 to the date of payment. 
ReAssure should supply details of its calculations to Mrs G in a clear and simple format. 
My final decision
For the reason given above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
ReAssure Limited will be required to pay the compensation stated above to Mrs G in line 
with my provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman