DRN-3933235
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly added exclusions and refused to pay 
her claim made on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2022, Mrs M took out the policy with Pinnacle online to cover her dog. The policy 
started in August 2022. When her dog required veterinary treatment in September 2022, she 
made a claim with Pinnacle.
Pinnacle said shed answered the question it asked when she applied for the policy about 
her dogs prior health incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless  as opposed to a 
reckless or deliberate  qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to retrospectively add 
various exclusion clauses to the policy. Pinnacle believed one of those exclusions prevented 
Mrs Ms claim from being paid.  
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service and our investigator thought it shouldnt be 
upheld. They felt Pinnacle had acted reasonably in finding that there was a careless 
misrepresentation and in adding the exclusion that ultimately led to the decline of the claim.
Unhappy with the outcome reached by the investigator, Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, she said she answered the question Pinnacle asked honestly and 
refuted that there was any qualifying misrepresentation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Pinnacle thinks Mrs M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she answered no to the following question when she bought the policy:
Has [Mrs Ms dog] shown any signs of illness or injury?
Has [Mrs Ms dog] shown any sign of injury or illness or been unwell? We need to 
know anything you have noticed or discussed with your vet or any other professional 
about [Mrs Ms dogs] health or behaviour. Even if there was nothing to be concerned 
about and the problem was resolved quickly.
Further information available to Mrs M when asked the question explained:
[Mrs Ms dogs] pre-existing conditions:  Its important we know of any conditions 
and/or symptoms [Mrs Ms dogs] suffering from or has suffered from in the past 
before you take out this policy. At the point of claim, our team will review your pets 
medical records. Failure to tell us about any pre-existing conditions may affect future 
claims and your policy.    
Im satisfied the question about Mrs Ms dogs health was clear and specific. Im also 
satisfied that the potential implications of answering incorrectly were made clear to Mrs M at 
the time of the sale. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs M took reasonable care in 
answering the question as she did. So there does appear to have been a misrepresentation. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. In other words, whether the incorrect information Mrs M provided would 
have made any difference to the terms Pinnacle would have offered her.
To that end, Pinnacles provided a copy of its underwriting criteria together with an 
explanation from one of its underwriters. These show that, had Pinnacle been provided with 
the correct information, it would have added several exclusions to the policy it offered Mrs M 
including, most relevantly to this complaint, one for gastro-intestinal problems. 
So, Im satisfied Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Ive also thought about how Pinnacles classified the misrepresentation. Pinnacles said 
Mrs Ms misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless. It felt there was 
no evidence to suggest Mrs M deliberately provided answers that were untrue or misleading. 
Because it nevertheless felt she hadnt taken reasonable care, it classed the 
misrepresentation as careless.
In all the circumstances, I dont believe it was unreasonable for Pinnacle to have classed the 
misrepresentation as it did. I say that having reviewed the veterinary records very carefully 
together with Mrs Ms comments about them, particularly in her emails of 25 January and 21 
February 2023 in response to the investigators assessments. The records showed: 
On 7 January 2019 Mrs M called the surgery to say her dog had suffered with 
diarrhea over the weekend. In the end Mrs M opted not to make an appointment and 
to monitor instead.  
On 14 January 2020 Mrs M reported that her dog had started vomiting over the 
weekend, a total of six times up to that point. The notes record does tend have a 
sensitive tummy. They showed that the vet offered Mrs M gastroprotectants  
medication typically used to treat gastro-intestinal illness  which she declined in 
favour of monitoring.  
On 26 October 2021, during an appointment for vaccinations and an annual check-
up, it was noted Mrs Ms dog occasionally suffered with diarrhea. Mrs M saw this as 
normal for her dog and they werent suffering with it at the time. Her dog was noted to 
be a scavenger that was fussy and got bored with the same foods easily. The vet 
advised Mrs M to stick to one diet if possible as changes were likely contributing to the ongoing [diarrhea].  
Ive considered Mrs Ms explanations as to why she didnt disclose these details. But the 
question was clear in that Pinnacle even wanted to know about things that werent 
considered a major concern or that resolved quickly. Im also mindful that some of the 
relevant veterinary entries were made relatively close in time to Mrs Ms application for the 
policy  the last of them only pre-dated the application by around nine months. Its 
reasonable to think these would have been fresher in her mind and less difficult to recall as a 
result.
As Im satisfied Pinnacle could treat Mrs Ms misrepresentation as careless, Ive looked at 
the actions Pinnacle could take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRAs clear about an insurer 
being entitled to, among other things, treat the policy as though it had been provided on the 
terms it would have offered if the terms offered would have been different. That would mean 
an insurer potentially applying those terms retrospectively and from the start of the policy. 
This is essentially what Pinnacles shown would have happened. Its demonstrated that 
several exclusions would have been added to the policy, most notably one for gastro-
intestinal problems. Given the circumstances of Mrs Ms subsequent claim and the addition 
of that exclusion, I think it was fair for Pinnacle to have declined it. 
I realise Mrs M and the treating vets believe the cause of the claim was unrelated to the 
symptoms her dog showed before the start of the policy. But that isnt why Pinnacle declined 
the claim. Nor does it prevent the claim  which the evidence indicates relates to gastro-
intestinal problems  from being caught by the exclusion Pinnacles added to the policy. 
Taking everything into account, and while recognising Mrs Ms strength of feeling to the 
contrary, I dont consider that Pinnacles treated her unfairly overall.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman