DRN-3739034
The complaint
Mr M and X complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined their claim for 
storm damage under their home insurance policy, stating wear and tear. 
What happened
Mr M and X have a home insurance policy with esure, with cover starting on 25 March 2021.
They said their home was damaged by a storm between 26 and 27 November 2021. They 
said the storm dislodged roof tiles and damaged guttering. So they made a claim on to esure 
on 6 December 2021. They also provided a quote for £8,707.65 for the repairs. 
Mr M and X said they had to leave their house the morning after the storm as they had no
electricity. And that while they were away, their builders removed the storm damaged 
guttering as it posed a danger. They said that they were told that due to the nature of the 
guttering, it would all need to be replaced following the storm damage and not just the 
sections which were removed.
esure confirmed that storm conditions had been present, appointed a surveyor to assess the 
damage and informed Mr M and X about this appointment on 11 January 2022. It stated in 
this email that its surveyor would provide the formal claim decision on its before. The 
surveyor visited the property on 26 January 2022. He reported that there was no insured 
cause and therefore no policy cover, as the primary cause of the damage was a natural 
breakdown of materials, or wear and tear. He declined the claim.
Mr M and X felt that the surveyor was pre-disposed to reject their claim. They said he had 
mocked the quote theyd shared. They also said hed told them that he would be personally 
liable to pay the full cost of the repairs if he approved the claim and esure subsequently 
disagreed with his findings. Both esure and the surveyor refute that he said this. 
esure confirmed on 28 January 2022 that it couldnt cover the roof tiles or the 
gutters/downpipe as it agreed with its surveyor that the damage was due to wear and tear. It 
reviewed the claim internally. And felt that the photos provided showed that the gutters were 
rusted and had come down in large sections. It also felt that the roof was in a generally poor 
condition with missing mortar on the ridge and moss/general wear and tear throughout. It felt 
it was clear that the damage was due to wear and tear and that the claim should be 
declined. 
Mr M and X complained to esure on 14 February 2022. They didnt agree that the gutters on 
their property werent fit for purpose. They provided a partial copy of the Homebuyers report 
which had been based on an inspection on 30 November 2020. They felt this showed that 
the gutters were in good order. They also said that the surveyor had been polite during his 
visit, but had acted unprofessionally.
esure issued its final response to the complaint on 22 February 2022. It accepted that there 
had been storm conditions. But it rejected Mr M and Xs claim. It felt that the root cause of 
the damage to the roof was wear and tear, which wasnt covered under the policy. And that 
the storm had merely highlighted that the roof materials had broken down and were in need 
of replacement. esure said the Homebuyers report had stated: 
"we inspect roofs, chimneys and other surfaces on the outside of the building from ground 
level and, if necessary, from neighbouring public property and with the help of binoculars".
It said that the roof hadnt been fully inspected at the time of the report. And that any pre-
existing issues with it wouldve been less apparent from ground level. It also noted that over 
a year had passed since the report had been produced, giving more time for the natural 
breakdown of the materials. So it felt that the report supported its decision to decline. 
Mr M and X were unhappy, so brought their complaint to this service. They said theyd had 
the Homebuyers report produced less than a year before the storm. And that the surveyor 
had confirmed that the guttering was in a good state of repair for its age, with no significant 
defects being noted and no repair necessary at that time. They said that no further damage 
had occurred to their home during more recent storms, which had been of a lesser 
magnitude. And that cast-iron guttering such as theirs was by nature exposed to the 
elements and would inevitably show signs of rust. But that this didnt mean it wasnt fit for 
purpose. So they didnt feel that esure had acted fairly when theyd rejected their claim for 
wear and tear. Mr M and X also told this service that the claim had been very stressful. They 
wanted esure to pay for the required repairs and to compensation them for the distress it had 
caused. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt photos provided by Mr M 
and X showed typical storm damage. He didnt feel that esure had shown that the rust on the 
guttering was the predominant cause of its failure. He was more persuaded by the extract 
from the 2020 Homebuyers report, which stated that the cast iron gutters appear to be in 
good repair for their age, than the surveyors report. He acknowledged that the 
Homebuyers report had been completed from ground level, as was common. But didnt 
consider that the surveyors inspection had been in more depth. Overall he felt that the storm 
was the primary cause of the damage.
Mr M and X also told our investigator that esure had incorrectly priced their renewal 
premium. esure said that theyd made an error with the calculation. And told Mr M and X 
what the correct premium shouldve been. 
I understand that Mr M and X didnt renew their policy with esure. And instead found a new 
insurer. So no overpayment was made. Our investigator recommended that esure paid 
compensation to Mr M and X for the inconvenience of changing policies because of the 
incorrect (and high) increase. 
Our investigator felt that esure should take the following steps to put things right:
refund to Mr M and X the cost of the repairs, plus interest
pay them £250 for the trouble and upset itd caused over the storm claim and errors 
made calculating the renewal premium.
esure didnt agree with our investigator. It said that the invoice that had been shared with it 
appeared to be to replace all the guttering. It felt that as not all the guttering came down in 
the storm, it wouldnt be fair to ask it to put Mr M and X into a better position than they were 
in before the storm.
It shared a number of photos which showed the condition of the fallen section of the gutters up close. It said these werent in good condition. And that it would take a huge amount of 
force to cause the cast iron gutters to fall. It felt that there was no doubt that rust and 
corrosion enabled this. esure also felt that it hadnt dismissed the Homebuyers report 
because the survey was from ground level. It said that the report was a very basic version 
and that it didnt guarantee that the whole roof and the gutters were now in pristine condition.
Our investigator shared esures points with Mr M and X. They felt that their Homebuyers 
report had been carried out by a very experienced chartered surveyor, and that its contents 
shouldve been sufficient to satisfy esure. They said that theyd followed the advice from their 
builders who had told them that all the guttering would need to be replaced, not just the 
sections which were damaged. They didnt agree that they were now in a better position than 
they had been in before the storm.  
esure provided further information from the surveyor who had originally assessed the 
damage. He made the following points:
Storm conditions had occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened.
But in his opinion, the damage claimed for wasnt consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes. He noted that there was only a small area where slates had been 
dislodged. And felt that high winds from the storm wouldve caused more extensive 
damage to the slates. So the damage wasnt fully in line with storm conditions.
He didnt think that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. He said 
that although the roof was in a fair condition, some areas of slates were visibly in a 
poor condition. He also said that the collapsed guttering, which had been removed 
and stacked when he saw it, showed degradation and rusting. He felt it was 
reasonable to assume that the overlap joints and its sealants wouldve also perished, 
causing the guttering to become loose and ineffective on the joints. And that all these 
factors had led to the natural breakdown of materials. So the claim had been 
correctly declined. 
He said he hadnt mocked Mr M and Xs quote. Nor had he said he was incentivised 
to decline claims. But he said that he had said the quote was high. And that when Mr 
M and X had told him it was for the whole house, hed explained that any undamaged 
sections werent covered. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 September 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I dont agree with our investigator that the storm 
was the primary cause of the damage. And I dont agree that esure unfairly declined the 
claim for storm damage when they cited wear and tear, which isnt covered under the policy. 
I dont agree that the Homebuyers report was more persuasive than the surveyors report, 
his subsequent comments and the photos that have now been provided. I know my decision 
will be disappointing to Mr M and X. Ill explain the reasons for it. 
When this service considers storm cases, we ask three questions:
1) was there a storm? 2) was the damage consistent with storm damage? and 
3) was the storm the dominant cause of the damage? 
Only if all three questions can be answered yes will we say that the insurer should pay a 
claim for storm damage.
Theres no dispute that there was a storm. What is in dispute is whether the damage was 
consistent with storm damage. And if the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. 
esures surveyor felt that the damage wasnt fully consistent with storm damage. He said that 
some of the slates on the roof were visibly in a poor condition. And felt that the condition of 
the collapsed guttering showed that a natural breakdown of materials had caused the 
damage. 
Mr M and X felt that the fact that subsequent, lesser storms hadnt damaged their property, 
showed that the damage their property had suffered was consistent with storm damage. 
I asked Mr M and X to provide a full copy of their Homebuyers report. This report stated that 
it had been written for the following purpose: 
 make a reasoned and informed decision on whether to go ahead with buying the property
 make an informed decision on what is a reasonable price to pay for the property
 take account of any repairs or replacements the property needs; and
 consider what further advice you should take before committing to purchase the property.
So the main focus of the report was to decide on whether the property was a reasonable one 
to buy and for what price. The report also states: 
We inspect roofs, chimneys and other surfaces on the outside of the building from ground 
level and, if necessary, from neighbouring public property and with the help of binoculars.
Its not unreasonable that a survey carried out for the purposes listed is based on an 
inspection of the roof and guttering from ground level. But Im not persuaded that this leads 
to a report which is particularly useful for identifying any issues with the roof or guttering. I 
say this because I found the following statements about the roof and the gutters in the full 
version:
Gutters
The efficiency of rainwater fittings (gutters and downpipes) can only be assessed properly 
during inspection if there is heavy rain. 
It should be noted that the report recorded that it wasnt raining at the time of the inspection. 
So the inspector was unable to say if there were any leaks. 
Roof
The main house roof has sloping roof coverings. It is covered with slate. The roof covering 
has been inspected from ground level aided by binoculars from the subject property 
grounds.  The slate covering is generally in good repair. We did note however evidence of 
clipping using lead clips. This is a method used to secure the odd slipped slate into 
position. Clipping was noted not to be excessive and possible future maintenance of the roof covering especially following high winds should be anticipated in future. 
After reading the relevant sections of the full Homebuyers report, I dont agree with our 
investigators assessment that it is more persuasive than the surveyors report. I 
acknowledge that I have also been provided with additional comments from the surveyor, 
and better photos of the damage, since our investigator issued his view. I dont consider that 
the Homebuyers report properly assessed the condition of the roof or the guttering. That 
report was drawn up to comment on the overall state of the property and to value it. 
I also dont agree with our investigator that the damage was consistent with storm damage. I 
say this because Im more persuaded by the surveyors report, additional photos showing 
extremely rusted and broken guttering, and the surveyors comments. I also consider that 
the Homebuyers report warned Mr M and X that some of their slates were clipped. And 
that they would need to maintain their roof especially following high winds. I consider that 
this shows that Mr M and X couldve reasonably expected some tiles to fall after facing a 
very strong storm. The fact that no others have fallen in subsequent, weaker storms is 
evidence that the clipped tiles were dislodged  as expected  during the storm the claim 
was based on. 
Although, in my view, the damage wasnt fully consistent with storm damage, for 
completeness, Ive also gone on to consider whether the storm was the dominant cause of 
the damage. esure say it wasnt. And that the storm had simply highlighted the existing 
problems with the roof and with the guttering. Mr M and X say that the storm caused the 
damage. They referred to their Homebuyers report, which stated that the guttering: 
appear[ed] to be in good repair for their age. 
As I noted earlier, I dont consider that the Homebuyers report fully assessed the condition 
of the guttering. I also dont agree that good for their age necessarily meant that they 
werent showing signs of wear and tear. I also consider that the issues the report noted 
about the roof showed that it was likely that some tiles would be dislodged in high winds. 
Ive also now seen photos of the fallen guttering. These show them to be extremely rusted. 
Im not an expert on these matters, but they dont appear to be fit for purpose. esures 
surveyor felt that, given the state of the fallen guttering, it was reasonable: to assume that 
the overlap joints and its sealants wouldve also perished, causing the guttering to become 
loose and ineffective on the joints. Im satisfied that this was a reasonable conclusion given 
the state of the broken guttering. 
esures surveyors job was to look at the specific damage to the roof and guttering. The 
Homebuyers report was just a general overview of the condition of the property. And while I 
acknowledge that the original surveyors report wasnt very detailed, the additional 
comments the surveyor has provided, and the extra photos, have persuaded me that the 
damage to the guttering and to the roof were more likely than not caused by wear and tear. 
So overall Im satisfied that esures decision to decline to pay Mr M and Xs claim is 
reasonable. And I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
I have also considered Mr M and Xs complaint about the incorrect pricing of their renewal 
premium. esure said they made an error with the calculation, which they corrected. While I 
acknowledge that Mr M and X felt they had to find a new insurer, I also note that no 
overpayment was made. So although our investigator recommended that esure should pay 
some compensation to Mr M and X for the inconvenience of changing policies, I dont agree 
compensation is warranted here. I say this because I consider that it was likely that Mr M 
and X would look for a new insurer anyway, given their unhappiness with esure over their 
claim. Therefore Im not persuaded that the incorrect renewal premium had any impact on 
them.Response to my provisional decision 
esure accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr M and X said they were extremely disappointed with my decision. They felt that the 
severity of the storm was the main cause of the damage. And that the guttering wouldnt 
have needed to be replaced at that time if it werent for the storm. 
Mr M and X maintained that esures surveyor had told them that if he approved their claim 
and esure disagreed with his findings, he would be personally liable to cover the costs of the 
claim. They said his subsequent statement to this service which contradicted this was an 
outright lie. 
Mr M and X said that the Homebuyers report was the most common level of survey carried 
out by house buyers. They felt it took into account the repairs or replacements the property 
needed. And that theyd been responsible property owners who had fulfilled their obligations 
to maintain their property. They didnt feel that they should have to meet what they felt was 
esures requirement for the whole roof/gutters to be in pristine condition.
Mr M and X questioned whether properties of a certain age could actually be insured. They 
said it was inevitable that older properties would have fixtures and fittings which werent in 
pristine condition as they felt esure had required.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I carefully considered each of Mr M and Xs points. But Im not persuaded to change my 
opinion. Ill explain why.
My provisional decision already addressed Mr M and Xs first point about whether the storm 
was the main cause of the damage, so I wont consider that again here.
I first considered Mr M and Xs point about what they said esures surveyor said. While I 
acknowledge how strongly Mr M and X have made this point, both esure and the surveyor 
refute that he said this. As I have no way of knowing exactly what was said, it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint on this point. 
I next considered their point about whether their property needed to be in pristine condition 
in order for any claim to be paid by esure. While I acknowledge that esure did at one stage 
state that the Homebuyers report didnt guarantee that the whole roof and the gutters were 
in pristine condition, I dont agree that this was a requirement on Mr M and X before esure 
would pay any claim. I say this because in reality, Mr M and Xs claim wouldve been paid if 
esure had been satisfied that the damage met all three storm conditions. But they didnt 
consider that the damage was fully consistent with storm damage. And they also didnt 
consider that the storm was the dominant cause of damage. I explained in my provisional 
decision why I agreed with esures analysis here. Therefore I felt that the claim had been 
fairly declined.
I finally considered Mr M and Xs point about whether properties of a certain age could 
actually be insured. I understand why they said this, given theyve explained they believe 
that theyd done everything they couldve been expected to do to maintain their property 
after receiving their Homebuyers report. But I dont agree that they did. I noted in my provisional decision that the full report stated that some of the slates on the 
property were clipped. And that Mr M and X would need to maintain their roof especially 
following high winds. Ive seen no evidence that they did this. Nor have I seen any evidence 
that they arranged for a fuller assessment of the condition of the roof or the guttering than 
the basic assessment that was carried out from the ground for the Homebuyers report. I 
also note that Mr M and X were told that all of the guttering would need to be replaced, not 
just the sections which were removed. Based on all these points, Im persuaded that more 
couldve been done to maintain the property.
It is also worth noting that  regardless of the age of a property being insured - if a 
policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by one of the 
policy perils, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can rely one of the policy 
exclusions to defeat it. This is what has happened in this case.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman