DRN-2397222
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VM) pursued her to repay a debt 
that it should have written off following completion of a debt relief order (DRO).
What happened
Mrs S took out a loan to pay for a mobile phone with VM in October 2016. Mrs S defaulted 
on the agreement in March 2017. In December 2017 Mrs S applied for a DRO and included 
the debt to VM in her application. The DRO was approved on 25 January 2018. 
Mrs S said that after the moratorium period ended in January 2019 the debt should have 
been written off but VM continued to pursue her.
VM said that the debt was incurred before Mrs S entered the DRO and it was entitled to 
pursue her after the end of the moratorium period.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint and recommended that it was upheld. They 
concluded that the evidence provided from Mrs S showed that the debt to VM was included 
within the DRO and so at the conclusion of the DRO the debt should have been written off. 
The investigator thought that VMs actions had caused Mrs S considerable trouble and upset 
and recommended VM pay Mrs s £200 compensation to reflect this and remove any entries 
from her credit file. 
VM agreed with the investigator. Mrs S thought that the amount of compensation was too 
low and provided further information about the impact VMs actions had on her personal 
relationships and her mental health. The investigator reconsidered their view and thought 
that £500 would be fair and reasonable. VM didnt reply. So as the case hasnt been 
resolved informally it has been passed to me to make a final decision. This is the last stage 
in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
I can see from the evidence provided that Mrs S included the debt to VM in her application 
for a DRO. There is no evidence that Mrs S did not satisfactorily comply with that order so at 
the end of the moratorium period the debt to VM should have been written off.
VM should not have pursued Mrs S for this debt and it appears from the response to this 
service that VM agrees.
I dont doubt that it was upsetting and distressing for Mrs S to be dealing with this matter 
after she had taken steps to put her finances back in order and deal with her debts. I can see 
that it has been frustrating for Mrs S to deal with VM and it isnt clear why this was not swiftly 
resolved.
Mrs S has explained that this has caused her considerable anxiety and has exacerbated her 
mental health difficulties. In addition, it has placed a strain on her relationship. 
VM has not responded which has added to the delay in getting the matter resolved.
Putting things right
In these circumstances I agree with the investigator that £500 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
VM should pay Mrs S this amount and also take steps to remove any adverse information 
from her credit file that it has recorded about this debt after the DRO was granted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited 
should put things right by doing as I have set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman