DRN-3123292
The complaint
Mr H complains about a guarantor loan provided to him by TFS Loans Limited, (TFS), 
which he says was unaffordable. 
What happened
TFS provided Mr H with a loan of £12,000 on 2 December 2016. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Mr H failed to make his repayments. 
The interest rate was 16.3% (29.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 60 monthly 
repayments of £362.70. If Mr H made each payment when it was due, hed pay £21,762 in 
total. According to the most recent information Ive seen, the loan hasnt yet been repaid. 
The loan was being used partly for debt consolidation to repay three payday loans and partly 
for home improvements.
Mr H said that he was in a cycle of payday loans and borrowing from family to pay for a 
gambling addiction. He had returned direct debit payments and wasnt in a position to borrow 
more money. No bank statements were requested from him. Hed made a few late payments 
on the loan and a payment was required from his guarantor.
In its final response letter, TFS concluded that it wasnt upholding Mr Hs complaint. It 
provided details about the information provided to it by Mr H. The lender said that it had 
assessed the affordability of the loan using the information Mr H had provided to it and the 
information on his credit file. It had verified Mr Hs income with an income verification system 
used by a credit reference agency. TFS said there was nothing on the credit checks to 
indicate any form of financial difficulty. Mr H was using the loan to repay his creditors and put 
himself into a much better financial position. TFS said Mr Hs remaining monthly disposable 
income, after the new loan repayment, was £956.70 per month. If Mr H repaid the three 
payday loans, he would have had a remaining monthly amount of £2,291.70 to spend which 
deemed the loan affordable for Mr H. TFS also said that Mr Hs gambling transactions were 
more than covered by his disposable income each month.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He said that 
TFS didnt do enough to verify that Mr H could sustainably afford this loan. He thought it 
shouldve obtained evidence to provide a clear picture of his actual financial situation. As 
TFS didnt do that, he didnt think its checks were reasonable and proportionate. The 
investigator had reviewed Mr Hs bank statements and said that if TFS had conducted 
reasonable and proportionate checks it would have found that the loan was not sustainably 
affordable for Mr H, despite this loan clearing some of his debts.
TFS disagreed with the investigators view. It said that as Mr H was consolidating some of 
his debt, this would allow him to manage his monthly expenditure. He might have had an 
issue with managing his finances, but he didnt have an affordability issue. TFS referred to 
the investigator saying that some of Mr Hs mortgage payments had been returned, but it 
said that this didnt mean that the payments werent made. Its credit check showed one of 
the payments as made. TFS also said that all of Mr Hs active credit showed as managed 
with no financial difficulties. It also said that Mr H had managed his loan account with it. In 
addition, TFS said that the loan application was approved based on the information provided 
by Mr H and a number of discussions took place to determine the details were accurate. TFS 
hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able to afford the loan and it was entitled 
to rely on what it had been told. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When TFS lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Mr H could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr H. So even in this case 
where Mr H had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if he couldnt, this didnt 
absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Mr H could meet his repayments without 
undue difficulty.
In general, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been 
more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have considered the 
following questions:- Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
As set out above, TFS gathered some information from Mr H about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. Ive listened to recordings of the calls between Mr H and 
TFS in which Mr H provided information about his expenses. TFS also carried out a credit 
check.
TFSs monthly income and expenditure details form showed Mr Hs monthly income as 
£4,260 and his total regular monthly expenditure (including TFSs loan repayment of 
£362.70) was shown as £3,303.30 if Mr H didnt consolidate his debts. Mr H said that he 
wanted to use the loan for debt consolidation to repay three payday loans totalling around 
£5,700. He also said he was using TFSs loan for home improvements. TFS calculated      
Mr Hs disposable income as £2,291.70 if he repaid the three debts and £956.70 if he didnt 
repay them. TFS said that Mr Hs disposable income deemed the loan to be affordable.
I can see why TFS would think the loan repayments would be affordable based on what it 
had calculated. But I think it should have gathered more information than it did for the 
following reasons.
Im concerned that TFS appears to have relied on Mr Hs declared expenditure without 
verifying it. CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) 
the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer;
I think it would have been proportionate here for TFS to have verified Mr Hs actual 
expenditure.
Ive also reviewed TFSs credit report. TFS would have been aware from this that Mr H had a 
total credit balance of £224,641 outstanding which included a mortgage balance of nearly 
£213,000. The report showed that Mr H had four defaulted accounts from 2012 and 2013.  
Three of the defaulted accounts had been repaid. One account remained unpaid but was 
subject to a dispute. I dont think these defaults ought to have caused TFS additional 
concerns in view of their age. And I dont think it was unreasonable for TFS to be more 
interested in Mr Hs more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the 
loan was sustainable.
The credit report also showed that Mr H had a hire purchase agreement and a credit card 
balance which was £80 under the credit limit of £1,250. More worryingly, the credit report shows that in the 12 months prior to taking out TFSs loan, 
Mr H had borrowed eleven loans which appeared to be short term loans, although they were 
not all described as such. Hed needed to borrow a short term loan every month except 
August 2016 (albeit hed borrowed a loan on 30 July 2016) and November 2016. I think this 
information is at odds with the level of disposable income TFS said Mr H had each month. 
The most recent short term loan was taken out just two months before the loan application 
and had a relatively large balance of £1,817. Three of the loans in the five months prior to 
the loan application had been taken out very shortly after Mr H had repaid a previous one. 
This suggests that Mr H had needed to borrow in order to fill a hole in his finances that was 
made by making a loan repayment. This isnt a sustainable form of borrowing. The credit 
checks also showed that Mr H was taking out payday loans regularly throughout 2014 and 
2015.
I think the regularity and extent of Mr Hs short term borrowing ought to have caused TFS 
concerns about how Mr H was managing his money. I also think it might have been 
concerned as to why someone with such a large proportion of available income (according to 
TFSs assessment of Mr Hs disposable income) would need to borrow so much expensive 
credit so regularly. And, I think TFS ought to have been concerned about Mr Hs ability to 
repay its loan out of his usual means, without borrowing, as it didnt appear he was 
managing to do so with his existing debt. 
TFS was also aware that its credit checks didnt show all of Mr Hs credit commitments. Mr H 
had told it he wanted to repay two relatively large payday loans which didnt appear on its 
credit checks. And during a call between TFS and Mr H on 1 December 2016, TFSs agent 
told Mr H that payday loans didnt tend to come up on credit searches.  
I can also see that Mr H was increasing his total indebtedness by taking TFSs loan. Whilst 
Mr H said that £5,700 from the £12,000 loan was being used to repay three payday loans, 
he needed £21,672 to repay TFSs loan. So, it appears that his total indebtedness was being 
significantly increased as well as the time hed be indebted for.
Simply performing credit checks isnt enough. A lender needs to react appropriately to the 
information that any checks show. Mr H was entering into a relatively long and expensive 
loan agreement. He was entering into a commitment to make his monthly loan repayments 
for 60 months and was, after all, committing to repay £21,672 over that period. 
So, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate here for TFS to gather further 
information about Mr Hs finances and to verify his actual monthly expenditure. It could have 
done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr H, asking for copies of bills 
and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing 
credit commitments. As I cant see it did this, I dont think the checks TFS carried out before 
providing Mr H with his loan were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself doesn't mean that Mr Hs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown TFS that Mr H 
couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did TFS make a 
fair lending decision when it provided Mr H with a loan? 
Mr H has provided us with his bank statements from around the time he applied for this loan. 
Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that TFS should have done. But I think 
looking at these gives me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. Had it 
sought some verification of Mr Hs spending, I think TFS wouldve been in a better position to 
understand Mr Hs financial situation before it decided to lend to him. I understand that TFS has now seen Mr Hs bank statements which were supplied to it following his complaint. It 
will have seen that Mr Hs income was around the amount Mr H had declared to TFS.
But TFS will also have seen from the statements that Mr H was having significant difficulties  
managing his finances. He had returned payments each month from September 2016 to 
December 2016. Hed told TFS that he had returned payments when he went on holiday and 
forgot to transfer money to cover his expenses. But there were also returned payments at 
other times. I also note that Mr H hadnt paid his mortgage in October 2016 and      
November 2016.  TFS said that its credit check showed the mortgage as paid, but the credit 
check record had been updated on 13 November 2016 and may not have covered the 
October 2016 payment, and didnt cover the November 2016 payment. I also cant see on 
the bank statements Ive seen that those mortgage payments were made from his current 
account.
Ive also seen on the bank statements that Mr H appeared to be reliant on payday loans to 
supplement his income. From August to November 2016, he borrowed an average of 
£3,257.50 in payday loans each month. As Mr H was borrowing a significant amount from 
short term loan providers each month just to fund his existing expenditure and credit 
commitments, I think there was a very real prospect that Mr H would need to borrow again in 
order to repay his new loan and that would likely have a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
So, if TFS had made further checks, I think it would have been clear to the lender that Mr H 
was spending beyond his means and had been for some time, and that further credit was 
likely to add to his indebtedness. I can see that Mr H continued to borrow from short term 
lenders shortly after taking out TFSs loan. Within 20 days hed borrowed a payday loan for 
£2,225, and I think this was foreseeable. 
TFS said that Mr H might have had an issue with managing his finances, but he didnt have 
an affordability issue. It seems to me that TFS was focussing on its calculation of whether 
the loan was affordable for Mr H on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required 
to establish whether Mr H could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether 
the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they are 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
TFS also said that Mr H was using the loan to repay his creditors and put himself into a 
much better financial position. It also said that as Mr H was consolidating some of his debt, 
this would allow him to manage his monthly expenditure. But, this assumed Mr Hs need for 
credit wasnt an ongoing one and I think his reliance on expensive short term loans to meet 
his existing costs suggested that this wasnt a reasonable assumption. 
I also note that Mr H had spent a relatively large amount on gambling transactions in             
October 2016 when his gambling transactions amounted to around £2,697. But I cant see 
any gambling transactions on the bank statements in August 2016. And in September 2016 
and November 2016 the gambling spend was substantially less. TFS said that Mr Hs 
gambling transactions were more than covered by his disposable income each month 
although I can see that wasnt the case in October 2016 where Mr Hs gambling spend 
exceeded the disposable income calculated by TFS of £2,291.70 (if Mr H hadnt 
consolidated his debts with the loan).   I note that TFS said that Mr H had managed its loan. But Mr H said that hed made some 
late payments and his guarantor had made a payment. So, it appears from what Mr H said, 
that he has had some payment problems with the loan and hadnt managed the loan as well 
as TFS had said.
Altogether, I think further checks on Mr Hs circumstances wouldnt have provided any 
reassurance to TFS that he would have managed his repayments sustainably or that the 
loan was suitable for him. And I think TFS ought reasonably to have realised that it was 
unlikely that Mr H wouldve been able to sustainably repay his loan. So, it should reasonably 
have concluded that it treated Mr H unfairly when it agreed to lend to him. And so, I think it 
was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him on this occasion. I think Mr H has lost out 
financially through paying interest and charges under this agreement and TFS needs to put 
this right for him as follows. 
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do
I understand that Mr Hs loan hasnt yet been repaid. I think its fair that he repays the 
principal amount of £12,000 he borrowed as hes had the use of this money, but I dont think 
he should be liable for any interest or charges associated with the loan. 
TFS should put things right for Mr H as follows.
- TFS needs to ensure that Mr H only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In 
other words, he should not pay any interest or charges for this loan. So, TFS 
should remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the account from when it 
was opened.
- Treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan.
- If this results in Mr H having made overpayments, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
- If an outstanding principal balance remains then TFS should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr H, bearing in mind its obligation to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
- Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give  
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I  
order TFS Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what TFS needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman