DRN-2774265
The complaint
Mrs L complains that when an appointed representative of HL Partnership Limited (HL) 
recommended life and serious illness cover for a mortgage, they shouldve also 
recommended a protection policy to provide an income if either she or her late husband 
died.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L met with an appointed representative of HL in 2017 and completed a mortgage 
and insurance factfind. HL recommended a joint life mortgage protection policy to cover the 
new mortgage and term. The policy included life cover should either Mr or Mrs L die, 
terminal illness benefit, and serious illness cover on both lives.
Mr L passed away in May 2020. Mrs L complained to HL that they shouldve assessed all 
their protection needs at the time of the mortgage. She says that HLs failure to address a 
need for family protection has left her with no income to support her family.
HL provided a final response in March 2021. They didnt uphold the complaint and said the 
demands and needs agreed at the meeting were for protection for the new mortgage, and 
this is what they had put in place. HL said theyd sent Mr L an email with their 
recommendations after agreeing the need for term assurance and serious illness cover for 
the mortgage. They said Mr L emailed to tell them he and Mrs L agreed to proceed on this 
basis.
As Mrs L wasnt happy with the final response from HL, she brought her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for her and thought that HL hadnt done 
anything wrong. Our investigator thought HL had addressed the protection needs agreed 
with Mr and Mrs L at the time.
Mrs L didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr L died last year and I empathise with the financial position Mrs L finds 
herself in, and I appreciate the last 12-months will have been difficult for Mrs L and her 
children. However, for very much the same reasons as our investigator, I dont consider HL 
have done anything wrong and I wont be upholding the complaint. I will now explain why.
Mrs L says the Initial Disclosure Document (IDD) HL provided said they had a responsibility 
to provide an assessment for Mr and Mrs Ls protection needs. Mrs L says if HL had 
assessed all their protection needs they wouldve taken additional cover and she wouldnt 
now be experiencing financial difficulties. HL say their representative completed a mortgage 
and insurance factfind and agreed with Mr and Mrs L their need was for life and serious 
illness cover to protect the new mortgage. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who regulate HL, provide guidance on what it 
expects from a business when assessing the demands and needs of a customer. The 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says HL must agree and specify, 
based on information provided by the customer, the demands and needs of that customer. In 
this case, HL collected information from Mr and Mrs L using a mortgage and insurance 
factfind and assessed their demands and needs, as the IDD said they would. The factfind 
records Mr and Mrs L agreed life cover was important to protect the new mortgage. Other 
sections of the form, including income protection cover and accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover dont highlight any other agreed need.
ICOBS also says HL must communicate a statement of the demands and needs to the 
customer before a contract starts, and that HL must ensure any recommendations are 
consistent with a customers insurance demands and needs.
Mrs L highlighted that ICOBS 5.3.2 (1a) says HL shouldve established Mr and Mrs Ls 
demands and needs by using information readily available to HL (not simply the needs 
identified by the customer). However, the same section also says HL need not consider 
alternatives to policies nor customer needs that arent relevant to the type of policy in which 
the customer is interested. In this case, the information recorded in the factfind, and the 
email to Mr L sent to HL accepting the recommendations, persuade me Mr and Mrs L didnt 
have an interest in other protection at the time. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied HL agreed specific demands and needs based on 
the information Mr and Mrs L provided. The factfind focused on the immediate demands and 
needs at that time and records the mortgage amount and term. Then, after agreeing the 
demands and needs, HL provided a statement of their specific recommendations to Mr and 
Mrs L before the insurance was concluded. This provided an opportunity for Mr and Mrs L to 
be sure the recommendations met the demands and needs theyd agreed with HL. An email 
from Mr L confirmed he and Mrs L accepted that they did. 
Mrs L says that ICOBS section 5.3.2 (1c) requires HL to inform a customer of any needs and 
demands that arent met. Mrs L has researched the market for additional life cover that 
wouldve provided a family income when Mr L passed away and says they wouldve 
purchased it at the time if recommended. However, Im satisfied the evidence persuades me 
this wasnt an agreed demand or need at the time and there was no requirement for HL to 
provide advice in this area.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman