DRN-3673234
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr R complain about esure Insurance Limited (esure). Their complaint is about 
delays in assessing a claim for damage to the driveway and garden of their property from an 
accident in which a vehicle hit a wall at their property. 
References to esure include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims.
This decision relates to esures handling of that part of Mrs K and Mr Rs claim for damage to 
the driveway and garden of their property up to the point of their final response in May 2022. 
It doesnt cover other aspects of the claim, including damage to the wall and gate of their 
property, which was the subject of a previous, separate complaint to this service.
Im also aware of discussions about Mrs K and Mr Rs claim for damage to the driveway and 
garden after esures final response. However, Ive not seen any correspondence between 
esure and Mrs K and Mr R on this issue. From what I have seen, it appears Mrs K and Mr R 
havent made a complaint to esure about that aspect of the claim. Nor have esure treated 
this aspect as a complaint, so they havent issued a final response. As such, Ive not 
considered this aspect in this decision.
What happened
The details of what happened are well known to both Mrs K and Mr R and esure, having 
been covered in the previous complaint to this service. So, Ill only set out in summary what 
happened in this case. 
In March 2021 a vehicle hit the wall at the front of Mrs K and Mr Rs property, causing 
damage. esure appointed a firm (B) to assess the damage. After discussions between esure, 
B and Mrs K and Mr R, esure offered a cash settlement to settle the claim (which was 
subsequently increased). 
However, Mrs K and Mr R were unhappy at the offer and the time taken to assess the claim, 
so complained to esure. esure upheld the complaint in part, awarding £100 in compensation 
for delays in considering the complaint. But they didnt uphold the part of the complaint about 
the settlement value theyd offered, as they were awaiting further information about the 
quotes obtained by Mrs K and Mr R to repair the damage. 
Unhappy at esures final response to their complaint, Mrs K and Mr R complained to this 
service. Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding esure hadnt acted fairly. She 
thought the settlement needed to be reassessed, including any damage to the driveway and 
lawn. She also thought esure should pay a further £200 in compensation in addition to the 
£100 theyd awarded, for incomplete claim assessment (£100); poor customer service (£50); 
and delays not already compensated for (£50). Esure accepted the investigators view.
In subsequent discussions, esure accepted our investigators view they should reassess the 
damage to the driveway and lawn once debris from the accident had been removed. 
However, there were delays in arranging for this to happen as B wouldnt attend to remove 
the debris. To progress matters, esure asked Mrs K and Mr R to provide an estimate of the 
cost [from their builder] of removing the debris for them to consider. Unhappy at the delay, 
Mrs K and Mr R made a new complaint to esure.
In their final response in May 2022, esure acknowledged it had taken longer to progress this 
element of the claim. By way of an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs 
K and Mr R they awarded a further £150 in compensation (in addition to the compensation of 
£300 under the earlier complaint).
Mrs K and Mr R then complained to this service, unhappy at esures response and the 
continuing delays in assessing their claim. They thought it would be clear (once the debris 
was cleared) there was damage to the driveway and lawn from the accident. They wanted 
the work to begin straight away.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding esure didnt need to take any further 
action. He thought esures award of £150 compensation was reasonable and in line with 
what he would expect in the circumstances of the case.
Mrs K and Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They didnt think £150 was sufficient compensation for esures handling of the 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether esure have acted fairly towards Mrs K and Mr R.
As set out earlier, this decision only covers esures handling of that part of Mrs K and Mr Rs 
claim from their earlier complaint to this service up to the point of esures final response 
issued in May 2022. 
Ive considered carefully whats happened and the views of both Mrs K and Mr R and of 
esure. On balance, I think esure have acted fairly and reasonably. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mrs K and Mr R, so Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion.
Looking at the sequence of events from our investigators view on Mrs K and Mr Rs earlier 
complaint (November 2021), esure initially asked B to arrange the removal of debris from the 
property so that an assessment of any damage to the driveway and lawn could be carried 
out. However, Bs contractors werent willing to re-attend the property because of previous 
issues between them and Mrs K and Mr R. While its not my role to assess the reasons for 
that, its clear this led to further delay. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable for esure 
to have asked Mrs K and Mr R to provide an estimate (from their builder) for the removal of 
the debris (which was provided and subsequently accepted).
On the compensation offered by esure, Ive considered what happened. Taking account of 
all the circumstances of the case for the period covered by this decision, I think esures 
award of £150 additional compensation is reasonable. So, I wont be asking them to 
increase the amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs K and Mr Rs 
complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman