DRN-2580978
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) have unfairly declined 
their claim for storm damage on their building insurance policy. They would like the claim 
settled and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Following a storm with high winds and rain Mr and Mrs K noticed a damp patch on a 
bedroom ceiling. They called Fairmead and a surveyor attended. He took photographs from 
ground level using a camera on a pole. The surveyor gave them a form saying the claim 
wasnt valid on which hed written No storm damage to the roof.  
Fairmead declined the claim for the roof. It said the damage was due to wear and tear, which 
the policy didnt cover. It said the internal damage was covered, but as the estimated repair 
cost was less than the policy excess of £300, no payment would be made. Mr and Mrs K 
spoke to a builder who said scaffolding was needed to carry out a proper inspection, but he 
felt storm damage was likely. Mr and Mrs K complained to Fairmead about the roof claim 
being declined.
Fairmead said the surveyor advised that water had entered via a defect on the top of the 
chimney which was wear and tear. Fairmead said it would consider any further evidence but 
a few weeks later it sent a final response letter rejecting the complaint confirming the issue 
was due to wear and tear.
 
Once on the roof, the builder said the problem was the lead flashing around the chimney, 
which was lifted and torn as result of the strong winds. He took photographs before securing 
the flashing. He said had water entered via the top of the chimney, as suggested by the 
surveyor, the damage would be from the inside of the chimney and not running on the 
outside of it. Mr and Mrs K say the builders report and photographs were provided to 
Fairmeads loss adjuster.
The builders total invoice was £1,020 of which £400 was for the internal repairs. Mr and Mrs 
K say after some debate Fairmead agreed to pay £100 towards the internal repairs, this 
being the amount over the excess on the policy. Mr and Mrs K say no repairs to the chimney 
were needed and there have been no problems since. But Fairmead refuses to accept the 
cause of the leak was misdiagnosed. 
Mr and Mrs K referred their complaint to our service. They said the roof was only 12 years 
old and they wanted Fairmead to pay the £620 balance of their repair bill for the roof and 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by poor service and being left to sort everything 
out themselves.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Fairmead had considered the 
evidence from its expert (the surveyor) and from the builder and didnt consider the damage 
was consistent with storm damage. She said it was entitled to rely on the opinion of its 
expert and to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree so it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 December 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
When we consider a complaint about a storm claim, there are three main issues we 
consider.
First, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? There isnt any dispute over this, and Fairmead has settled the claim in 
respect of the internal damage. 
Second, is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? Here 
Fairmead said there was no evidence of storm damage, but Mr and Mrs K say there was.
Third, were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? Its clear that the terms of 
the policy dont cover damage resulting from gradual causes like wear and tear. This type 
of exclusion is a very common condition in buildings insurance policies and isnt 
unreasonable.
There is some dispute over both the second and third questions. So, I needed to consider 
whether the damage to the roof is typical of a storm and that the storm was the main cause 
of the damage as Mr and Mrs K say or as a result of wear and tear as Fairmead say.
In this case the surveyor and builder disagreed on the damage and the source of the leak.
The surveyors report said:
the roof, chimney and flashing appears to be in reasonable condition with no 
obvious signs of where the water is getting in. 
It identifies a defect in the mortar or concrete flaunching that seals the top of the chimney 
breast. It continued that:
it is unclear what this defect is but this could be where the rain is getting in.
I thought this was inconclusive. 
The builders subsequent report refers to the defect as a crack and the photograph seems 
to show a piece of slate beneath it. He says that water wasnt entering the chimney. The 
builders other photographs show different angles from those taken by the surveyor and 
possibly only available once at roof level. These appear to show lifted and twisted lead 
flashing around part of the chimney breast. 
But I couldnt see any reference or comment about the builders report or photographs on 
Fairmeads file. 
I asked that these be sent to Fairmead and for any comments it had. It said it hadnt 
previously seen the builders report and sent it to the surveyor. The surveyor replied that the photographs hed taken didnt show any storm damage to the flashing and said the builder 
would need to: 
supply pictures of where he thinks the leak (sic) flashing had lifted but from the 
photos there is no lifting, therefore not storm damage. 
I asked if Fairmead could ask the surveyor to comment on the builders photographs.  
Fairmead then said its technical team had now reviewed the photographs and 
correspondence and felt that wear and tear was the defining cause not strong winds. It 
said:
The lead here is a bit of a mess but I wouldnt have said this was lifted by a storm, 
more that the storm has highlighted an issue with the lead that along with not having 
been secured in place properly (merely with some mortar) has come away due to 
thermal expansion and contraction over time.
But the surveyors initial view was that the roof, chimney and flashing appears to be in 
reasonable condition. He didnt say the roof didnt appear to be properly constructed as now 
suggested by Fairmead. He also said that lifting of lead suggests storm damage although he 
hasnt seen evidence of this.
The builders photographs do show lifted, twisted lead on one section of the chimney breast. 
But they dont appear to show the lead coming away from the mortar as Fairmeads 
explanation would seem to require if the flashing had not been secured in place properly. 
Fairmead didnt appear to have considered Mr & Mrs Ks evidence until now and this hasnt 
been fully reviewed by the surveyor. So, there were conflicting views from the experts. 
Having considered these comments, the reports and photographs I thought the lifted and 
twisted lead shown in the builders photographs was caused by the storm. I didnt think the 
evidence showed the flashing was inadequately installed or in such poor condition due to 
wear and tear to say that the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of the damage. 
So, at this stage I thought it was more likely than not that the storm was the main cause of 
the problem and the balance of the claim of £620 should be paid by Fairmead. It also 
appeared that Fairmead didnt properly consider Mr and Mrs Ks additional evidence which I 
thought had caused them unnecessary trouble and upset. I thought Fairmead should pay 
£150 in compensation for this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 14 January 2021.
Response to provisional decision
Mr and Mrs K said they agreed with my provisional decision.
Fairmead disagreed with my provisional decision. It said, it would have to stick with what 
our Surveyors are telling us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.Fairmead hasnt provided any further information or evidence. Here, the three experts 
disagree about the condition of the roof and the cause of the problem. 
The surveyor said the roof and flashing was in reasonable condition with no sign of storm 
damage and a defect on the chimney was to blame for the leak. He also said without lifted 
lead there isnt storm damage. 
The builder says the storm damaged the flashing, as shown in his photographs, and this 
caused the leak. Mr and Mrs K say with only the lead repaired there have been no further 
problems.
Fairmeadss technical team accepts the lead was damaged. But says inadequate installation 
of the flashing, was the primary cause of this damage not the storm. 
There isnt a dispute there was a storm with high winds. Ive considered the disputed 
evidence again. Im most persuaded by the surveyors appraisal of the roofs condition as 
reasonable and the builders photographs showing the lifted lead. The surveyor has 
confirmed that lifted lead is indicative of storm damage. So, I think it is more likely than not 
that the storm was the main cause of the damage to the flashing rather than poor 
installation. 
I think Fairmead should settle the claim and pay Mr and Mrs Ks repair costs of £620. I think 
Mr and Mrs K have suffered trouble and upset due to Fairmead not considering their claim 
fairly and it should pay them £150 compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited 
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to settle the claim and pay Mr and Mrs K £620 towards 
their repair costs and a further £150 in compensation for trouble and upset. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It should also give 
a certificate showing this if Mr and Mrs K ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman