DRN-3604754
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his insurer for his let property, AXA Insurance UK Plc, as it 
hasnt fully assessed or settled his claim made to it for damage found when his last tenants 
moved out in October 2019. 
What happened
In autumn 2019 the tenancy for Mr As property was coming to an end, so he tried to arrange 
to inspect the property. However, with no response from the tenants, Mr A visited and found 
they had left. He found that various damage had been done to the property, and that some 
items (fixtures, fittings and landlords contents) were missing. He made a claim and AXA 
appointed a loss adjuster. Following a visit to the property by the loss adjuster in late 
October 2019 Mr A was asked to present various evidence.
In May 2020 AXA decided that Mr A had presented it with enough evidence for it to be 
satisfied he had likely complied with policy conditions relating to the letting of the property. It 
said the claim had been made for malicious damage and there was a policy limit for that of 
£5,000. It later paid Mr A this sum. But when Mr A asked it to consider other damage, falling, 
he said, for cover under other events listed in the policy, AXA said formal claims for damage 
caused by other events had to be made. Mr A pointed out he had already provided an 
estimate for all the repairs. He also said he thought the relevant policy limit for the damage 
and claim AXA had accepted was £10,000 (not £5,000).
AXA reviewed maters. It said that it might consider damage caused by other events, but it 
would need to undertake an interview with Mr A first. Mr A was perplexed and frustrated by 
this. But he did try and accommodate a telephone interview, but the agreed date of this had 
to be cancelled. Mr A then said he didnt see why further investigations at that point were 
necessary. 
Our investigator felt that as multiple areas of damage had been identified by Mr A, it wasnt 
unreasonable for AXA to want to complete further investigations. Mr A remained unhappy, 
so his complaint was passed to me for consideration.
I felt the complaint should be upheld  that AXA should be progressing the claim for all 
outstanding damage. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views and give both 
parties a chance to respond. My provisional findings were:
further investigations
At the outset Ill explain that usually a policyholder needs to cooperate with an insurers 
reasonable investigations. And this service will often support an insurer where it has placed 
a claim on hold until it has had a chance to investigate reasonable concerns it has about 
either the claim or policy liability. But the operative word in both of those sentences is 
reasonable.
Here AXAs file shows that its main reason for wanting to meet with Mr A was because it felt 
the claim for damages, other than that caused maliciously, had only been raised by way of 
getting around the malicious damage limit of liability. If the other damage had only been 
raised in that way, Im not persuaded an interview would have been needed for AXA to 
consider its liability in that respect. If other damage had not been raised before then AXA 
would have been able to see this from its file  after all its loss adjuster had attended the 
property and taken photos of the damage in question.
But I dont think it is actually fair to say that an attempt has been made by Mr A to get around 
the malicious damage liability limit. Mr A says he only told AXA of damage during his first 
call with it  he didnt say what type of damage it was or where it might fall for under the 
policy. AXA hasnt presented that call recording in its submissions. But I dont need to hear 
what was said. Thats because AXAs own call notes support Mr As account. The call 
handler notes that it isnt clear whether the reported damage will fall for cover under the 
policy as malicious of accidental damage. Further theft, of contents as well as buildings 
items, is noted and reference is made to water damage. It seems to me it was only when 
AXAs loss adjuster visited the property that the adjuster chose to categorise the loss as 
falling under MD/theft by tenants and water damage. 
AXA also says that Mr A, despite stating he wants to claim under the policy for all these 
other types of damage or loss, hasnt formally presented claims for them  including that for 
water damage. Im not sure what it is that AXA would be expecting Mr A to provide. I see he 
told AXA he had damage, it noted the damage might reasonably fall for cover under a 
number of events covered by the policy, its loss adjuster visited to view the damage and 
Mr A presented a number of repair estimates. That is what I would expect to see in most 
claims, and sometimes I see far less detail presented by the policyholder, or actions taken 
by the insurer. All without any bar being raised by the insurer to considering the claims. 
I think AXA is being unreasonable by stating that formal claims for each area of loss need to 
be presented to it.
I know AXA has a concern about an email Mr A sent it. I can see why AXA would want to 
discuss this with him in person in the first instance. But Im not persuaded that this one 
enquiry should reasonably hold up or stall the progression of the claim. Not least as AXAs 
file shows that it could have dealt with this in another way  by asking Mr A to forward to it 
the original email. If AXA still wants to see the original email, it can ask Mr A to send it and 
he should cooperate with it. But if he no longer has it, then I think AXA just has to accept that 
it no longer exists, that its own poor handling of the claim has prevented it from being able to 
look at this issue further, and move on. 
moving the claims on
I think AXA must now assess the claim based on the detail it has. It clearly isnt looking to 
resolve the damage itself by carrying out repairs as it has already paid a cash settlement to 
Mr A of £5,000. So I think it must now asses the estimates Mr A presented against the 
damage found and noted by its adjuster. It can then set out what work, as detailed in the 
estimates, it thinks it is liable for, and under what cover. From there, and taking into account 
my comments below, AXA can decide what settlement it needs to make to Mr A.
AXA has paid Mr A £5,000 in respect of MD and theft by tenants. I understand that is the 
limit on the policy for this type of loss. But AXAs own file explains that the limit is applied 
separately to buildings and contents losses. And here it seems AXA at least believes there is 
malicious damage to and/or theft of both the buildings and contents. So paying Mr A just 
£5,000 doesnt seem to clearly meet the limit of AXAs liability for the losses he has suffered 
in this respect. So in completing the above assessment, AXA will need to determine how 
much the total loss for Mr A is for MD and theft for buildings and contents items. If the 
buildings items are less than £5,000 then any sum remaining to the total of the £5,000 
already paid can be off-set against the contents loss. But, if the buildings loss totals more than £5,000, then any loss to contents items by MD and theft by tenants, will have to be paid 
in full, up to the limit of £5,000. AXA is entitled to apply an excess for each section (buildings 
and contents)  but as is usually the case the excess gets applied to the loss for each 
section as a whole, not to the limit (which is the portion of the loss AXA is liable for). 
In thinking about MD, AXA shouldnt just assume that all damage listed in the estimates for 
repair and/or noted by its adjuster is most likely MD. AXA should bear in mind the nature of 
the damage as well as the policy wording and determine whether any damage actually falls 
for cover as accidental damage. For example, one cracked floor tile might be more likely to 
have been damaged accidentally than maliciously. If there are instances of accidental 
damage, I know AXA would like to apply an excess to each one. But, in this instance, the 
policy doesnt seem to allow for that. In any event, Im not persuaded that would be 
reasonable or in-line with this services approach to insurers applying excess amounts in this 
type of situation. I think that here AXA can only fairly and reasonably apply one excess for 
accidental damage.  
I can see that as the complaint with this service has been progressing, the parties have been 
discussing the water damage. I think AXA now needs to make an offer of settlement to Mr A. 
It can apply an excess. 
With all these areas of damage, once AXA has finalised its position on each, offering Mr A 
any further settlement it feels is reasonably due, if Mr A is unhappy with that, he can make a 
further complaint about the values on offer. I appreciate that this has been on-going for Mr A 
for some time and that hed rather it be concluded with me awarding him an amount to cover 
his losses. But I cant currently say what AXA must pay because the repair details and costs 
for relevant repairs have not yet been fleshed out or quantified. His estimates range roughly 
from £30,000 to £40,000 and relate in part to damage for which AXAs liability is capped to  
£10,000. So I cant reasonably just require AXA to pay for any one of the estimates. And 
because AXA has not yet given a view on what areas of cover the detailed repairs fall into, it 
would be unreasonable for me to jump that gun and decide that. AXA needs to take the first 
step in resolving the claim, and that is what Im going to require it to do.
loss of rent
I dont know at this time what the extent of AXAs liability for Mr As loss due to damage is. 
But I expect it is much more than the £5,000 it has so far settled with him for. And I dont 
think I can reasonably say Mr A has caused most of the delay in this claim. AXA, in my view, 
should have been considering this as more than just a malicious damage and theft claim 
from the outset. This is not an unusual type of claim for this type of cover and I have no idea 
why AXA has approached it in such a piecemeal and unreasonable way. I think that, to this 
point, which is roughly two years on from AXA settling part of the MD claim, it should be 
compensating Mr A for his loss suffered due to the delay caused by its poor claims handling. 
As such I think it should pay him an amount equivalent to two years lost rent. 
I know the claim has been ongoing for longer than this  but it is the type of claim that would 
always take a considerable while to progress, and I think a reasonable delay occurred when 
AXA was asking Mr A to provide it details about how the property was let. But after this 
I think AXA began to act unreasonably, and if it hadnt the claim would likely have been 
settled in short order. So I think two years lost rent as compensation for financial loss 
caused by delay is fairly and reasonably due. Because this is a compensation award, and 
because I cant be certain exactly when AXA would have settled the claim and the property 
would have been relet, Im not going to award interest.
The above is my view on what AXA must do to make up for Mr As loss which has resulted 
from the delay it has caused. But Mr A has policy cover for lost rent too. To date AXA has yet to assess and give a final position to Mr A on its liability to him under the policy for lost 
rent. I know some discussions have taken place and AXA has put forward some preliminary 
thoughts on what it thinks its extent of liability might be. However, AXA needs to make a full 
assessment of its liability for lost rent once its liability for damage is known. If, once Mr A has 
AXAs final position on what lost rent it is going to pay him and why, and bearing in mind the 
compensation Ive awarded for rent lost due to delay, Mr A is unhappy about AXAs policy 
decision, he can make a further complaint in that respect. 
compensation
I can see that this has been frustrating for Mr A. But I also note he has used a representative 
at times to handle the claim with AXA for him which will have somewhat limited his 
inconvenience. That said I accept that, due to AXAs failure to handle this claim fairly and in 
a reasonably timely manner, hes had worry over a prolonged period and he also had to try 
and accommodate its request for an interview. I think AXA should pay him £750 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Mr A said he accepted my findings. AXA said it disagreed with them.
In summary AXAs objections were:
It had not delayed the claim  it is unsure how I could conclude that if I had read its 
submissions.
Although it agrees there was a delay of four months 31 July  25 November 2020.
Otherwise delays were beyond its control.
My award effectively punishes it for the time taken for the complaint to have been made 
and progressed. 
It was wrong for me to try and dictate to it how to investigate a claim and apply policy 
excesses. 
It cant be that different items are damaged at the same time, by the same cause. Saying 
that only one excess can be charged is therefore wrong in law and punishes AXA. 
It is up to Mr A to prove there is a claim but Mr A hasnt done that.
He had failed to provide any evidence to it as to the previous condition of the property.
As he hasnt got inspection logs or photos to evidence the condition of the house, the 
standard approach requires that he is interviewed.
Interviewing was necessary because photos taken by the loss adjuster clearly showed 
malicious damage but arguments about other areas of cover were raised.
My direction for it to not interview Mr A, makes it difficult for it to assess this which is key 
to the claim.
It was wrong for me to conclude the cracked tile in the bathroom had resulted from 
accidental damage.
It had, technically, not asked for the original email it had concerns about to be forwarded 
to it  but it would have been reasonable for Mr A to respond to it by doing exactly that.
Instead hes unreasonably avoided AXA on this subject.
Id been unfair by setting out what should happen should the email no longer be 
available.
It feels that overall my findings give little regard to its position and generally penalises it 
for the delays of others.
It would like me to conclude that Mr A must properly present his claim and that it is 
entitled to interview Mr A before deciding the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the submissions made by both AXA and Mr A. And AXA will note that 
I specifically stated that, in my view, it had acted reasonably and not caused any delay 
during the first seven or eight months of the claim. Ive also explained why I felt, after this 
time, that AXA began to act unreasonably. And it was those unreasonable actions, I believe, 
that then caused the claim to be delayed and to progress to the complaint Mr A made.
It is most definitely part of my role to decide whether or not an insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably. And that applies to both its claim handling activity, including investigations, and 
application of the policy terms, including those related to excess.
In terms of applying policy excesses, the applicable policy wording is always taken into 
account. Here it allows for an excess per claim, not per area or instance of damage. And, 
whilst AXA clearly disagrees with this approach, the Financial Ombudsman often doesnt find 
it fair for an insurer to apply an excess to every item damaged. Effectively a policyholder 
would often then not be able to benefit from the cover the insurer was being paid for.  
A policyholder, and Mr A is no different, does not have to prove their entire claim at first 
notice. Rather they must show that, on the face of it, their property has likely suffered 
damage covered by the policy. Mr A has done that  and in terms of that which AXA 
accepted was malicious damage, the claim was accepted and settled. Im not persuaded 
AXA had concerns about when the damage was done  if it had it would have wanted that 
detail before settling the malicious damage element. If Mr A had suddenly said more items 
and/or areas were damaged my view on this might be different. But the damage being 
claimed for, that AXA had already settled for in part, did not change. All Mr A sought to do 
was make sure he had received the full benefit of the policy for the damage always in 
question. I think AXA acted unreasonably in response to that.
I did not make any decision about how the tile was damaged. AXA will likely note from my 
findings copied above that I used the tile as an example to illustrate what accidental damage 
might look like. AXA, in reply, says there is evidence the tile was not damaged accidentally. 
Im glad to see that type of assessment  that is exactly the type of reasonable assessment 
Id expect an insurer to complete when progressing a claim for damage like this.  
I note AXA did not take a reasonable opportunity available to it to ask for the email to be 
forwarded to it. Whilst AXA was dealing with a professional representing Mr A at that point, 
I dont think AXA can fairly dismiss its failing in this respect by passing the blame on the 
representative for not thinking to volunteer that detail in response. AXA knew it could have 
asked for it, that that was a reasonable way forwards, but it did not. The passage of time 
might mean the original email no longer exists. And for my decision to be workable in 
practice I had to think about what should happen in that event.
My decision has taken AXAs side of things into account. But I think it is fair to say that my 
independent assessment differs from its own view of how it has handled things. But I can 
assure both parties that my findings do not seek to punish or favour either one. Rather, 
having assessed what happened, and found that AXA failed Mr A, I have sought to mitigate 
the effects of that failure. I remain of the view that my provisionally suggested awards, in the 
circumstances, do that fairly and reasonably. As such, and having carefully reviewed 
matters, my provisional findings and awards have not changed. They, along with my further 
findings set out her, are now the findings and awards of this. My final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to:Progress Mr As claims without insisting on interviewing him  but if it wants to ask him to 
forward it a particular email it can. The claims should still be progressed in the meantime 
and if Mr A doesnt have that email any more then AXA will have to accept that it has lost 
the chance to investigate this matter further.
The claims should be progressed in line with the policy wording and my comments set 
out above.
Pay Mr A an amount equivalent to two years rental income to compensate him for 
income lost due to the delays it caused.
Pay Mr A £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to him by its poor 
claims handling.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman