DRN-3641568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about a loan that they say was mis-sold to them by GE 
Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money). They also say that GE Money unfairly 
turned down their claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In November 2008, Mr and Mrs P took out a timeshare with a timeshare provider. The 
membership was funded using a loan from GE Money. The timeshare provider was named 
as the intermediary on the loan agreement. The loan was drawn down in December 2008 
and paid off in full in February 2011.
In July 2021, Mr and Mrs P wrote to GE Money about the loan. They said they were aware 
that there was a requirement under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) 
that loan intermediaries were authorised and regulated, but they could not see who the 
intermediary on their loan was. They also asked for other information to be provided to them. 
In September 2021, GE Money responded to Mr and Mrs P to explain that the intermediary 
held the right Office of Fair Trading (OFT) license at the time the loan was arranged. It also 
said that any claim that could be made about that would have been out of the time limits set 
under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) to make a claim.
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs Ps professional representative (PR) brought a complaint 
about GE Money to our service.1 It said the timeshare provider was not authorised to broker 
the loan and also raised further points about the timeshare, including that it had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P and that they were pressured into entering the agreement. 
PR made reference to a number of legal provisions that it said entitled Mr and Mrs P to make 
legal claims for compensation.
When the complaint was received, we contacted GE Money to ask for its position. It said 
that, as the February 2022 letter had raised new issues, it needed time to consider them. So, 
in June 2022 it set out its position on the new complaint points. In summary, it thought parts 
of the complaint had been made too late under the rules that govern how our service has the 
power to consider complaints. It thought parts of Mr and Mrs Ps concerns did not fall under 
the legal provisions that PR said applied to the claims it was making, but even if they did 
apply, any claim had been made too late under the provisions in the LA.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and, having done, so, did not think 
GE Money needed to do anything to compensate Mr and Mrs P. He said that any complaint 
that Mr and Mrs P could make that GE Money unfairly declined a claim under s.75 CCA did 
not fall under the jurisdiction of our service. He thought that, although a claim made under 
s.140A CCA fell within our jurisdiction, the claim Mr and Mrs P had was made too late under 
the provisions in the LA. Our investigator said that there was not sufficient evidence that 
Mr and Mrs P had been lent to irresponsibly. Finally, he said that the timeshare provider had 
1 The original letter sent in July 2021 was sent by Mr and Mrs P directly, so I do not know whether PR 
were involved with their complaint at that time.
the right authority to broker loans.
GE Money had nothing to add to our investigators view. However, PR, on Mr and Mrs Ps 
behalf, disagreed with what had been said and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint again.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P raised their complaint directly with GE Money in the first instance, questioning 
whether the broker of the loan was authorised. They did not raise any further points. GE 
Money answered those concerns and after receiving the final response PR raised further 
issues with our service about the actions of the broker, amongst other things. But as GE 
Money has now considered those wider points, I am able to consider the complaint despite it 
not being made to GE Money before it was referred to our service.
The claims under the CCA
In a separate decision, I have explained why our service is not able to consider 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint that their claim under s. 75 CCA was turned down. So in this 
decision I will only consider their complaint about their s.140A CCA claim.
PR says that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship due, amongst other things, to 
the actions of the timeshare provider. The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was 
held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time 
for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. Here the limitation period is six years. That is 
because the claim Mr and Mrs P wish to make is for repayment of sums they have paid to 
the loan, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to which s.9 LA applies. 
That meant Mr and Mrs P would have to bring an action within six years of February 2011 at 
the latest. As they did not do that, I think they brought their claim too late.
PR says that the relevant sections of the LA are not hard and fast rules in so far as from 
when the clock starts ticking in respect of the cause of action accruing. However, I think the 
LA can offer a complete defence to any claim Mr and Mrs P may have against GE Money 
and that is something that I must take into account. So, the LA does operate as a hard and 
fast rule if a claim is made outside of a limitation period. However, I have considered 
whether there is a reason why the limitation period might be extended.
Mr and Mrs P say that they were not aware there was a problem with the timeshare until 
sometime after it was purchased. However a lack of awareness is not something that stops 
the limitation period from running. PR has pointed to s.32 LA, which says that the limitation 
period can be different when facts that are relevant to a claimants cause of action are 
deliberately concealed from them or when the action is based on the fraud of the defendant. 
However, I cannot see that anything about their claim was concealed from Mr or Mrs P or 
that their claim under s.140A CCA is based on GE Moneys (or its statutory agents) fraud. 
Further, PR says that, under the DISP rules, a consumer can make a complaint to a 
business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a consumer realised 
they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representative referred to set out the time 
limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a regulated financial 
activity. Those rules apply to FCA governed complaint handling, which in the current context, 
was a complaint that GE Money unfairly turned down their claim, under the CCA, about a regulated agreement. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was because it did 
not think it was legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I have considered 
that legislation. So DISP 2.8.2R does not extend the time to bring a claim in the way Mr and 
Mrs P's representative suggest.
Did GE Money properly assess Mr and Mrs Ps ability to repay the loan
Mr and Mrs P say that GE Money was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate 
credit assessment to determine whether they could afford to repay the loans. Our 
investigator said that he could not see any evidence that Mr and Mrs P found the loan 
unaffordable.
PR says that GE Money had strict obligations under the CONC section of the FCA 
Handbook and failed to undertake those obligations.  However, when considering a 
complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether the complainant has 
actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if GE Money did not do 
appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do something to 
put things right, I would need to see that Mr and Mrs P lost out as a result of its failings. Mr 
and Mrs P have provided no evidence whatsoever that they would have found, nor found it 
difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
Was the timeshare company authorised to broker loans?
PR argues that the loan was unenforceable as it was arranged without the proper formalities 
required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). In particular, there is 
a general prohibition that people can only carry on regulated activities in the UK if they are 
authorised to do so (s.19 FMSA) and agreements made through unauthorised people are 
unenforceable (s.27 FSMA). Finally, PR say that the sale did not meet the requirements of 
s.39 FSMA due to the possible self-employed status of the timeshare providers sales staff.
At the time the loan was arranged, the regulation of consumer credit activities did not fall 
under FCA regulation and neither the granting of the loan, nor brokering it, were regulated 
activities. It follows, FSMA did not apply to this sale.
However, both GE Money and our investigator, explained to PR that at the relevant time the 
timeshare provider held an OFT licence  the OFT being the body that regulated consumer 
credit. PR has not explained why it disagrees with this and I see no reason to consider this 
point further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against GE Money Consumer Lending Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman