DRN-1712370
The complaint
Mr W complained because Rooftop Mortgages Limited refused his proposal for repaying the 
arrears on his buy to let mortgage.
Mr W said hes willing to pay the arrears, but not the charges which accumulated.
What happened
Mr W missed his £490.93 monthly mortgage payment in early 2017. Rooftop sent arrears 
letters asking Mr W to get in touch. In July 2017, Mr W rang Rooftop. He said his tenants 
hadnt paid the rent and hed instructed a solicitor to evict them. He thought he had an 
arrangement in place to pay an extra £50 a month towards his arrears. Rooftop said there 
wasnt an arrangement in place, but it could consider it if Mr W completed an Income and 
Expenditure form with supporting documents. It sent him the form.
Mr W didnt return the completed form, so Rooftop wrote to confirm that it couldnt accept his 
proposal unless it had details of Mr Ws current financial circumstances. This was so it could 
know whether hed be able to maintain the proposed arrangement. Rooftops letter also 
explained that while the mortgage was in arrears, hed be charged admin fees. It asked Mr 
W to phone so they could discuss this.
Mr W didnt ring Rooftop with details of his financial circumstances. 
Over the next year, Rooftop sent arrears letters and instructed an agent to visit Mr W at his 
correspondence address and the property address. It wasnt able to contact him.
There was a phone call in August 2018, when Mr W told Rooftop it had previously been 
agreed hed just pay the monthly payment going forward. He said he was unhappy with the 
fees, and ended the call. 
Rooftop continued to write, and try to contact Mr W. The fees on his account continued to 
increase because of the arrears.
There were calls in early 2019, during which Mr W said he had a letter to confirm the 
arrangement to pay £50 had been accepted. Rooftop said this wasnt correct, and Mr W 
ended the call. 
Rooftop instructed further agent visits to Mr Ws correspondence and property addresses. Mr 
W complained. He told the agent the reason for the arrears was that he was providing 
money to family members abroad, which he hadnt previously told Rooftop. Mr W also said 
hed already given his Income and Expenditure details. Mr W said Rooftop had deliberately 
declined his proposal so it could charge more fees.
In its final response letter to Mr Ws complaint, Rooftop set out events and said it had tried to 
help Mr W, but it hadnt been able to because Mr W hadnt kept in regular contact and hadnt 
provided the necessary income and expenditure information. It reminded Mr W of the fees 
for accounts in arrears, and offered to consider an arrangement if Mr W completed the 
Income and Expenditure form.
In reply, Mr W complained about the fees, and made a data subject access request. Rooftop 
explained that the terms and conditions of Mr Ws mortgage allowed for fees to be applied to 
cover admin costs in excess of normal business costs. In Mr Ws case these were for arrears 
fees, field agent visits to the properties, and a returned direct debit. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that if Rooftop had agreed to 
his proposal to pay an extra £50 a month in 2017, he wouldnt have had to pay all the 
charges which had built up. He said hed pay the arrears but didnt want to pay the charges.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said Rooftop had made reasonable 
efforts to contact Mr W. He explained that while lenders are expected to treat customers in 
financial difficulty sympathetically for a residential property, this didnt apply to an investment 
property. He also said it was reasonable for Rooftop to refuse a payment arrangement when 
it didnt have full information about Mr Ws financial circumstances. And he pointed out that 
Rooftop had sent quarterly arrears statements confirming the arrears and charges  and Mr 
W ought to have contacted Rooftop sooner to address his arrears.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he had sent the financial information and Rooftop hadnt been 
honest. He said hed sent it by normal post over four years ago and didnt have evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what happened in July 2017 when Mr W suggested paying £50 a month extra 
to clear his arrears. I find that its entirely fair and reasonable for a lender to require full 
information about a borrowers financial circumstances, by completing an Income and 
Expenditure form, together with supporting documents. 
In his latest emails, Mr W has said he did provide the information required, but it went by 
ordinary post four years ago and he doesnt have evidence of this. I note, however, that Mr 
W hasnt consistently said this. At various points, hes said that the arrangement had already 
been agreed; that he didnt receive Rooftops Income and Expenditure form; and that 
Rooftop had declined his proposal deliberately in order to charge extra fees. 
Its clear from all the arrears letters, quarterly statements, field agent visits, and the few 
occasions when Mr W did speak to Rooftop, that Rooftop hadnt received the Income and 
Expenditure form and supporting documents. And if Mr W did send a completed Income and 
Expenditure form which didnt arrive, it would have been very simple for him to have sent 
another copy, when the problem was so quickly apparent. So I consider its unlikely that he 
did send the information.
Its correct that lenders are expected to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically 
for a residential property, but this doesnt apply to an investment property. But in any case, 
here, Mr W didnt provide Rooftop with any evidence that he was in financial difficulty  or 
any information at all about his financial circumstances.
So I find that Rooftop acted fairly towards Mr W. It hadnt received the necessary financial 
evidence to consider his proposal to repay his arrears, which it would have needed. Its 
certainly true that the various charges wouldnt have built up, if that proposal had been agreed  - provided Mr W had stuck to its terms. But I find that it wasnt Rooftops fault that Mr 
W failed to provide the information to enable Rooftop to consider the proposal. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws account set out the power to levy charges. And  Rooftop 
also reminded Mr W about this, in the multiple letters it sent to him. So I consider that 
Rooftop did its best to help Mr W, but he didnt co-operate. I therefore find that Rooftop didnt 
do anything wrong, and doesnt have to remove the charges as Mr W requests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman