DRN-1427080
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has dealt with a claim 
he made under his Corgi Home Care Plan.  
All references to RSA includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The light in Mr R's shower room was going on and off. As his policy provides cover for his 
electrics he contacted RSA to make a claim. An engineer was called out, who inspected the 
light fitting and concluded it wasn't something he could fix because the fitting of the light 
wasn't to the correct standard; condensation had leaked into the light; he couldn't get access 
to the wiring and he needed local authority permission to carry out repairs.  However, the 
engineer did remove and replace a bulb at cost to Mr R (it isn't clear if the engineer fitted it or 
not). 
Mr R was concerned about the report from the engineer as after the bulb was fitted the light 
worked correctly. He was distressed to find the engineer had reported access issues when 
there were none; that there was water leaking and condensation in the light fitting when 
there wasn't any and that he was put to the trouble of showing he was a leaseholder and so 
local council permission wouldn't be needed (as it hadn't been for other repairs carried out). 
Because of Mr R's concerns RSA arranged for a second engineer to attend the property. 
That engineer didn't find anything wrong with the light fitting. RSA upheld Mr R's complaint 
as things had gone wrong and offered him £40 compensation. But Mr R didn't think this was 
enough as RSA had defamed his character. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and ultimately asked RSA to pay compensation of 
£300 in total (inclusive of £40 already offered). She found Mr R had been put to the trouble 
of having different daily care needs as a result of the incorrect information given about his 
light fitting; it meant he wasn't able to use his shower for nearly a month as he was told it 
was unsafe. He was also put the trouble of providing information about his leaseholder 
status when he shouldn't have been as the policy was only available to homeowners, which 
should have been apparent to RSA.
RSA agreed to pay the additional compensation. But Mr R didn't think this went far enough 
and is looking for £1,000-£2,000 in compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has already agreed that the first engineer got things wrong when he inspected Mr R's 
light fitting. And it hasn't disputed that it ought to have known his homeowner status given 
the type of policy he has. I don't need to make any findings about whether something went wrong - all the parties agree it has.  So my consideration is about what compensation, if any, 
is appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I can see from the e-mails between RSA and Mr R that he was very distressed to find the 
engineer had reported access issues and felt he was being called a liar. But it seems to me 
the parties were corresponding at cross purposes; it was clear the engineer had access to 
inspect the light fitting, but it was the internal wiring and the wiring within the plaster that he 
didn't.  But Mr R wouldn't have been made to feel that way if RSA had explained things more 
clearly, and ultimately, if the first engineer had correctly diagnosed the issue as only being in 
relation to the bulb. 
I understand Mr R also had to make different daily care arrangements because the first 
engineer told him the light fitting was unsafe. It wasn't until the second engineer had 
inspected the fitting, nearly a month later, that he was told it was safe. I think that must have 
been particularly distressing for him, especially for that length of time. 
Mr R has been impacted by RSA's wrong doing, and so he should be fairly compensated for 
that. But I find his request for £1,000-£2,000 excessive. I would only make an award of that 
amount if Mr R had been caused substantial distress and inconvenience. I don't doubt this 
has been difficult and distressing for him, but having considered the matter carefully I find 
£300 (including the £40 already offered) to fairly reflect the trouble Mr R was put to.  
For the sake of completeness, the replacing of the bulb is not something covered by Mr R's 
policy. 
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mr R £300 in total for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc to pay Mr R £300 in total.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman