DRN-1574148
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank plc placed a default against her current account in June 
2017, when she feels this shouldve been registered earlier as shed entered into a debt 
management programme.
What happened
Ms M had a current account with TSB which had an overdraft. She began experiencing 
financial difficulties and approached a debt management company for help. She started 
making a regular monthly payment towards the overdraft balance in July 2015. This amount 
reduced in October 2015, and again in June 2016. TSB registered a default on Ms Ms 
current account in June 2017. 
In July 2019, Ms M complained. She said shed entered into a debt management programme 
in 2015 and the default marker TSB placed on her credit file should reflect this date, as that 
was when she began having financial difficulties. She said TSB had continued to apply 
interest and charges on her account until June 2016 and she believed that this was unfair. 
She said she hadnt missed a monthly payment other than when TSB transferred the debt to 
a third party in 2017. Ms M felt the later default marker would show on her credit record for 
longer than it otherwise would.
 
TSB said that its records showed that Ms M had a six-month, interest free repayment plan 
put in place in June 2016, after it received contact from the debt management company 
helping Ms M. But once this came to an end, it didnt receive any contact from Ms M or the 
debt management company to arrange a further plan. Ms M continued to make payments, 
but these werent enough to decrease the arrears on her account. It tried to contact Ms M 
about this, but it didnt receive any contact from her or the debt management company. It 
said her account had defaulted in June 2017 and it felt this had been done correctly.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that after the six-month interest freeze on Ms Ms account, no contact was made with 
TSB to arrange another payment plan and so interest and charges began being added 
again. The investigator said TSB had tried to get in contact with Ms M a number of times in 
the following months. Ms M told it that that the debt management company would be in 
touch, but TSB hadnt received any contact from it. The investigator thought TSB had 
correctly applied the default, and it was an accurate reflection of Ms Ms account.
 
Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she had two other creditors who had 
backdated her defaults, and that her debt management company had said that it had written 
to TSB. She said TSB hadnt been in contact with her directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office guidance from the time says that information reported 
on a persons credit file must be accurate, up-to-date and meet agreed quality standards. It 
also says that where a debt management programme has been accepted by a lender, this 
should be reflected in the information recorded with credit reference agencies and that a 
default would not normally be registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken. 
I appreciate that Ms M feels that TSB shouldve registered a default when she began 
experiencing problems in paying off her overdraft debt. But this wasnt something it was 
required to do, when the guidance indicates situations where a lender may register a default.
While I appreciate that with hindsight Ms M may now feel that TSB registering a default on 
her account wouldve a better option because it would stop appearing on her credit record 
sooner; Ms Ms repayments show that she remained actively engaged with TSB throughout. 
Their banking relationship hadnt broken down.
I can see from the account records that there are notes relating to the letters received from 
the debt management company, and these correspond with the dates that it has given Ms M 
about when it had contacted TSB. 
In June 2015, this correspondence related to a regular payment plan which would be interest 
bearing, so interest and fees carried on being applied. And Ms M was still using the account 
and the overdraft facility after this time. The statements show a number of outgoing faster 
payment transfers to an account with another bank, as well as a debit card payment. The 
next correspondence with the debt management company was in October 2015, with a 
reduced offer of repayment and then interest was frozen for a six-month period. 
A further reduced payment amount was offered in June 2016, and TSB accepted this, 
freezing the interest for another six-month period. It was when this ended that TSB 
attempted to contact Ms M about the remaining debt, as interest and charges began 
applying again, and the amount of her regular payment wasnt enough to cover these. 
The account notes show that Ms M was sent default notice and final demand letters in May 
2017. I do appreciate that Ms M has said she doesnt recall receiving either the default 
notice or final demand letter. However, the contact notes show that Ms M called TSB after 
the dates of these letters, and her account information was discussed. The notes suggest 
that Ms M was told that a payment plan could be agreed, and she said that the debt 
management company would be in contact with TSB. But the account then defaulted in June 
2017, when TSB received no further contact. 
I do acknowledge Ms Ms desire to fully repay her debts, and her reasons for believing this 
default should be backdated. But how other lenders may have agreed or decided to report 
their arrangements with Ms M is a matter for them; this doesnt necessarily mean that TSB 
should act in the same way.
 
Overall, I dont think that TSB has acted inappropriately or unfairly in the way that it dealt 
with Ms Ms overdraft debt, and I dont think it should be required to backdate the registering 
of the default on her credit file.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman