DRN-3670033
The complaint
Mr E complains about communications Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
sent about the tender of his holdings. He missed the deadline to accept the tender, and his 
holdings were delisted at a lower price.
What happened
Mr E held JKX Oil & Gas shares in his Fund and Share Account with Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited. On 15 November 2021, he says he received a letter saying all 
shareholders with under 500,000 shares would have their shares tendered in full.  As he 
held 78,3777 shares, he took this to mean his shares would be tendered automatically. He 
says he then received communication from Hargreaves on 19 January 2022, confirming that 
his shares had been delisted from the London Stock Exchange with effect from 5 January 
2022.
Mr E didnt think Hargreaves had told him he had to elect to accept the tender. He was left 
out of pocket as the price he received when the shares were delisted was less than the 
amount offered for the tender. To resolve his complaint, he would like his shares tendered in 
full at the rate they would have been before his shares were delisted. 
In their final response letter on 21 February 2022, Hargreaves replied to Mr Es complaint 
that their letters on 15 November 2021 and 10 December 2021 delivered a clear message. 
They say theyve provided Mr E with a simple explanation of how to tender his shares and 
explain that if no action was taken the existing shareholdings would remain. As no instruction 
was given, his shares were not tendered and remained within his Fund and Share Account. 
They rejected his complaint, so Mr E brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint and said he was satisfied that 
Hargreaves had laid out their requirements clearly in which it is explicitly stated that if Mr E 
was to do nothing by the deadline, then the existing shares will remain, and the stock will be 
delisted. He was satisfied Hargreaves had fulfilled their obligation to provide information to 
Mr E and that it was for him to decide on what to do next. 
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much of the same reasons so 
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the communications Mr E received about the tender. The email to 
Mr E on 15 November 2021, gives detailed information about the tender offer, the price per 
share and the delisting. It says:-
You can ask to sell all or part of your holding in the offer. Youve got a guaranteed 
entitlement to tender (i.e. elect to sell (my highlight)) 23.3% of your shareholding. 
You can ask to sell more or less than this, but you may not successfully sell all the 
shares you tender above this entitlement. The easiest way to tender Shares is 
online, and the deadline to give an instruction is noon on Wednesday 5 
January 2022. (my highlight)
The information provided in this letter specifically mentions the need to elect to sell and that 
clients do need to ask to sell all or part of the holding, so Hargreaves did expect an 
instruction from their client in order for them to act. This is also supported by the deadline 
given which makes clear that action was required.
There is no dispute as to the information Mr E has received. He raises a dispute in relation to 
the information presented on 10 December 2021. It says:-
Further to our message on 15 November 2021, we have received an important 
update from the company regarding this tender offer. They have stated that all 
underlying shareholders who hold under 500,000 shares will have their holdings 
tendered in full. 
He says the letter quite clearly made no mention of requiring him to accept the tender if he 
had less than 500,000 shares and states it would be tendered in full for all holdings under 
500,000. He says he took this to mean he didnt need to do anything as his holdings were 
less than this amount so it would happen automatically. I think he was mistaken in his 
interpretation of this information, and this is probably why he took no action. That said, I see 
no reason for him to disregard the earlier instruction given on 15 November 2021 which 
made clear he needed to elect to sell, particularly as this later communication also gives the 
same instructions. The letter on 10 December 2021 follows on to say:-
If you wish to change your instruction, please submit a new one online and this will 
override your previous instruction. If not, all existing instructions to tender will remain.
The easiest way to tender Shares is online, and the deadline to give an instruction is 
noon on Wednesday 5 January 2022.
 Tender your shares 
1. Do nothing
You dont have to take part in the Tender Offer. If you dont youll keep your 
existing shares. 
2. Tender Shares
Ask to sell some or all of your shares at 42p per share. Youll receive cash from 
shares successfully tendered on or around 14 January 2022. The deadline to 
tender your shares is noon on Wednesday 5 January 2022.
How to tender your Shares
Log into your Account at hl.co.uk and select your Fund & Share Account. Choose 
the Corporate Actions Icon on your JKX Oil & Gas shares and follow the steps
The requirements are clear here and Mr E was expected to elect to tender and follow the 
instructions outlined. Both letters clearly set out the two options available to him and gives 
him a deadline for taking action.  
Given that Mr E had already been sent the communication of 15 November 2021, he knew 
from this that he did have to elect to sell and give specific instruction as to how many shares this applied to. Regardless of his interpretation of the communication he later 
received, he should have known Hargreaves couldnt reasonably have known exactly 
what he wanted to do without any specific instruction. Ultimately, this was an execution 
only service and it was up to Mr E to decide what he wanted to do, and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Hargreaves to take any action without instruction from him. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr E was mistaken in his understanding of the 
communication he received, but I am satisfied that Hargreaves letters of 15 November 
2021 and 10 December 2021 make clear what he was expected to do as well as how to 
do it. Hargreaves did outline what would happen if Mr E did nothing by the deadline, that 
his shares would remain in his account and delisted, and this is what happened. So, on 
balance, I cant say they did anything wrong, and I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman