DRN-3960193
The complaint
Mr P complains that the boiler system financed by a fixed sum loan agreement provided by 
V12 Retail Finance Limited hasnt been correctly installed and is too technical for his needs. 
He says he was pressured into the agreement.
This complaint has been raised by Mr and Mrs P but as the loan agreement is in Mr Ps 
name he is the complainant and for ease of reference I have referred to Mr P throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
On 18 April 2022, a sales representative visited Mr P at home to provide a quote for a boiler. 
Mr P says he was asked to do a credit check almost immediately which took place on his 
mobile phone, and he wasnt aware what he was being asked to sign at the time. Mr P says 
he felt pressured into the agreement as the sales representative was pushing for the boiler 
installation to happen within 48 hours. Mr P says there was no breakdown of costs provided 
instead a price of around £5,200 was quoted which he understood to be the total cost 
including the cost of finance. But on the day of installation the price was increased by £800 
which Mr P understood to include three new radiators. New agreements were issued which 
Mr P says he didnt sign as he couldnt open the file which then resulted in lots of calls 
pressuring him to sign. Because of this he pressed the link to accept not knowing the full 
cost. 
The boiler system was installed on 21 April 2022. Mr P says it hasnt worked correctly since 
this date. He tried to exercise his right under the 14-day cooling off period but was told by 
the supplier he couldnt do this. A complaint was raised, and Mr P wasnt happy with the 
outcome. It was agreed the supplier would visit on 15 August. Mr P asked for a report from 
this visit but it wasnt provided. Following this visit Mr P says the system still wasnt working 
properly. Mr P says he has been mis-sold a boiler system which doesnt work correctly. 
V12 says that it provided a fixed sum loan agreement for home improvements. The total cost 
of the goods was £6,205 and the loan was repayable over 96 months with monthly 
repayments of around £87. The total amount repayable was around £8,308. V12 says that 
the supplier requested payment of the funds on 21 April and the agreement went live. It says 
that Mr P contacted it on 3 May 2022, saying he wished to exercise his right to cancel under 
the 14 day cooling off period as the system was faulty and radiators that were included in the 
quote werent supplied. A complaint was raised, and the supplier contacted. The supplier 
confirmed the contract didnt include new radiators and that Mr P signed the agreement in 
his own home and so there wasnt evidence he had been pressured into the agreement. V12 
tried to contact Mr P about the suppliers response. It then sent its final response letter 
saying it had no evidence of pressure being applied during the sales process and that as the 
work had been undertaken before Mr P asked to cancel his contract, this would need to be 
paid for. It said that the supplier offered to assess the heating system but had been told they 
wouldnt be allowed in the property and so it couldnt confirm any faults. Given this it didnt 
find any breach of contract that it could be held jointly liable for. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. It was recommended that he had a third-party 
inspection carried out which he did. A quote was provided for remedial work required to the 
boiler system costing £350. The inspector also confirmed that of the materials Mr P had 
been quoted for the boiler stand off kit and two flue extensions hadnt been used.
Our investigator issued an initial view in December 2022 and then a further view in January 
2023. He said that the supplier had confirmed it was happy to refund Mr P for the unused 
items and also for the scrap value of the items that were wrongly removed. This came to a 
total of £273.54. He thought this was reasonable. He asked about the three radiators, and it 
was said these were never meant to have been provided but were used to apply a price for 
the replacement piping, so he didnt think anything further was required in regard to these. In 
terms of the remedial work the supplier said the faulty thermostat was part of the existing 
system and not its responsibility and that although it didnt agree the other work was required 
it offered to send its installation manager to inspect the heating system and carry out the 
remedial work. Our investigator thought this offer was reasonable. He didnt think that Mr Ps 
proposed settlement of a total of £2,500 was fair. 
Mr P responded to our investigators view. He said the supplier cold called him when they 
had just moved house and while he was interested in getting a quote for a new boiler the 
sale representative used pressurised sales techniques. He said the total cost was never 
confirmed to him and he had been charged a lot of money for a heating system that doesnt 
work correctly with his existing heating system. He doesnt want to allow the supplier on to 
his property as he has lost trust in them. He wanted to confirm his proposed settlement of 
£2,500 to clear the outstanding debt had been put to V12. 
Our investigator noted Mr Ps comment and contacted V12 which didnt accept Mr Ps offer. 
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has raised a number of concerns about the installation of a new boiler. I can 
understand how upsetting this situation has been for him. I may not have addressed in detail 
each point Mr P has raised but I have considered all of the evidence provided and I have set 
out below my findings in regard to the key issues raised.
When considering Mr Ps complaint, I have taken all relevant rules and regulations into 
account, specifically considering in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015. However, my 
decision is based on the unique circumstances of the complaint and what I consider a fair 
and reasonable outcome. Where the evidence provided is incomplete, or contradictory I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is what I consider to most 
likely have happened given the information provided and the wider circumstances. 
Missing items
Mr P explained that he had requested certain items be left after removal. Unfortunately, this 
didnt happen, and the supplier accepted that the items had been removed in error. Given 
this I think it fair that Mr P is paid for the items that were taken by mistake. The supplier 
offered to pay him the scrap value which was noted as £180. I find this offer reasonable and 
the supplier has confirmed it is still available to Mr P.
There were also items that were listed as part of the contract that werent used in Mr Ps installation. These were identified by a third party and agreed by the supplier. The total cost 
of these items has been provided and the supplier said these would be refunded. I find this 
reasonable. 
This results in a total refund to Mr P for the items wrongly removed and the items not used of 
£273.54.
Radiators
Mr P has said his contract included three new radiators. I have looked at the supplier 
contract and these are included. Our investigator asked the supplier about these, and it said 
that the price of the radiators was added to the contract to cover the cost of the replacement 
piping that was needed. Having looked through the items included in the order and noting 
the comment about the pipework that was needed, I do not find it unreasonable to accept 
that the cost of the radiators was included to cover the pipework cost. The supplier has said 
that Mr P was told about this and I can see he understood there was an extra cost for the 
pipework and so without further evidence to the contrary, on balance, I accept the radiators 
were used to reflect the additional cost of the piping and so I do not require any further 
action to be taken in regard to this issue.
Remedial work
Mr P had a third party look at his heating system and it noted the following issues:
No switched fuse spur supplying boiler.
Faulty thermostatic valve on bedroom radiator.
External condense pipe not insulated as per the standards. 
It said the following remedial work was required and quoted £350 for this:
Supply and fit 3 amp switched fuse spur for boiler due to non fuse spur switch at 
present.
Replace faulty radiator valve in bedroom.
Insulate external condense pipe.
The supplier didnt accept that the bedroom radiator valve was its responsibility and as no 
radiators were supplied as part of its installation, I agree with this. It said that it would send 
an installation manager to assess the other issues and undertake work if needed. I 
understand that Mr P doesnt want the supplier to return to his property as he has lost trust in 
it. I also note his comment that the supplier did have chance to sort any remedial issues in 
August when it came to review the system. I understand Mr Ps comments, but I also note 
the visit in August recorded that a blockage was identified and resolved and that the system 
was working after this. The issues now raised are from the inspection and there is a question 
over the need for the supplier to take action and so I think the fairest resolution is for the 
supplier to be able to assess the suggested remedial work and carry this out as required. 
Mis-sale
Mr P has said he felt pressured into the purchase and associated loan agreement and that 
he wasnt able to see what he was signing and didnt know the full costs before he agreed to 
the contract.I can see the installation happened very shortly after Mr P had the initial visit from the sales 
representative. However, I have listened to a call from before the installation when Mr P is 
asked if he is happy with the installation going ahead and he confirmed he is. He is told the 
cost and he doesnt challenge this, and he says he doesnt have any questions. Had he not 
wished to proceed I would have expected him to raise more concerns at this time, or to have 
delayed the installation.
On the call a lower price was given to Mr P which was amended, and Mr P has said he was 
provided with a new contract to sign. I note Mr Ps testimony about struggling to access the 
agreement and receiving calls as he hadnt signed it. I appreciate that this would have been 
stressful but based on the information provided Mr P was aware of the increase in the costs. 
I note the comment that he thought the revised cost was the total but he was aware he was 
paying using finance and that this would have a cost and so I think had he not been clear on 
the total cost including the finance charge he could have asked about this. 
On balance, while I understand the points Mr P has raised and I am sorry to hear the 
experience he has had and think more support would have been helpful, I do not find in this 
case I have enough to be able to say the agreement was mis-sold. 
Warranty
Mr P says he was charged for a 10-year warranty which was unnecessary as the 
manufacturer provided a 10-year warranty. The contract confirms that the manufacturer 
warranty is included and the supplier has also confirmed there was no additional charge for 
the warranty. Therefore, without evidence to show an additional charge has been applied I 
do not require any further action to be taken in regard to this part of Mr Ps complaint. 
Settlement
Mr P made an offer to V12 to pay a total of £2,500 to settle his finance. I understand that 
Mr P has been upset by the issues he has experienced and feels he has paid a lot of money 
for a boiler system that doesnt suit his needs. But in this case, the boiler was fitted, and the 
old boiler removed. While there are potential remedial works to be undertaken the third-party 
quote for these was £350 and the unused items had been agreed to be refunded. Therefore, 
I do not find that I can say V12 should have accepted Mr Ps offer. Instead, I find that the 
offer of the refunds set out above along with the offer of any required remedial work on the 
pipe and switch is reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
V12 should ensure that Mr P is refunded £273.54 for the unused parts and items removed in 
error. It should also ensure that the boiler is inspected by the supplier and any remedial work 
required to insulate the condense pipe and to check the power supply to the boiler is 
undertaken at no cost to Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that V12 Retail Finance Limited should ensure that actions set out above 
are undertaken in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Jane ArcherOmbudsman