DRN-4187223
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of several timeshares.
What happened
Mr K and his late wife purchased three timeshare memberships on 16 February 2008, 25 
January 2009 and 7 February 2015. They cost respectively £16,950, £23,500 and £20,776. 
These were funded in part by loans from BPF which ended on 13 January 2009, 17 May 
2014 and 3 May 2016 respectively.
On 12 July 2022 Mr K made claims for breach of contract and misrepresentation under s. 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) and an unfair relationship under s.140A of the 
CCA. Mr K set out his claims in some detail.
BPF says it sought to make contact with Mr K to seek further information as it thought he 
may have a claim for breach of contract since the supplier had ceased to trade. It says it 
didnt receive the information it needed and so it rejected his claim. However, it said it would 
review his claims if at a later date he was able to provide the necessary information.
Mr K brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said the claims had been brought out of time for 
misrepresentation. However, he agreed with BPF that there might have been a breach of 
contract as a result of the supplier going into liquidation, but there wasnt sufficient evidence 
to show that Mr K still retained his membership at the date of liquidation. 
Mr K responded to say that BPF was reviewing all the loans sold by the supplier and 
considering offering redress. He asked that we defer making a decision. I asked BPF if Mr 
Ks loans were part of its review. It confirmed they were and it would be contacting Mr K in 
due course. Our investigator contacted Mr K to let him know and to explain it was likely that 
BPF would want evidence that he was still a member at the time of the liquidation. He said a 
decision could be issued as it was unlikely it would prejudice his position. Mr K agreed. He 
also said that he still had the original ownership documents which he would have had to 
have returned if he relinquished his membership.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont currently think 
this complaint should be upheld.
Mr K has sent us a considerable amount of information and submissions in an effort to 
explain what he thinks the outcome of this complaint should be. However, as this service is 
designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts, my role as an ombudsman isnt 
to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr K) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr K made like claims against BPF under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for those 
claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 5.145 
of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would have 
been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr K had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claims.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr K entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of 
the supplier.And as the finance from BPF in 2008, 2009 and 2015 were used to help pay for the 
purchases, it was when he entered into the credit agreements that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in 2008, 2009 and 2015  which 
means that, at the latest, he had six years from when he entered into the relevant credit 
agreements to make his claims. But as he didnt do that until July 2022, and as I cant see a 
reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, his claims 
are likely to have been too late. And for that reason, I think BPF has a defence to them 
under the LA.
The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr K and BPF were 
unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies 
to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years, and as I understand it the last 
loan was repaid in May 2016 and the claim was made in July 2022 which means it was 
made out of time.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr K could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against BPF anyway.
Mr Ks alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little to nothing to persuade me that BPF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mr K could afford to repay 
what he was borrowing. 
I am not persuaded that BPF owed Mr K a duty of care to ensure that the product they were 
purchasing wasnt sold by the supplier in breach of a relevant regulation  particularly one 
that imposed a criminal sanction.
As things stand, therefore, I cant see why any of Mr Ks claims for misrepresentation were 
likely to have been made in time under the LA or that he would have a claim if they had been 
made in time..
Breach of Contract
I agree that Mr K may have a valid claim for breach of contract since the supplier went into 
liquidation. However, in order for that to succeed he needs to show that he was still a 
member of the timeshare club at the time of liquidation. While he has circumstantial 
evidence I have not seen anything definitive that would allow me to uphold his complaint.
I have seen a maintenance fee invoice dated 10 December 2018 for the memberships, but 
theres no evidence that this was paid.I have also noted the email from the liquidators dated 13 October 2020 addressed To All 
Known Members of Club Paradiso. I cannot safely conclude this shows Mr K was an active 
member at the time, as it isnt personally addressed to him. 
Even holding the original certificates does not of itself prove that Mr K was still a member at 
the time of liquidation. It was possible that he defaulted on payments and his membership 
was terminated or he simply stopped making the annual maintenance payments.
However, I would explain that my role is not to determine if his claim should succeed, but 
whether it was fair and reasonable for BPF to have rejected it on the basis of the evidence it 
had been given. I have concluded that BPF was entitled to reach the decision it did. 
That said, I should make it clear that this should not in any way prejudice BPFs review of the 
loans which it is currently carrying out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman