DRN-3280680
The complaint
Ms E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC no longer allow her to send money to Australia 
free of charge via the mobile banking app.
What happened
Ms E holds a bank account with Barclays. She has relatives who live in Australia, so from 
time to time sends them money. She was able to do this free of charge via Barclays mobile 
banking app  including its service Ping, but Barclays has since removed that service. And 
Ms E now cant send Australian Dollars (AUD) from the app at all.
Ms E complained about this, she said she was able to use this service and thinks Barclays 
should reinstate it.
Barclays says it wont be doing that. It says if Ms E wants to send AUDs to Australia then 
she can do so online. Or she can do so in branch or over the phone. It says she can do this 
online for free  but notes that the receiving bank may charge a fee. Or she can do it in 
branch or over the telephone at a cost.
Ms E still wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to us. She says she was able 
to send money free of charge easily and thinks she should be able to do that. She says the 
other methods are unfair and arent good for her mental health.
One of our investigators didnt recommend Ms Es complaint be upheld. He said we werent 
able to tell Barclays to offer the service free of charge.
Ms E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ive spoken to Ms E about this decision and understand 
it isnt one shes happy with.
While I appreciate Ms Es wants to have this service provided free of charge, both because 
she has had it before, and because its available in other currencies, it isnt one Barclays are 
obliged to provide her.
Barclays, as a business, are entitled to make commercial decisions on what services they 
offer, and what they charge for those services. As mentioned, I appreciate Barclays provided 
this previously for free, but that doesnt mean it needs to continue providing it. Nor is it one I, 
or this service is able to enforce them to provide.
Ive also taken in account Ms E saying this affects her mental health. Barclays also need to 
take this into consideration. But it doesnt necessarily follow that it needs to provide the 
service Ms E wants. I think what Barclays has done by letting Ms E know other ways in 
which she can transfer the AUDs to Australia and the charges involved is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman