DRN-1137644
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited led him to believe that he could 
have a tax-free lump sum from his pension plan.
Background
Mr H has a section 32 bond with Aviva, this was set up following a transfer from an 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) in 1987. As part of this transfer, Aviva took on a 
liability to pay Mr H no less than the value of his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) which 
was part of this plan.
More recently Mr H enquired with Aviva about what benefits he could take from his plan. 
Aviva told him that the cost of providing the GMP was not met by his plan. Therefore on 
taking his benefits he would receive the GMP but nothing more. It said he would not be able 
to take a lump-sum from the policy due to the GMP costing more to provide than the value of 
his plan.
Mr H was unhappy with this explanation and with the performance of his plan. He felt he 
should be able to take a lump-sum from his policy. One of our investigators considered this 
complaint and explained why only the GMP would be payable from his plan with Aviva. And 
that Aviva hadnt made an error in saying it wouldnt be providing the option of a tax free 
cash lump-sum.
Mr H responded to say that he was unhappy that he had been told for a number of years and 
on numerous occasions that he would be able to take a tax free lump-sum. Aviva told us that 
this wasnt part of the complaint and it would need to investigate this as a new complaint.
After investigating the new complaint issue, Aviva offered Mr H £400 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it had caused. Aviva agreed that it had mis-informed Mr H on a number of 
occasions that he would be able to take a tax-free lump sum from the policy. It again 
explained why he wasnt able to take a tax-free lump sum but apologised for raising Mr Hs 
expectations that he would receive one. Unhappy with this explanation Mr Hs complaint was 
considered by our investigator.
Our investigator said that the £400 offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He 
explained that he could see that Aviva had been unclear in its communication and had told 
Mr H that he could take a tax-free lump sum. And he agreed that Aviva needed to make an 
offer to put things right but he felt the £400 was a fair offer. The investigator explained that 
whilst mistakes had been made, he could see that as early as 2014 Mr H had been told that 
a lump sum wouldnt be able to be paid if the GMP wasnt met on retirement. And so he 
didnt think an award in excess of £400 was required. Mr H didnt agree and said that he felt 
that Aviva ought to honour what it had said and allow him to have a lump sum.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The issue for me to decide is whether the offer Aviva has made is fair and reasonable 
considering the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H has said he wants Aviva to honour the fact it had previously said he could take a tax 
free lump sum.  Under a separate complaint at this service we explained why Aviva couldnt 
provide a lump-sum due the value of the GMP. So I wont go into that here. But Ill explain 
why I wont be telling Aviva to honour its mistake and allow Mr H to take a tax-free lump-
sum.
Our approach when a business makes an error is to put the customer back into the position 
(as close as possible) they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. In this situation Mr H 
cannot take a lump-sum due the value of his plan and the GMP attached to it. Whether or 
not Aviva had made an error in its communication with him, this wouldve always been the 
case. Avivas error is not that it wont allow Mr H to take a lump-sum, its that it raised his 
expectations that he could.
So to say that Aviva should pay Mr H a tax free lump-sum from the policy, putting aside all 
the regulatory issues in doing so, would be putting Mr H in a better position than he should 
be in. This goes against the principles of how we consider cases and what we are here to 
do.
Avivas error was the mis-information it gave Mr H. Obviously it cannot go back and undo 
this incorrect information. But it has provided Mr H with the correct information and an 
explanation of why he cannot take a lump sum. Its also explained why its mistake occurred 
and apologised for this. In cases like this, where the error a business has made has raised a 
customers expectation, if an award is warranted, it will usually be in the form of a trouble 
and upset payment. Aviva has offered £400 for its error. And having considered our 
approach and other similar instances, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Whilst we consider each case on its own merits, the circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint are not unique and the award offered by Aviva is at least in-line with other similar 
cases, if not higher.
For an award in excess of this amount, Id need to see that the mistake had materially 
changed Mr Hs position. I appreciate that Mr H expected a lump sum and wished to pay off 
family liabilities and Im sorry to hear of the health issues he is suffering. But as the 
investigator explained, Mr H had been informed in 2014, years before the plans set 
retirement date that he wouldnt likely be able to take a lump sum. So I dont think Avivas 
error in mis-informing him has altered Mr Hs position other than raising his expectations.
I appreciate that Mr H is frustrated that he is restricted by the GMP and he thought hed be 
able to take a lump-sum. But unfortunately this option is unavailable to him due to the 
particulars of his policy. And whilst Aviva gave him incorrect information and raised his 
expectation, its award of £400 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be 
telling Aviva to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited and make no award.
If Mr H hasnt already cashed in the cheque for £400 and has any trouble in doing so, he 
should contact Aviva directly to resolve this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman