DRN-4149514
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) changed some of 
the benefits that were previously available with his credit card account, and he now feels the 
account isnt suitable for him. He says hes lost out financially as a result of the changes.
What happened
In 2021, AESEL communicated to its customers who hold a Premium Plus account, that 
changes were due to be made to the account  these included changes to one of the 
benefits provided by a third-party. Mr B was one of these customers and so affected by the 
changes.
Mr B says the changes werent sufficiently communicated to him. And the product is now no 
longer suitable for his needs which has caused a financial detriment to him. 
Mr B says the change to the benefits of the account meant that companion vouchers 
awarded for flights couldnt be used in conjunction with previous vouchers awarded  which 
was allowed previously. The change meant that he was only able to get one free companion 
ticket, instead of the two he was expecting. This has resulted in a loss to Mr B of around 
£1,500.
Mr B says the email itself didnt mention this change. And he felt that the email implied that 
changes to the companion voucher were positioned as a positive change and so its 
unreasonable for a customer to have expected a detrimental change.
AESEL responded to Mr Bs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained that the changes 
made to the companion vouchers, had been communicated to Mr B via a link in an email 
sent to him on 3 June 2021. It explained that Mr B was given the option to opt out of the 
changes at the time. And because Mr B didnt opt out, it assumed he accepted the changes.
The Investigator considered what both parties had said, but they didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. They felt that AESEL had provided Mr B with notice that the terms and conditions 
were changing, and that ultimately, it was up to Mr B to check what was changing.
Mr B didnt agree. In summary, he felt that the link to the page where the terms and 
conditions were presented had been updated since it was sent to him in June 2021. He also 
felt that AESELs communication about the changes wasnt inline with FCA COBS 4.2 rule 
that communications must be fair, clear and not misleading. Further, I also believe it does 
not comply with FCA COBS rule 4.5.2 (3) & (4), that is sufficient for, and presented in a way 
that is likely to be understood by, the average member of the group to whom it is directed, or 
by whom it is likely to be received; and communications does not disguise, dimmish or 
obscure important items.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I note the previous Investigator has said that AESEL arent responsible for the changes to 
the terms and conditions itself, because these are provided by a third-party who provide the 
benefit. Im minded to agree with this. But in this case, I think the crux of the matter is how 
AESEL communicated the change to Mr B  which, he says, has in turn led to a financial 
loss for him.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account state that changes can be made to the terms 
and conditions of the account, they say that a customer will be given at least 30 days notice 
of the changes and provided with the option to opt out of changes. 
Looking at the email sent to Mr B on 3 June 2021, I can see that, amongst other changes, he 
was notified of changes to the companion voucher benefit available with his account. The 
notification said that changes were due to take place on 1 September 2021. And he was 
provided with the option to opt out of these changes by 4 August 2021. Because Mr B didnt 
opt out, AESEL reasonably made the assumption that Mr B wanted to continue with his 
account. So, in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account, Im satisfied that it 
provided Mr B with sufficient notice of the changes and gave him the option of opting out of 
the changes. I cant fairly say AESEL has done anything wrong here.
Looking at the contents of the email itself, I can see that it explains that the changes are due 
to be made to the companion voucher. I agree that the body of the email doesnt specify 
what all of the changes are. Or what this might mean for Mr B. But there is a link provided in 
the email which goes directly to the website for the provider of the vouchers, which explains 
what the terms and conditions of the vouchers are.
I note that Mr B thinks that the webpage has been updated since June 2021, when the email 
about the changes was sent. I accept that this is very possible, given how long has now 
passed. I have checked the webpage from around the time the email was sent to Mr B, while 
its possible that some of the content has changed, the information important to Mr Bs 
complaint remains the same. So, if Mr B had checked the website at the time he got the 
email, he would have been able to see the change made to the benefit that has affected him.
Mr B has referred to the COBS section of the FCA handbook, in stating that AESELs 
communication of the change wasnt clear. This part of the handbook doesnt apply to the 
product Mr B has with AESEL. However, I have thought about the part of the handbook, 
CONC, that does apply. In particular, Mr B feels that the communication about the changes 
wasnt clear fair and not misleading. I accept that the email Mr B received from AESEL 
didnt explain what all the changes would be  and it didnt explain the particular change to 
the companion voucher that Mr B is complaining about. But the changes were made by the 
provider of the benefit, and so it was up to that provider to display the changes. I think 
AESEL has done enough in linking the relevant page in the email for its customer to view the 
terms and conditions  and notifying its customers that there have been changes to the 
benefit. 
Having taken everything into account, I cant fairly say that AESEL has done anything wrong 
here. I think it notified Mr B that changes would be taking place to the companion voucher 
and provided sufficient notice, and it provided a link to those changes. If the terms of the 
companion voucher had been an important benefit to Mr B, then I would have expected him 
to check the changes to ensure that he still wanted to continue with the account. Having thought about all of the information available to me, I dont find that Mr Bs losses are down 
to anything AESEL has done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman