DRN-3635423
The complaint
Mr L complains about how ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) administered his investment 
accounts.
What happened
Mr L says ITI Capital is responsible for him never having proper access to his accounts  in 
particular his ISA  and for a delay in transferring them. He says as a result he was unable 
to access and reinvest cash in his ISA. He has said his ISA was his main concern so what 
Ive said below refers mainly to that account.
Mr L says ITI Capitals system wasnt working from the start and ITI Capital didnt want to 
help him. He says he got very few replies to his emails. He says the log-in details he was 
given didnt work  and a letter to him from ITI Capital refers to problems with this. He says 
he was able to gain some access to his account using his own initiative, but he wasnt able 
to see his cash or the number of shares he held.
From what Ive seen, after it took on the account, Mr L emailed ITI Capital on 7 August 2020 
about not having access to his account. On 11 August 2020 ITI Capital acknowledged there 
were difficulties and that it was looking into these and the matter was being given priority.
On 18 August 2020 Mr L emailed again about log-in difficulties, the limited nature of what he 
could see on the account and how he wasnt able to start a transfer out as a consequence.
ITI Capital has notes referring to a phone call on 26 August in which ITI Capital says Mr L 
refused to upload documents to see his holdings. Its notes also refer to a 11 September call 
in which ITI Capital says Mr L would not provide verification for the account and wanted the 
transfer out done without him logging on to the system.
By September 2020 Mr L had already contacted a new provider to ask for a transfer  and 
ITI Capital says it received the transfer request on 11 September. A note of 18 September 
from ITI Capital again refers to Mr L not being happy that ITI Capital was telling him he had 
to provide more information for verification. There is a suggestion in the note that Mr L was 
asked to send an email to help with the transfer. I dont know if Mr L did this, but whatever 
problem this related to isnt mentioned later and doesnt appear to have stopped the transfer 
eventually taking place. So whatever this issue was it appears to have been resolved.
Following its September transfer request, Mr Ls new provider chased ITI Capital periodically 
 in November, December and January  according to notes sent by that provider. Mr L says 
he phoned the provider every week for an update.
On 9 November ITI Capital noted Mr L wished to speak about incorrect information shown 
on the account for stocks and cash. ITI Capitals response to that is not detailed there.
In January 2021 Mr L chased the transfer by phone and later in January suggested he was 
taking legal action to escalate things. Shortly after that, on 21 January 2021, ITI Capital took 
the next steps to complete the transfer, which it has referred to as logging the transfer. The 
transfer of shares and uninvested cash completed shortly afterwards in February 2021 (a 
small payment of dividends followed in April 2021).
Mr L says he is self-employed and regards the savings in his ISA as his pension which he 
has been building up for around the last eight years or so. Hes given us a value of around 
£18,000 for his ISA shares in August 2020. Also his ISA contained cash  the figure he has 
given us is around £7000 - that the delay meant he was unable to reinvest. He says there 
were some very cheap shares available. He has told us his lack of access to his cash and 
invested funds was very stressful to say the least.
Our investigator was persuaded by Mr Ls account of what happened  noting the absence 
of any evidence to show that ITI Capital did give Mr L a practical way to gain full access to 
his account. Our investigator also thought it likely the ISA cash would have been invested in 
some way if it hadnt been for the delay. Our investigator thought it likely was very stressful 
and frustrating for Mr L given that our investigator accepted the ISA played a significant role 
in Mr Ls retirement funding plans and bearing in mind the years he had been saving into it. 
In all the circumstances, our investigator thought it fair for ITI Capital to compensate Mr L by 
way of an interest payment at the rate of 8% simple per year on the cash accumulated in his 
ISA from 3 September 2020  being when Mr L wouldve likely invested the cash had he had 
access to it. Our investigator also thought ITI Capital caused Mr L inconvenience and also 
distress - as a result of his lack of access to his investments and inability to monitor them - 
for which it ought to compensate him by paying £400.
Mr L accepted our investigators findings. ITI Capital didnt reply to them  so the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally and has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint  and for the same reasons as 
those given by our investigator.
In short, I conclude ITI Capital could've and shouldve provided a better service to Mr L. Also 
I conclude the transfer took much longer than necessary and in the meantime Mr L was 
unable to monitor the detail of his account and was kept from using his uninvested ISA cash 
as he wished for a period. So I think ITI Capital should put things right.
I do not overlook ITI Capitals notes about Mr L not providing verification information. But Ive 
received no suggestion from ITI Capital that this made a material difference to how long 
things took  or that it ought to affect my conclusions when looking at the delay. 
According to ITI Capitals notes, it didnt take next steps for the September 2020 transfer 
request until 21 January 2021. When it took these steps, the process completed quickly. 
Theres no suggestion in what I have that the transfer proceeded as it did after 21 January 
as a result of anything extra Mr L provided at that time  and so nothing to suggest that the 
transfer was held up before then by Mr L not providing something that was needed. 
In terms of the uninvested cash and Mr Ls arguments about how this might have been used, 
Ive seen nothing persuasive to suggest that what Mr L has said about this isnt right  and 
nothing to suggest that the remedy proposed by our investigator for that isnt reasonable and 
fair. What I have makes me think it is fair and reasonable. Also I accept there were 
significant savings in the ISA that were to be used for Mr Ls retirement.Our investigators findings about Mr L not having been given full access to his account or a 
proper service, havent been disputed and I agree with them based on the evidence I have. 
Mr L has said being unable to monitor his account meant not knowing what dividends had 
been paid. I accept this will have been frustrating. 
In terms of the practical steps Mr L had to take in response to this and the other problems, 
Mr L has mentioned logging in to his account regularly  at times daily  to try to check on it. 
He has mentioned making a number of complaints without reply. He has mentioned phoning 
his new provider weekly for transfer updates. Ive seen no suggestion that all this  and the 
problems themselves - didnt cause Mr L stress like he says as well as inconvenience. 
Ive taken all this into account when deciding what redress would be fair and reasonable for 
the inconvenience and distress Mr L was caused by ITI Capitals failings. Examples of our 
approach given on our website provide context, but my decision is based on the particular 
circumstances here and in light of all Ive said above I think £350 is fair and reasonable here. 
This is in addition to the interest Ive already mentioned above.
Im grateful to Mr L for the assistance he has given us and in particular his time explaining 
and discussing his complaint with our investigators during our investigation of his complaint.
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr L simple interest on the cash sum that was in his ISA as at 
3 September 2020 at the rate of 8% per year from that date until the date the cash was 
transferred to his new provider.
ITI Capital Limited should also pay Mr L £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by ITI Capitals failings, as detailed above.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and 
order ITI Capital Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman