DRN-3425650
The complaint
Mr F complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison), trading as 118 118 Money, were 
wrong to supply him with a credit card as he couldnt afford to repay the credit.
What happened
Madison approved Mr Fs application for a credit card in February 2019. The credit limit was 
set at £225.
Mr F says the credit card should never have been supplied as the credit was unaffordable. 
Madison disagreed, they thought that the checks they had conducted showed that Mr F did 
have enough disposable income to afford to repay the credit sustainably.
Our investigator also thought that was the case. She thought Madison had carried out 
proportionate checks when they approved the application and she didnt think the 
information they had reviewed would suggest Mr F wasnt likely to be able to repay the credit 
provided sustainably.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said he had other credit cards at the 
time and that they, and his current account, were all approaching their credit limits. He said 
he also had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) registered against him in June 2018 before his 
application, and that should have shown Madison that the credit was not affordable. He 
therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr F is also unhappy about a default that he says was incorrectly applied to 
his account and about the compensation paid in that instance. Those issues were the 
subject of a complaint this service has already decided on. So, Im not considering those 
issues here; nor am I allowed to. 
I think the checks Madison completed were reasonable and proportionate. They asked Mr F 
about his income (£1,772 per month) and his personal circumstances, and they calculated 
what Mr Fs expenses would likely be taking into account that he lived with his parents and 
was paying £100 per month in rent to them. Theyve also provided a copy of the credit file 
they reviewed. That showed Mr F had £2,235 of unsecured debt on his credit file and that his 
worst account position on those credit commitments was being one month behind in 
payments. The file showed that no accounts had been defaulted and there were no records 
of any CCJs on the file.
Given that information they calculated that Mr F would have a disposable income of over 
£1,000 and, in those circumstances, they thought the credit card was affordable to him.
It was clear that Mr F had four other credit cards at the time and that they were close to their 
credit limits. But Mr Fs payment history on those accounts was good and his overall 
indebtedness to creditors wasnt particularly high given his income level. So, I dont think the 
presence of those cards on the credit file would mean Madison should have declined the 
card application. I note that the credit limit on the card was relatively low at only £250 and 
was never increased.
Mr F says Madison should have noticed the CCJ on his file, but Madison have supplied a 
copy of the file they reviewed, and it wasnt recorded on it. As I think the checks Madison 
completed were proportionate I dont think they had to do any further checks. It wouldnt 
therefore be fair to suggest they should have identified the presence of a previous CCJ.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Madison provided unaffordable credit and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman