DRN-3352415
The complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Mr M opened a trading account with Wisebanc after seeing an advert online. He was 
attracted to the guaranteed returns offered of £1,000 a day. He was persuaded to invest 
more to take advantage of more offers.
Mr M said he made repeated requests to withdraw money, but instead he was pressured to 
make further deposits and was told withdrawals couldnt be made until certain milestones 
were met. When he raised his inability to make withdrawals, his account was drained of 
funds and he could no longer contact Wisebanc.
The transactions in dispute are set out in the table below and were paid by debit card.
Date Merchant Amount
6 November 2018 Insightstrader £250
7 November 2018 Insightstrader £1,000
7 November 2018 Insightstrader £1,250
12 November 2018 Trions Holding KFT £1,000
14 November 2108 Insightstrader £1,000
29 November 2018 Insightstrader £500
29 November 2018 Insightstrader £1,000
24 December 2018 FX24 £500
24 December 2018 FX24 £1,000
27 December 2018 Wisebanc £500
27 December 2018 FX24 £1,000
11 February 2019 Tradeltd-Option.RU £507.63
12 March 2019 Benveto.com £503.58
Total £10,011.21
Mr M also received £1,000 from Insightstrader on 23 November 2018, so his total loss is
£9,011.21.
Mr M raised a chargeback with Lloyds who said he was too late to do so. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. Although she agreed Lloyds was right not to attempt a chargeback, 
she was satisfied it ought to have intervened at the point Mr M paid Wisebanc  as the FCA 
had published a warning about this business on its website. She concluded that had Lloyds 
intervened the scam would have unravelled, and it would have been able guide Mr M 
through the chargeback process to get his earlier investment back. So she said it should 
refund the transactions in full.
Although Lloyds has asked for several extensions, we still havent received a response to 
the investigators view. So it was appropriate we moved to the ombudsman stage.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 February 2022 explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint  but only in part. I gave the parties until 3 March 2022 to provide further 
submissions. In the intervening period, we contacted both parties to check the provisional 
decision had been received and with a reminder of the date by which to provide any further 
evidence or arguments. We havent heard from either party, but its now appropriate to move 
to the final stage of our process. 
As I havent heard from either party, despite giving them an opportunity to provide further 
submissions, I progress this decision on the basis they had nothing further to add. I therefore 
see no reason to alter my provisional findings and so make them final, as set out below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers  in this case Visa  
whereby Visa will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a merchant and a customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them. There are rules to the scheme  set by Visa  which 
means there are only limited grounds and forms of evidence that will be accepted for a 
chargeback to be considered valid. And there are strict time limits which apply. Our role isnt 
to second-guess Visas decisions or rules, but to determine whether Lloyds, as the card 
issuer, acted fairly and reasonably when presenting, or not, a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder.
There is a time limit of 120 days from the date of the transaction, or the date when goods or 
services werent received to raise a chargeback. Mr Ms last disputed transaction place 12 
March 2019 but he didnt raise the chargeback until December 2019, well outside of the 120- 
day time limit. Mr M says he raised it earlier in October 2019, but there is no record of the 
bank receiving that.
But even if Mr M had met the time limits, Visa will only accept evidence in the form of a 
dated available withdrawal balance, and a same dated withdrawal request for it to be 
considered a valid chargeback. Im not aware that Mr M had this information and so I dont 
find Lloyds was acting unfairly or unreasonably when not raising a chargeback that had little 
prospect of success.
I turn now to whether Lloyds ought to have done more in relation to the payments being 
made.There is no dispute that Mr M authorised the transactions in question; he made the payment 
using his legitimate security credentials. Whilst Mr M didnt intend for his money to go to 
fraudsters, he is initially presumed liable for the loss.
Lloyds is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to counter 
various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that 
its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before 
processing payments, or declined them altogether to protect customers from possible 
financial harm from fraud. And as explained by the investigator, its considered good industry 
practice for firms to have updated watch-lists with types of scams and potential fraudsters 
and for those watch-lists to be updated and communicated internally to staff within one 
month of an alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO (International Organisation of 
Securities Commission). Such an alert should automatically trigger its systems and lead to 
payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a 
scam warning.
In this case, there was a warning about Wisebanc published on the FCA website on 14 
October 2018. That was two months before Mr M made a payment to that particular 
business  although earlier payments were made as part of this scam, they werent made to 
Wisebanc and so are not caught by the warning. Given the timing of the alert and when the 
payment was made, Lloyds ought to have automatically blocked it. Lloyds had had time to 
update and communicate its watch-list between the publication of the warning and the 
payment being made and it should have properly questioned Mr M before processing that 
transaction.
Had Lloyds carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr M about the payment, Ive 
no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. Whilst I accept Lloyds 
had no duty to protect him from a poor investment choice, or give investment advice, it could 
have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as far as is 
reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person  such as checking the 
payee was authorised with the FCA. And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and 
information that was within the public domain (as referenced by the investigator) about the 
high risks associated with and the potential for fraud and provided Mr M with a potential 
scam warning.
There isnt any evidence that Lloyds intervened. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr M would 
have looked further into the opportunity, about the investment type in general, whether the 
trader was regulated here or abroad and noted the various warnings about trading scams. 
Its also likely he would have come across the FCA warning for himself. It follows, that a 
warning from Lloyds would likely have exposed the scam, and caused Mr M to stop trading, 
thereby preventing any losses from that point.
I have also considered the payments before that, and whether or not Lloyds ought to have 
intervened. However, I find nothing about the payments themselves that was so unusual or 
so uncharacteristic that the bank ought to have suspected he might be falling victim to fraud.
The investigator concluded that had Lloyds intervened during the payment to Wisebanc, the 
bank could have guided Mr M through the evidence needed for a chargeback. But the most 
that could have been achieved if that had happened would be the value of the withdrawal 
request  the chargeback doesnt entitle the cardholder to a refund of all of the payments 
made to date. And its far from certain that Mr M would have had a balance that was 
available for withdrawal either on 27 December 2018  when the bank ought to have 
intervened  or in the few days following that.I am aware that during the course of this complaint, Mr M has provided some screen shots of 
his trading account. But those have had the date handwritten on, which I dont believe would 
meet Visas strict requirements. There is a screen shot from 25 December 2018, which does 
suggest there is a positive balance, but its not clear that would have been available for 
withdrawal. And I am aware that in the following two weeks the balance dropped 
substantially. In the absence of any documentation (such as a dated screen shot) showing 
that Mr M had an available balance for withdrawal between 27 and, say, 30 December 2018,  
then I dont find Lloyds should reimburse those transactions that took place between 6 
November and 24 December 2018 or any other amount in relation to those. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank 
PLC to:
Reimburse to Mr M the disputed transactions from 27 December 2018 onwards, 
totalling £2,511.21; and 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that sum from the date of the transactions to the 
date of settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman