DRN-3366761
The complaint
Mr S complains that Equifax Limited has recorded incorrect information on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr S says he checked his credit file with Equifax. When Mr S logged in to view his credit 
file, the summary screen (dashboard) said hed missed a payment 96 months ago. Mr S 
says this is untrue and complained to Equifax and said hed been refused lending as a 
result of the incorrect missed payment recorded.
Equifax issued a final response and said information would remain on a credit file for six 
years. Equifax also said businesses will decide whether to lend based on their own 
criteria. Equifax highlighted that Mr S had an open credit card that was around 10 years 
old with a third party business. Equifax didnt uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Equifax had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
S asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reached a different view concerning how to fairly resolve Mr S complaint. Having 
been back to Equifax for further information, I think it failed to fully get to grips with what Mr 
S was asking and the issue raised. Ive copied the relevant screen from Equifaxs systems
below:
Its clear the dashboard here says it was 96 months since the last negative repayment 
status on Mr S credit file. Mr S has told us he never missed a payment and is concerned 
that the information recorded on the dashboard has impacted his credit file. I think Equifax 
ought to be able to explain the information recorded on Mr S credit file and its dashboard.
Ive reviewed Mr S full credit file and there are no missed payments recorded on it. 
Payment profiles only go back six years. So even if Mr S had missed a payment 96 months 
ago, it wouldnt be reported on his credit file today or impact his credit score. Whilst I 
understand Mr S is concerned that credit applications hes made have been impacted by a 
missed payment, I havent found evidence to support that.
Equifax recently told us it cant explain why its dashboard says its 96 months since the last 
negative repayment status and have suggested it may be an IT issue. Mr S has told us the 
number doesnt change. If this information did relate to an actual missed payment, I think it 
would likely increase over time. I think Equifaxs suggestion that the information displayed 
relates to an error on its systems is most likely correct. Equifax has confirmed the issue will 
be referred to its IT department.
Whilst I havent seen any evidence that shows credit applications Mr S has made have 
been impacted by the information on Equifaxs dashboard, I think it shouldve done more to 
try and understand his concerns when they were first raised. Mr S has consistently referred 
to the 96 month issue and Equifaxs various responses have proposed various, likely 
incorrect, explanations. As far as I can see, none of the explanations actually dealt with the 
issue Mr S raised. That has led Mr S to approach a credit card provider for more 
information and its clear hes spent a considerable amount of time pursuing this matter.
I also think its reasonable to note the information recorded on the dashboard is most likely 
wrong. Whilst it may seem minor, its clear to me that the disputed information has caused a 
reasonable level of concern and inconvenience for Mr S over the course of several months. 
Given the level of trouble and upset caused, I intend to uphold Mr S complaint and direct 
Equifax to pay him £200 to reflect his distress and inconvenience. Equifax has confirmed the 
matter has been referred to its IT department for investigation to see how the issue can be
resolved. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances.
Following the provisional decision, weve liaised with Equifax and Mr S. As a result, 
Equifax investigated the issue and made an amendment to its records. Mr S has 
confirmed the information shown on the dashboard is correct and that the systems issue 
has been resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased the dashboard information is now correct. In addition to the correcting its 
systems I also directed Equifax to pay Mr S £200. I still think thats a fair way to resolve 
Mr S complaint, in addition to the systems fix now in place. As a result, Im going to 
proceed on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint. In addition to resolving the systems issues 
raised by Mr M, Equifax Limited should pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman