DRN-3780076
The complaint
E, a limited company complains that it lost out financially due to delays by Airwallex (UK) 
Limited in processing its application for a new account.
E wants Airwallex to compensate it for lost revenue, stress, and inconvenience. 
What happened
E is represented in its complaint by a director Mr A. He wanted to set up an online payment 
service so that E could trade with another online business. Mr A says he was particularly 
attracted to Airwallex as it advertised an account that could be set up within one to three 
business days.
After E applied for the account, Mr A didnt hear anything and had to chase. There were then 
further delays which Mr A says led to a loss to E of at least £833. Mr A says the delays 
caused frustration and stress as he had to spend several days dealing with Airwallex on 
behalf of E.
Mr A is also unhappy with the way that Airwallex dealt with a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) and more generally with the way in which Es complaint has been handled. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Es complaint be upheld. In summary, the 
investigator said that Airwallex required additional information from E so he couldnt hold it 
responsible for the delays. He was satisfied that Airwallex kept E up to date with progress. 
The investigator also said that it wasnt possible to calculate how much revenue was lost by 
E and that it wasnt guaranteed 
The investigator said that as Airwallex needed additional information from Mr A, the time limit 
for dealing with the DSAR restarted from the date it received the additional information.
Mr A is unhappy with the investigators opinion. He asks why the investigator didnt say 
anything about Airwallex ignoring Es complaint when it was made. Mr A thinks the 
investigator is wrong about the time limits for the DSAR.
Mr A has provided screenshots showing that Airwallex acknowledged the business 
information he provided and that it generally takes one to three working days to complete the 
verification process. Mr A says that after he sent in Es application on 11 April 2022, he 
heard nothing until he chased on 19 April for an update. Then Airwallex told him it would 
take another five to seven working days due to very high demand. 
The investigator responded further to Mr A saying that Es application for a new account was 
made in the same week as Easter so the delay wasnt as great as Mr A thought. The 
investigator noted that Airwallex responded within the timeframes it gave Mr A before saying 
it needed further information. Once Mr A provided the additional information, Airwallex gave 
its decision on Es application within the one to three working day timescale.
Mr A remains unhappy with the investigators proposed outcome. He thinks that Airwallexs 
financial promotion is unclear and misleading. Mr A says he specifically chose to go with 
Airwallex because it gave the shortest verification period and he was reassured that if 
Airwallex needed anything further from E, it wouldve asked for this information during the 
one to three working day period. 
Mr A thinks that the investigator has missed the point that E waited from 11 April until 28 
April 2022 for a decision to be made rather than the one to three working day period 
advertised by Airwallex.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. 
When the investigator sent out his investigation outcome, he did so on the basis that Mr A 
was the complainant instead of E. My understanding is that it was E which applied to open 
the Airwallex account. So, the complaint has now been set up in the name of E rather than 
Mr A.
As this complaint is brought on behalf of E, I cant consider any stress or upset that Mr A 
may have felt personally. I hope that he understands. 
I appreciate Mr A is unhappy about how Airwallex handled Es complaint but the handling of 
complaints isnt itself a regulated activity. So, whilst I understand Mr As concern that 
Airwallex didnt deal promptly with the complaint and didnt then address all the issues he 
raised, I dont intend to comment further on this point. 
Overall, I dont uphold Es complaint. Although Airwallex says that it generally takes one to 
three business days to complete the verification process, this isnt guaranteed. And it is 
subject to Airwallex having all the business information required.  
I agree that its unfortunate that Airwallex didnt contact E sooner after it received the 
application on 11 April 2022. But I think it's important to note that out of the seven or eight 
days after E sent in its application  four of these were non-working days for Airwallex due to 
the Easter bank holiday. So, I dont find the delay unreasonable. After Mr A asked for 
progress updates, Airwallex responded promptly and then stuck to the timescales it gave. 
So, Im satisfied that Airwallex treated E fairly. 
On 25 April 2022, Airwallex requested further information from E which it received on the 
same day. Airwallex then gave E a final decision on its application on 28 April 2022  three 
days from receipt of the information. This is in line with the section of Airwallexs website 
headed How quickly can I start transacting?. In this section Airwallex says that once a 
prospective customer submits all of your business information required by Airwallex, the 
verification of your account will generally be completed within 1-3 working days.
I understand that Mr A thinks E missed out on sales during the time that Airwallex took to 
reply to Es application. But for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont consider Airwallex 
can be held responsible for these alleged losses. Particularly when E hadnt yet started 
trading so its hard to say what level of income it wouldve achieved. And it was never 
guaranteed that Es application to Airwallex would be successful. Mr A also complained about the time that Airwallex took to respond to his DSAR. I asked the 
investigator to explain to Mr A that this service isnt free to consider every complaint thats 
brought to us. The rules that were governed by  known as the DISP rules  set out which 
complaints we can and cant consider. The rules are set by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority, and can be found in its handbook. 
DISP 2.7.1 says that a complaint may only be dealt with by this service if it is brought by or 
on behalf of an eligible complainant. To be an eligible complainant, the complainant must 
meet the definition of one of the entities set out in DISP 2.7.3 and the complaint would have 
to arise from matters relevant to one of the relationships found in DISP 2.7.6.
Some of the categories of person able to bring a complaint is consumer or micro-
enterprise. E has referred the complaint to this service and meets the definition of a micro-
enterprise. But E doesnt have a relationship with Airwallex in relation to any delay in the 
DSAR being received because the information requested was Mr As personal information 
as director. So, E isnt eligible to complain about the delay. Its also the case that a limited 
company cant make a subject access request (although a director can).
I have thought about whether Mr A would be eligible to bring this aspect of the complaint to 
this service in his individual capacity. But I dont think he can as Mr A doesnt meet the 
definition of a consumer. This is because a consumer is defined in DISP as an individual 
acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft 
or profession. In this complaint, Mr A isnt acting outside of his trade, business, craft, or 
profession because the relationship he had with Airwallex stems from Es application  not 
one that he made in his personal capacity. As I dont consider E or Mr A is eligible to make a 
complaint about the time Airwallex took to respond to the DSAR, I dont say anything further 
about this aspect of the complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr A but I dont require Airwallex to take any action in response to 
Es complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman