DRN-2722890
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a guarantor loan Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to him. 
He says Bamboo didnt check his bank statements which would have shown the loan wasnt 
affordable.
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 19 March 2021
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Bamboo had told us. And he thought that 
Bamboo shouldnt have provided this loan. So he upheld Mr Rs complaint. Bamboo 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
On 19 March 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Rs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set 
out on our website. And I referred to this when deciding Mr Rs complaint.
I explained that Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this meant was Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr R could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I set out that Bamboo provided Mr R with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in November 2018. 
It was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, had an APR of 49.1% and 
was to due be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £118, which meant the total 
amount to be repaid was £7,095.22.
Bamboo said it agreed to Mr Rs application after he provided details of his monthly income. 
It said it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out on Mr R and 
also used Office of National Statistics data to ascertain his monthly expenditure. All of this 
information showed that Mr R would be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr R has said he was in financial difficulty.
I carefully thought about what Mr R and Bamboo had said. The first thing I pointed out was 
that this was Mr Rs first loan with Bamboo. The information provided did suggest Mr R was 
asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and Bamboo didnt just rely on what it 
was told.  
Our investigator thought that Bamboo needed to do more because Mr R had existing debts 
of approaching £25,000.00. The credit search Bamboo carried out did show that Mr R owed 
around this amount. But this was spread over only 5 accounts. Two of these accounts were 
hire-purchase ones. And while the other three were credit cards, the amount outstanding 
was only just over £2,000.00 and Mr R said that he was going to consolidate these balances.
So I didnt agree that the information on the credit file was too concerning. And by 
establishing that the purpose of Mr Rs purpose was to consolidate the credit card debt, I 
was also satisfied that Bamboo took reasonable steps here to ensure that it wasnt 
increasing Mr Rs existing indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful, in addition to it taking reasonable steps to ensure Mr R was able to make the 
monthly repayments.   
I did accept that Mr R went on to experience difficulty making the payments. I saw Mr Rs 
income had reduced. But Bamboo could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. I didnt think that it would have known that Mr Rs 
income would decrease.
I also explained that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I couldnt see that 
Bamboo did do anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr R - it carried out proportionate 
checks which suggested the repayments were affordable. Given the circumstances here, 
and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I didnt think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended into obtaining Mr Rs bank statements. 
So overall I didnt think that Bamboo treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with this loan. As this was the case, I didnt intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Bamboo didnt provide anything further for me to think about.
Mr R responded to say that he owed the whole amount for the hire-purchase agreements 
and he had credit cards which were over their limits and a current account that was 
overdrawn. All of this meant that he couldnt afford the loan. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Ive considered Mr Rs further points. Im not disputing what hes told us and I do sympathise 
with the position hes in. However, Mr R didnt volunteer this information during his 
application. And crucially none of this showed up in the credit checks Bamboo carried out 
either. So I cant reasonably say that Bamboo ought to have been aware of this or that the 
information on the credit file should have led it to decline Mr Rs application  especially as 
Mr R was clear in saying that he would be paying his credit card balances off with the 
proceeds from this loan. As this is the case, Im afraid that Ive not been persuaded to alter the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision notwithstanding Mr Rs further points. So Im still not upholding   
Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint, Id like to remind Bamboo of its ongoing 
obligation to continue to exercise forbearance in light of Mr Rs apparent difficulty repaying 
this loan, should it choose to collect payments from him.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman