DRN-4500988
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the price charged by Wakam to renew her pet insurance policy 
and the poor service she received. 
Wakam as the underwriter of the insurance policy is responsible for the complaint and 
references to Wakam include its agents.
What happened
When Mrs D took out a pet insurance policy for her two cats in August 2022, the premium 
was £400.72. By July 2022 the insurer under the policy had changed to Wakam and it 
quoted £798.09 to renew the policy on the same terms. The policy covers vet fees up to 
£15,000 a year.
On 14 July 2023 Mrs D called Wakam to complain about the amount of the increase in 
premium as she is disabled and on a limited budget. Wakam told Mrs D that she could 
reduce the level of cover which would lower the premium. It gave her some examples of how 
she could bring the premium down by reducing the cover. She could have paid a premium of 
£379.54 but that would have meant shed have £3,000 cover and lose certain benefits such 
as cover for travelling abroad. It said it would email her the quotes.
On 25 July Mrs D rang Wakam again as she hadnt received an email with the revised 
quotes. She says she was promised a call-back that day but she didnt receive one.
Wakam confirmed the quotes by an email dated 26 July 2023.
Mrs D was also unhappy with the service shed received from Wakam. In particular, shed 
been told by one call handler that he thought policies wouldnt increase by more than 80%. 
That turned out to be incorrect. 
Wakam said that higher vet fees were a big part of the increase for all customers but on top 
of this it took into consideration the pets risk, including any claims made in the previous 
year. It said Mrs Ds premium remained fair for the cover she had. It also said the only way 
to reduce the premium would be to increase the excess, add a co-payment or move to a 
different level of cover. It apologised that she might have been left with the impression that 
the premium could be reduced without changing the policy at all.
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that Wakam hadnt treated Mrs D unfairly with regard 
to the premium. She also thought an apology was sufficient for the service issues Mrs D had 
experienced.
As Mrs D didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the significant increase in Mrs Ds premium, I can understand her concerns. 
Nonetheless I am not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
As our Investigator pointed out, Wakam only became the underwriter of the policy after the 
policy was taken out in 2022 and before renewal in 2023. Each insurer has its own way of 
assessing risks and pricing policies. Its likely that this change contributed to the particularly 
high increase in Mrs Ds premium.
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the risks they cover and that will be 
based on the risk a customer presents. As this is a commercial decision, I dont have the 
power to tell an insurer what its policy should cost. So I cant say that the cost of Mrs Ds 
policy is too high or that she should be charged less. Instead, I can consider whether the 
premium has been calculated correctly and whether Mrs D has been treated the same as 
any other customer with the same circumstances.
I need to be satisfied that Mrs D hasnt been singled out in any way and that Wakam has 
treated all comparable customers fairly and equally. Ive carefully reviewed the commercially 
sensitive information Wakam has sent us and I havent seen any evidence to suggest it has 
treated Mrs D any differently from how it would have treated any other customer in the same 
position. So Im not persuaded Wakam has treated Mrs D unfairly.
Ive also looked at the service Mrs D received from Wakam. I can see that on 14 July its call 
handler promised to send her some quotes by email. It was reasonable for Mrs D to assume 
that the quotes would be sent shortly but in fact those quotes werent actually sent until 12 
days later. On 25 July Mrs D called Wakam again. The call handler on that occasion 
promised to call her back after speaking to his team leader regarding the premium increase 
as he thought premiums wouldnt be increased by more than 80%. At the end of the 
following day Mrs D called Wakam again to complain that she hadnt had a call back. 
Wakam tried to call Mrs D back on 28 July but she wasnt available then. She asked Wakam 
to contact her on 31 July. On 1 August she chased Wakam again and it called her back on 3 
August. 
I appreciate all this must have been frustrating for Mrs D. Her hopes had been raised that 
the premium couldnt be capped by more than 80% but that turned out to be incorrect. 
Wakam also failed to call her back as promised and she had to chase it several times. 
Wakam has said it would pass on feedback for training and it also apologised to Mrs D. I 
think that is a reasonable way of responding in this instance. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman