DRN-3417960
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) unfairly declined a claim she made 
on a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out the PPI policy in September 1998. According to the policy schedule, the 
monthly benefit was £650, which Mrs B would receive for up to 12 months if she was 
unemployed.
In April 2020, Mrs B contacted Pinnacle to make a claim on the policy. Mrs B was a self-
employed salesperson for a company that had to stop trading because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. She was told by the company that she had no work at the end of March 2020. 
Fortunately, she was able to find work in June 2020.
Pinnacle first declined Mrs Bs claim in June 2020. It then wrote to her on 2 October 2020 to 
say it would reconsider her claim  and explained that if the claim was accepted, it would 
make the payment and add simple interest at 8% per year due to the delay. On 
29 October 2020, it declined her claim for a second time, because Mrs B was in receipt of a 
Self-Employment Income Support Scheme (SEISS) grant.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair. She cancelled her policy and referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair 
for Pinnacle to decline Mrs Bs claim for the reason it gave.
Mrs B doesnt agree and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs B will be very disappointed, but I dont think it was unfair for Pinnacle to decline 
her claim. Ill explain why.
To claim for unemployment benefit, the policy says Mrs B had to provide proof that shed 
ceased trading and registered as unemployed with the Department for Work and Pensions. 
In this context, ceased trading meant involuntarily ceasing to trade and submitting final 
closing accounts to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). And unemployment meant being 
entirely without paid employment.
As Pinnacle explained in its letter dated 2 October 2020, it reconsidered Mrs Bs claim given 
the exceptional circumstances. However, it declined her claim because she was in receipt of 
a SEISS grant. The grant was paid at the end of May 2020 but it covered the period she was 
out of work. To receive the SEISS grant, Mrs B had to declare that she intended to keep 
trading in 2020/2021 and, for tax purposes, the grant was treated as trading income. So 
although Mrs B wasnt working, during the period of time she wishes to claim for, she was 
receiving an income through her self-employment. I therefore dont think it was unfair for 
Pinnacle to decline her claim.
Mrs B says:
Pinnacle unfairly got her hopes up when it wrote to her to say it would reconsider her 
claim, and caused her a great deal of stress and upset;
she was unemployed when she first made her claim and not in receipt of 
Government support at the time;
the policy doesnt say she cant claim if shes in receipt of Government support and 
the two have nothing to do with one another;
if shed known she couldnt claim on the policy if she was in receipt of a grant, she 
wouldnt have applied for the grant; and,
Pinnacle took her monthly PPI payment between March 2020 and June 2020, and it 
didnt offer her any help when she told them she wasnt working.
Ill address her points in the same order.
While I appreciate Mrs Bs frustration, I think Pinnacle was right to pro-actively 
reconsider any declined claims in light of regulatory guidance. Im sorry that this got 
Mrs Bs hopes up but I think the letter makes it clear that the claim will merely be 
reconsidered.
As I explained above, the grant covered the period Mrs B was out of work. That she 
hadnt applied for the grant when she made her claim doesnt make a difference.
I dont accept that Mrs Bs SEISS grant and her unemployment claim have nothing to 
do with one another. As Ive explained above, the grant was essentially an income 
she received through her self-employment. That the policy doesnt mention the sort 
of Government support Mrs B received doesnt change that.
Even if Mrs B would have done things differently if shed known she couldnt make an 
unemployment claim while in receipt of a SEISS grant, I havent seen any evidence 
that Pinnacle did anything wrong in this regard.
Finally, until Mrs B cancelled the policy, I dont think it was unfair for Pinnacle to take 
Mrs Bs monthly PPI payment. And while I appreciate that Mrs B was very 
disappointed that Pinnacle declined her claim, I havent seen any evidence that it 
could and should have helped in another way and didnt.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman