DRN-1433544
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc declined his card twice when making a 
purchase.
What happened
Mr L has two accounts with Capital One and has been a customer for a number of years. In 
July 2019, while abroad, he tried to purchase tickets to watch a football match using his 
Capital One credit card. He said hed spent over an hour on the phone trying to purchase 
these tickets. However, his card was declined.
As Mr L had funds available to purchase the tickets he wasnt happy his card had been 
declined. So, on 24 July 2019, he contacted Capital One to query why this had happened 
and complain. He felt Capital One had no reason to decline his purchase. But it told Mr L his 
card had become dormant as it hadnt been used since September 2018. So, in the interests 
of security it had declined his purchase. It didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint  although it did 
offer him £27.08 as a gesture of goodwill. And it sent him a replacement card, which he 
activated on receipt.
In August 2019, Mr L tried to use his replacement card to purchase football match tickets but 
it was declined again. Mr L was trying to buy these tickets from the same retailer as the 
previous time and he spoke to the same member of staff as hed spoken to in July. He said 
this caused further upset and embarrassment.
When Mr L contacted Capital One to find out why his new card had been declined it told him 
this had happened for the same reason as before. However, this was incorrect as it was due 
to a block that had been added when his account had become inactive. 
This block should have been removed on 24 July 2019 when the replacement card was 
issued. So, Capital One upheld Mr Ls complaint about his card being declined a second 
time. To recognise the distress and inconvenience this had caused it credited his account 
with £30 compensation. 
Mr L wasnt happy with the compensation Capital One had offered so he referred his 
complaint to our service. He told our service that he had a brain injury, which exacerbated 
the inconvenience and upset he had experienced. Our investigator assessed the evidence 
from Capital One and Mr L and didnt think the compensation Capital One had offered to 
resolve this complaint was enough. They thought a further £50 was fair, which would take 
the total amount of compensation to just over £100. Capital One agreed to pay the additional 
compensation recommended by our investigator. But Mr L wanted £200 compensation 
overall. So he asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr L and Capital One, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr L experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. My role is 
to assess whether I think Capital One made a mistake, or treated Mr L unfairly, such that it 
needs to now put things right.  
The first issue Ive thought about is whether Capital One made an error in declining Mr Ls 
card in July 2019 and Ill explain why I dont think it did.
Ive seen evidence to show that Mr L wasnt using his card regularly. Capital One said the 
card hadnt been used since September 2018 and Mr L accepts he was only using his card 
for emergencies. Capital One said, in those circumstances, it will make an account dormant 
as a security measure. It said once an account is dormant, card payments will be declined. 
I understand Mr L was caused inconvenience when his card was declined in July 2019. But I 
can see that the terms of his account explain that Capital One may refuse to authorise a 
transaction where it thinks thats required for security purposes. 
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. To do so a bank may make inactive accounts dormant  as Capital 
One did here. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its customers. And it 
wouldnt be fair for me to criticise Capital One for adopting security measures to protect Mr 
Ls account. So, I cant find it made an error in either making his account dormant or 
declining his card in July 2019.
Where I think Capital One could have done things better, however, is after it issued a 
replacement card to Mr L in late July 2019. Its clear that, as a result of it not removing the 
block on Mr Ls account, he was prevented from using his new card. And this caused him 
embarrassment and inconvenience when his card was declined again.
Capital One has already accepted responsibility for its error in not removing the block from 
Mr Ls account. So, the issue here is whether it acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put 
things right.
Capital One has already credited Mr Ls account with £30 compensation. Its clear that he 
doesnt think this adequately reflects his inconvenience and experience. And our investigator 
agreed. They thought a further £50 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, which would take the total compensation amount to just over £100. I can see, 
however, that Mr L wants an overall award of £200.
I realise that it must have been frustrating for Mr L to have had his card declined again  
especially in circumstances when hed been told he was able to use it. Im pleased to see 
that he was ultimately able to purchase the football tickets he wanted. But I appreciate the 
embarrassment he was caused in having to be told by the same member of staff hed 
spoken to the previous month that his card had been declined again. And I think the distress 
and inconvenience Mr L experienced was exacerbated by his brain injury. So, I agree that 
£30 compensation isnt enough here.
I understand the reasons why Mr L thinks an overall award of £200 is more appropriate here. 
But, Im afraid I have to tell him that I agree with our investigators view that a further £50 is a fair amount of compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered. I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. And, overall, I think our 
investigators recommendation is in line with our approach in similar scenarios. So I wont be 
ordering Capital One to pay any more.
I realise Mr L will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Capital One informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
L any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Capital One should pay Mr L £50 to resolve 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman