DRN-2854953
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of A, is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) after it sent him 
missed payment letters, in relation to his business loan account, in error. Mr M considers 
this impacted his credit file and affected subsequent borrowing he took out around that time. 
Mr M says the borrowing was at higher rate of interest than it should have been.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in great detail here. But broadly summarised, Mr M held a business loan 
account with Barclays. Its been confirmed that Mr M never missed a repayment with 
Barclays, but unfortunately in 2019 due to an error by Barclays, Mr M received some letters 
advising that he had missed payments and there were arrears on the account. The wording 
in the letters indicated that information about the missed payments would be sent to credit 
reference agencies and that it could affect Mr Ms ability to obtain credit in the future. Mr M 
then received a letter in October 2019 advising that his account had been brought back into 
order and that it was no longer being managed by the collections department.
Around the time Mr M received the missed payment letters, he says he arranged further 
borrowing, which was ultimately taken through a different lender. Mr M believes that because 
of Barclays actions at this time in sending him the letters, his credit rating was negatively 
impacted, given what it had said within its letters. Mr M says this meant that the borrowing 
he took out was taken with a higher rate of interest than it should have had.
Mr M complained to Barclays and wanted it to pay the difference between the interest rate 
he received on the loan and the interest rate he believes he should have got, had Barclays 
not incorrectly recorded the missed payments against him.
Barclays looked into the matter. It confirmed Mr M had never missed a repayment and the 
letters advising he had arrears had been sent in error. And its letter of October 2019, 
advising the account had been brought back into order, was generated automatically. 
Barclays said its Credit Reference Agency Team confirmed that it had not recorded any 
adverse information on Mr Ms credit file  as he hadnt missed any payments. It apologised 
for its error and offered Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Mr M didnt accept Barclays offer of compensation and referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In short, they were 
satisfied that Barclays had sent the missed payment letters in error. And Barclays had 
confirmed that no adverse information had been recorded against Mr M. 
So, from the information provided by Barclays and Mr M, they considered there was nothing 
to suggest Mr Ms credit rating had been negatively impacted  and there wasnt a link 
between Barclays actions and the interest rate Mr M obtained on his other borrowing. They 
also considered Barclays offer of £200 for its error was fair in the circumstances.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mr M advised our investigator that he had 
recently had a telephone conversation with Barclays in relation to his credit card where the 
advisor, when reading the terms and conditions out to Mr M, mentioned that if he missed any 
payments the information will be passed on to credit reference agencies. So Mr M still 
considered it was likely that his credit rating had been affected when Barclays sent him 
missed payment letters. Mr M considered it should not be up to him to prove his case and 
that Barclays should provide evidence that it did not report anything on his credit file. 
So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays need to do anything more to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In this case, it is clear that Barclays made an error. Mr Ms account was incorrectly passed to 
its recoveries team and Mr M was incorrectly sent letters advising that he had missed 
payments and had arrears. 
Ive reviewed the letters Mr M received. The letters state that information regarding the 
conduct of your account is being sent to credit reference agencies such as Experian or 
Equifax. This may affect your ability to obtain credit in the future. So I do understand Mr Ms 
concern about those letters and the potential impact he thought they may have had on him.
But, and importantly, the letters were sent in error. Mr M didnt have any arrears and hadnt 
missed any payments. Barclays has checked with its Credit Reference Agency Team to see 
if anything was adversely recorded on Mr Ms credit file because of its error. And Barclays 
has confirmed that nothing was reported on Mr Ms credit file in respect of missed payments 
or arrears on the business loan account. 
That said, letters were sent to Mr M when they shouldnt have been. Errors can and do 
occur. Sometimes it can be as a result of human error, and sometimes as a result of a 
system error. Here, Mr Ms account was incorrectly passed to its recoveries team which 
generated the missed payment letters. When things go wrong it is important that a business 
corrects the error. And this also includes seeing what the direct impact or knock on effect 
was as a result of the error. So had Mr Ms credit rating been affected, I would direct 
Barclays to correct the matter by removing an adverse information it had placed on Mr Ms 
credit file and I would also look into the impact it had on Mr M. 
But in this case, while the letters were sent in error, Mr Ms credit rating wasnt affected, and 
Barclays has confirmed no adverse information was reported. Barclays has also apologised 
for its error and offered Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience the letters caused, 
which I considered to be fair compensation, given its error.So while I understand Mr Ms concern about the wording within the letters he received, 
Barclays has confirmed nothing was reported on his credit file. I note that both Barclays and 
our investigator has asked Mr M to provide his full credit file in order to see if there was 
anything adversely recorded. This hasnt been provided. So based on the evidence available 
to me, Im satisfied it is reasonable to conclude that nothing was reported by Barclays on 
Mr Ms credit file. However should Mr M provide Barclays with his credit file and it shows 
there is adverse information applied by Barclays in respect of the business loan account, 
Barclays should review the matter accordingly.  
Overall, Mr M considers the borrowing he took was at a higher rate because of Barclays 
actions. In light of what Ive said above, I cant reasonably conclude that this is the case, as 
there is nothing to indicate that anything was reported by Barclays on Mr Ms credit file.
Finally, I note Mr M has said when he was taking out his further borrowing, he did also apply 
for a loan with Barclays and his application was declined. That is a separate matter and isnt 
something I have considered within this decision. In this decision I have focused on Mr Ms 
complaint about the missed payment letters and whether Mr Ms credit rating was impacted 
as a result. Mr M should contact Barclays if he has any questions in regard to the loan 
application he made.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
A to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman