DRN-3360178
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc unfairly prevented him 
from making a transaction which caused a great degree of distress and inconvenience.
What happened
On 17 July 2021, Mr B made a payment to his credit card for £1,400, this was for his 
citizenship visa. However, from 20 July 2021, Mr B was unable to use his credit card. He is 
unhappy as Marks & Spencers blocked transactions on his account without his knowledge 
and one of those payments was for his citizenship visa and he was unable to pay for the visa 
until 9 August 2021.
Mr B has described the experience as the worst two weeks of his life. He says the whole 
situation caused a great deal of distress to him and his family as he was concerned he would 
be deported. He says he had to take a week off work to try and resolve the situation and had 
to borrow the funds from his friend. He feels he has been a victim of racial discrimination.
Marks & Spencer say it sent Mr B a renewal card on 20 July 2021 as his card was due to 
expire in September 2021. However, on 1 August 2021, a staff member from its fraud team 
contacted Mr B to advise that there had been an attempt to make a purchase on his credit 
card to retailer C. Marks & Spencer says Mr B confirmed he wasnt trying to register his card 
with the retailer, as such Marks & Spencer advised it would block the credit card for security 
purposes and issue a new card. Mr B received the renewal credit card, but as a block had 
been put on the account, since the card had been issued, Mr B was unable to use it. So, 
when he attempted to do so at an ATM machine, his credit card was kept for security 
reasons.
On 9 August 2021, Mr B attempted to make a transaction to N for £1,349.20, (this was for 
his visa) but this was referred to the fraud team. Mr B spoke to a member of staff from the 
fraud team and he was told this was blocked due to a security measure because Mr B had a 
large credit on his account. However, eventually Marks & Spencer put an override on the 
spend so the payment could go through. 
Mr B raised a complaint with Marks & Spencer who looked into his concerns. However, it 
didnt feel it had done anything wrong by blocking Mr Bs credit card. It says it had done so 
as Mr B had said he didnt recognise one of the transactions. However, it did acknowledge 
that it should have told Mr B about being over exposed on his credit card sooner than it did. 
As such, it offered Mr B £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Bs concerns, and recommended the complaint be upheld. In summary he said, that 
while he didnt agree that Mr B had been treated unfairly due to his race, he did think the 
service Marks & Spencer provided on 1 August wasnt satisfactory. As such, he said Marks 
& Spencer should pay Mr B £200, meaning a total payment of £250 (including the £50 offer 
by Marks & Spencer). Marks & Spencers didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Firstly, I should explain, Mr B says that Marks & Spencers have discriminated against him 
on the grounds of race. I would like to highlight that it is not my role to decide if the Equality 
Act 2010 has been breached as thats for a court to decide. However, Ive looked at whether 
Mr B was treated fairly with the actions Marks & Spencers took. 
The first issue started on 1 August 2021 when Mr B was first contacted by the fraud team to 
enquire if he had made a payment to retailer C. Of course, Marks & Spencer acted in 
accordance with its security measures when it contacted Mr B to check if it was him who was 
attempting to make a payment. As such, I am satisfied Marks and Spencer acted fairly in 
checking this payment.
However, having listened to the call, I dont agree it was handled well, the call wasnt clear 
and I dont agree that Mr B understood. In the first 38 seconds of the call, the line wasnt 
good and both parties were struggling to hear each other. The advisor went on to say, I 
wanted to check if you were trying to use your card with C today for, were you trying to 
register your card with C. Mr B seemed confused and said errrrm no. The advisor then 
said oh so that could be fraud then, I need to take you through a verification check
As the advisor continues with the verification check, she confirms again, so you say you 
didnt try and use your card with C today and it is fraud right? Mr B again seems confused 
and says so, just now? The advisors says it is today that you did it a couple of minutes 
back And Mr B says ye ye a couple of minutes, I am busy doing it. The advisor then asks 
Mr B if it was him or not and confirms she has already blocked the card. Mr B is very unclear 
what is happening, and the advisor asks again were you trying to register your card with C 
today Mr B starts to say he doesnt know who C is, but before he can finish the sentence, 
the advisor interrupts him and says ok I will take it as fraud. She then asks him about 
another payment on the card and Mr B confirms it was him, but she continues to explain she 
is blocking the card as he doesnt recognise that payment to C. She then says she is 
sending a new card, it is clear that at this point Mr B is very confused.
I think it is evident after listening to the call that the questions asked were not always clear, 
as such I appreciate why Mr B was confused. I am satisfied that Mr B was unsure why the 
card was blocked, and I don think it was clear if it was Mr B who was attempting to make a 
payment to C or not. The advisor was rushing through the call, interrupted Mr B and in my 
opinion didnt take the care and time to explain her actions properly or to give Mr B a chance 
to ask any questions. Marks and spencer in communications to our service admitted the 
advisor rushed the call. And given the nature of the call, I think its fair to say care should be 
taken not to cause any undue stress to its customers and to answer any questions they may 
have. Im not satisfied this was the case in this call.
Following this, the card was blocked and Mr B contacted Marks and Spencers via webchat. 
Having reviewed the webchat conversation, its clear Mr B was unsure why his card had 
been blocked and he felt it had been blocked unfairly which supports the conclusion Ive 
reached above. To be clear, I am not making the finding Mr Bs card was blocked unfairly, 
but that the reasons why it had been blocked and what that meant for Mr B hadnt been 
explained to him. Also, time and care hadnt been taken to answer his questions on the call 
that took place on 1 August 2021. If it had been, Mr B would have been aware he may not be able to make the up and coming payment he had to make for his visa application and 
alternative options could have been explored earlier on. Giving the nature of the payment Mr 
B needed to make, I can see why this would have caused Mr B a great deal of distress and 
an increased urgency for Mr B to resolve the issue.
I have also considered the events that followed. When Mr B did receive his new credit card, 
he attempted to make a payment for his visa. However, the transaction was stopped again. 
Marks and Spencer say this was due to the large credit on his card, so it was declined to 
prevent greater exposure of loss beyond the existing credit limit. I appreciate, that Marks and 
Spencer have acknowledged it should have highlighted the credit balance with Mr B sooner 
than it did, and in recognition of this it offered Mr B £50. Which I feel is reasonable in regard 
to this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
However, I am satisfied that the degree of distress and worry Mr B experienced due to the 
lack of clarity and poor customer service in the call dated 1 August 2021 warrants 
compensation. And in each complaint, we have to consider the specific circumstances of the 
consumer involved and how the error impacted them.
Putting things right
As explained above, due to the nature of the payment Mr B was required to make, I think 
being prevented from doing so without understanding why or having the time to ask 
questions, left him confused and worried about not being able to make the payment. As 
such, in the circumstances of this case, I feel the £200 recommended by our investigator is 
fair and reasonable. Meaning the total payment, I require Marks and Spencer to make to Mr 
B is £250 (this is includes the £50 already offered by Marks and Spencer).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Marks and Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to pay Mr B a total of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman