DRN-3319809
The complaint
Mr T has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Lines decision to 
decline a claim he made for malicious damage by a tenant under his landlord home and 
buildings insurance policy with it. 
All reference to the insurer UKI in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr T made a claim to their insurer, UKI for damage caused by a previous 
tenant to a property he rents out. 
UKI instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to attend the property to inspect the damage being 
claimed for. 
Mr T says the LA advised on site that their claim for damage to the flooring would be 
covered  and he has paid for the replacement flooring to three bedrooms, the first floor 
landing and a living room. Mr T was very unhappy when he was told by UKI that this part of 
the claim wouldnt be covered as the damage was deemed to be caused by wear and tear. 
Mr T raised a complaint with UKI. 
UKI said there was no recording of the conversation between Mr T and the LA on site. It 
checked the LAs report and found there wasnt anything to show they had agreed the 
flooring damage (or any other damage) was covered under the policy while on site. 
On review of photos of the flooring taken by the LA, UKI said it was satisfied that the 
damage was due to wear and tear. It said it seemed more likely that there may have been a 
misunderstanding  but UKI said it had correctly declined this part of their claim. 
Mr T remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was for UKI as the insurer to 
make the final decision as to what would be covered under the claim. Having reviewed the 
information provided by the LA, the Investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably. 
Mr T didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When there is a dispute between two parties about a discussion and there is no recording 
evidence of the discussion, we look at the remaining information to consider what  on 
balance  most likely happened. 
UKI has provided a copy of the LAs initial report following a virtual inspection due to 
restrictions in place at the time as a result of the Covid 19 pandemic. UKI has also provided 
a copy of to two subsequent reports  which list additional items Mr T wished to claim for 
and they include laminate flooring. This wasnt listed in the initial virtual report findings by the 
LA. 
A site visit took place in September 2020 and Ive seen a copy of the LA report dated 23 
October 2020. The report identifies additional items Mr T wished to claim for. The report 
reads that these items  including laminate flooring - were not discussed in the initial visit. I 
understand that subsequently some of the claim was accepted  but UKI says its decision to 
decline the claim for malicious damage to the flooring was correct. 
Ive looked at the photos provided by UKI of the laminate flooring. I cannot see evidence of 
malicious damage. 
So  taking into account the remaining information available in the absence of a recording of 
the discussion on site, I dont think this shows that its more likely the LA said UKI would 
cover the claim costs to replace the laminate flooring. 
This doesnt mean I dont believe Mr T. But Im unable to safely conclude that UKI acted 
unreasonably in declining this part of their claim based on the information available to it. I 
appreciate Mr T doesnt agree, but I think the photos of the flooring show any damage is 
more likely caused by wear and tear.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman