DRN-4214911
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) failed to provide him 
with appropriate assistance in the transfer of his pension savings to a new provider.
What happened
Mr Cs complaint relates to the transfer of his pension savings from Virgin to Aegon. As the 
sender of the transferred funds Virgin was responsible for dealing with Mr Cs instruction in a 
timely manner, by selling his pension investments and transferring the proceeds to the new 
provider. The transfer took far longer than Mr C thinks was reasonable.
Mr C has made complaints about the actions of all three regulated firms involved in this 
transfer, Chevening (Mr Cs financial advisor), Aegon, and Virgin. I have carefully considered 
the actions of each firm, and I think the responsibility for the delay is shared between all 
three. I am issuing separate decisions on the complaints made by Mr C against Aegon and 
Chevening that largely mirror my findings here. So for that reason, and for clarity, I have 
chosen to name all three firms in this decision.
I issued provisional decisions on this complaint, and the complaints against Chevening and 
Aegon, earlier this month. In my decision I explained why thought the actions Virgin had 
already taken to put things right for Mr C were sufficient. Both parties have received a copy 
of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Chevening provided Mr C with advice about the transfer of his pension savings in 
November 2019. Its advice was to combine two separate pensions, one of which was 
held with Virgin, into a single new plan to be held with Aegon. As part of that advice, 
Chevening recommended that Mr C should modify his investment approach to 
reduce the equity exposure, and so the risk, in his pension investments. Mr C agreed 
with Chevenings recommendation and agreed for the transfers to take place.
When Chevening first asked Virgin for information about Mr Cs pension savings, 
Virgin also sent the firm a form that it said would need to be completed should any 
transfer go ahead. Virgin did not offer transfers via the automated Origo Options 
system used by some other pension providers. But Chevening didnt ask Mr C to 
complete the transfer authorisation form provided by Virgin. Instead it asked Mr C to 
complete a form provided by the new receiving scheme, Aegon.
Chevening sent Mr Cs transfer request to Aegon on 30 January 2020, and Aegon 
sent the form on to Virgin on 12 February. Virgin confirmed receipt of Mr Cs 
instruction five days later. But on 21 February Virgin sent a letter to Aegon saying 
that it had rejected the transfer instruction. But the reasons Virgin provided were not 
entirely clear  it told Aegon that it needed any Letter of Authority to contain Mr Cs 
full postal address.
 
On 3 March, Mr C asked Chevening to provide him with an update on his transfer 
from Virgin. He noted that the transfer of his pension benefits from the other scheme, 
that had been requested at the same time, had completed a few weeks earlier. 
Chevening asked Aegon for an update, and following a series of phone calls between 
the three firms, the reason for Virgins rejection of the transfer request was identified. 
The form that Aegon had used to make the request did not contain Mr Cs full postal 
address. Mr C provided an updated application form on 5 March that was received by 
Virgin on 9 March.
Virgin still failed to process Mr Cs transfer request. On 9 April Virgin advised 
Chevening that Mr C needed to complete its own application form, rather than that 
provided by Aegon. Mr C completed that form and sent it to Virgin. Mr Cs transfer 
was completed on 21 April.
When Virgin looked at Mr Cs complaint it concluded that the form he had sent in on 
9 March was sufficient for it to complete his transfer. So it looked at whether Mr C 
had lost out as a result of the delay between when the transfer should have 
completed based on the receipt of that form (13 March) to its actual completion date 
(21 April). It concluded that Mr C hadnt lost out but paid him a total of £200 as 
compensation for his inconvenience.
But Mr C still considered that there had been a delay caused by the use of the wrong 
authorisation form, and due to the time it had taken for that problem to be identified. 
So he asked that we consider whether any of the parties were responsible for that 
part of the delay (between 22 February and 13 March).
As I have explained earlier, there are three regulated businesses involved in the 
matters that underpin Mr Cs complaint. In this decision I am only considering the 
actions, and responsibilities, of Virgin. And my directions will only relate to that firm. 
But I will naturally need to reflect on the actions of the other two firms. As I have said, 
I am issuing separate provisional decisions against Aegon and Chevening for their 
parts in the delay.
Virgin has already agreed that it should have been in a position to complete Mr Cs 
pension transfer when it received the updated application form containing his 
address in early March. I will consider what Virgin has done to put things right later in 
this decision. But I also need to consider whether Virgin had any responsibility for the 
delay that occurred between the transfer application initially being sent to the firm on 
22 February, and the point at which the updated form was received in early March.
I think the basic facts around that delay are not disputed. Virgin sent Chevening the 
forms that it said needed to be completed by Mr C to authorise the transfer when it 
provided information to Chevening about the pension plan in November 2019. I think 
the request Virgin made was reasonable, and set out clearly.
The information Virgin sent about the forms wasnt provided to Mr C, or to Aegon. So 
it was entirely Chevenings responsibility to ask Mr C to complete the relevant forms 
that had been sent, or at the very least to ensure that the application form Aegon 
used contained all the information that Virgin needed. That wasnt done, and so the 
initial cause of the delay appears to me to be due to the failings of Chevening.
Virgin received the transfer instruction from Aegon on 17 February. But four days 
later Virgin responded to Aegon. It said that it couldnt accept a letter of authority 
giving permission to access information about Mr Cs pension plan unless the letter 
of authority contained specific details including the consumers full address. But 
Aegon hadnt sent a letter of authority into Virgin  that had been sent by Chevening the previous October. So it seems there might have been some confusion about what 
Virgin had requested, and a delay was caused to Mr Cs transfer.
But it was Aegon that initially failed to act on the letter Virgin had sent. It seems that it 
wasnt until Mr C chased Chevening for a progress update on his transfer in early 
March that any further actions were taken. At that point there were discussions 
between Chevening, Aegon, and Virgin. From those discussions it became apparent 
that Virgin actually required Mr Cs address to be submitted as part of the transfer 
application  and that was what its message was actually referring to, rather than the 
erroneous reference to a letter of authority.
Once that missing information had been established, Mr C, Chevening, and Aegon 
acted quickly to provide the required information to Virgin. But I think that additional 
time can only be considered to be as a result of the wrong form being used in the first 
place. But as I said earlier, Virgin has agreed that it held all that it needed in early 
March, and that Mr Cs transfer should have been completed around 13 March.
So I dont conclude that any part of the delay between 21 February and 13 March 
was the responsibility of Virgin. In November 2019 it had clearly set out what it 
needed in order for a transfer to be authorised. And, although the language it used 
when initially rejecting Mr Cs transfer application was unclear, I dont think it 
prevented Aegon from seeking clarification of what was needed. I think the 
responsibility for that part of the delay was with Aegon. But Aegon and Chevening 
will need some information from Virgin to calculate the loss Mr C has suffered. 
I would expect that information to be provided to the firms promptly once it has been 
requested.
 
The value of Mr Cs pension savings fell significantly between 21 February and 13 
March. But they then rose again (though by a lesser amount) to the point at which 
Virgin actually completed the transfer. So, since I think Virgin was only responsible 
for the delay from 13 March onwards, I dont currently think its actions have caused 
Mr C to lose out. And I think that the compensation Virgin has paid to Mr C for his 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont think that Virgin 
needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Virgin and Mr C have said that they accept my provisional findings 
on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Virgin was responsible for a delay to Mr Cs pension transfer from 13 March onwards. The 
value of Mr Cs pension savings rose from that time to the point at which Virgin actually 
completed the transfer. So I dont think its actions have caused Mr C to lose out. And I think 
that the compensation Virgin has paid to Mr C for his inconvenience is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. So I dont think that Virgin needs to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont think 
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) needs to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman