DRN-2899937
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC declined a claim for storm damage under her 
home building insurance. 
Mr M is representing Miss P in this complaint.
What happened
Mr M contacted Zurich in February 2020 as he had noticed water leaking through his ceiling. 
This happened after a period of stormy weather, which caused damage to his roof. 
Mr M says he was told to arrange for a contractor to carry out temporary repairs, as it was 
unlikely to have someone attend his property for around six weeks. He then arranged for a 
contractor to have a look at the damaged roof. Some patch repairs were carried out, but this 
didnt entirely stop water leaking through the bathroom and bedroom ceilings. 
A surveyor was sent by Zurich after the temporary repairs had been carried out. At this time 
Mr M says he was told the roof damage was probably caused by the storm. But that it was 
not possible to confirm this because of the repairs that had been carried out.
Zurich has accepted liability for the temporary repairs to the roof. It has also covered the cost 
of internal damage to the building, in addition to compensation for delays in handling the 
claim. However, it has declined the claim for storm damage to the roof. 
Zurich points to the exclusions detailed in Mr Ms policy document. It says the cause of the 
external damage is not covered when it is the result of gradual deterioration, wear and tear 
or damage caused by bad workmanship.  
In its final response Zurich said the roof wasnt in a good condition at the time the damage 
occurred. It concluded the gradual deterioration over time meant the storm had revealed the 
inherent weaknesses in the roof that resulted in the damage. But this wasnt covered by its 
policy.  
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. In short, he felt the 
evidence demonstrated the roof was in a poor condition. He thought it was fair that Zurich 
had relied on the terms of the policy to decline the claim given the deteriorated state of the 
roof. 
Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not going to uphold the complaint, and this is for broadly the same 
reasons given by our investigator. Let me explain.
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for Zurich to decline Mr Ms claim for the reason it
gave. Ive relied, in part, on the information provided by the experts involved to decide 
whether an insured event occurred, and whether Zurich has shown that it fairly
relied on a valid exclusion.
Mr M said his roof was damaged as a result of stormy weather in February 2020. There are 
three points we consider when we look at a storm claim. The first is whether storm 
conditions occurred on or around the time of the damage. 
I have checked weather data around this time, at a weather station near Mr Ms home. Wind 
speeds up to 53mph had been recorded in the days leading up his claim. The policy does 
not set out a definition of storm conditions. But we generally accept that winds of this speed 
are storm force. I note there is no dispute from Zurich on this point. 
The second issue is whether the damage caused is consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. Dislodged and detached roof tiles are commonly associated with storm force winds. 
In a recorded call with Zurich, Mr Ms roofing contractor reinforces this point when he says 
several ridge tiles were blown off by the storm. Again, this point is not disputed by Zurich. 
Based on what I have seen I am satisfied the damage claimed is typical of storm damage. 
The final point I must be satisfied with, is whether storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. 
Zurich arranged for a surveyor to visit Mr Ms home. Photographs were taken of the roof, and 
reference made to google map images from 2018. The surveyor comments that the roof 
looks to have had several patch repairs over the years, in addition to the most recent 
temporary repairs. 
There is a letter from a contractor who provided an estimate to repair or to replace the roof. 
The contractor says the most financially viable option is to replace the roof covering 
completely. His letter refers to the roof, in a fragile state, due to storm damage. 
I note Mr Ms contractor, during his call with Zurich, refers to the roof as in a fair condition. 
He refers to ridge tiles having blown off and damaged other tiles. He also comments that the 
tiles in place were no longer available, that they were based on empirical measurements, 
and couldnt be sourced. Hence why he used felting and an acrylic paint to perform repairs. 
Zurich has said it will not cover roof repairs or a replacement as this is the result of 
longstanding issues and defective repairs. In its view further damage has been caused to the 
roof as a result of the temporary repairs carried out by Mr Ms contractor. 
I do not dispute the integrity of any of the views provided as to the condition of the roof. 
However, the evidence that the roof is in a poor condition and was so prior to the storm 
damage, is persuasive. The photographs provided do clearly show previous historic patch 
repairs to the roof in several areas. 
Zurich provided a call recording from when Mr M made his initial claim. I have listened to this 
recording. Mr M comments on some work that was done to the roof five or six years ago. He 
says dripping was noticed at this time, which resulted in this work being done. This ties in 
with the companys view that there had been a need for previous patch repairs to the roof. 
I note Zurich has referred to lichen and other growth evident from the photos, which it says 
further support the view that the roof was not in a good condition, and lacking maintenance.Zurich has relied on the following terms from the policy, these say, This policy does not 
insure the following: 11. Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including 
deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.  
I am satisfied that storm force winds were experienced immediately prior to the damage 
being reported. However, rather than being the sole cause of the damage, it is reasonable to 
conclude this revealed weakness in a roof that was already in a deteriorated condition. Mr 
Ms building insurance policy is intended to cover the cost of unexpected, sudden events. It 
is not intended to pay for issues that have developed over time. 
In considering all of this, I think Zurichs conclusion that the damage resulted from 
deterioration of the roof over time, due to wear and tear, is fair, based on the evidence 
provided. Its argument that strong winds revealed the inherent weakness in a roof already in 
poor condition, is the most persuasive. 
I note compensation for £250 was provided to Mr M for the initial delays in arranging an 
assessment of the damage, and for the overall time taken in handling his claim. Given the 
worry and inconvenience this caused Mr M, I think it was appropriate for Zurich to provide 
compensation, and this amount was fair.     
I think Zurich has acted fairly in relying on the terms of the policy when declining the claim. 
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman