DRN-2710097
The complaint
Mrs D complains that QIC Europe Ltd declined her claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI). 
Shes also unhappy with the time it took for them to reach their decision. 
Where I refer to QIC, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2019 Mrs D lived in property A. At that time, she held a LEI policy in relation to property A 
that was provided by QIC. In July 2019 Mrs D exchanged contracts for the purchase of 
another property Ill refer to as property B. The sale completed in October 2019. 
For a period of time Mrs D continued to live in property A whilst works were completed at 
property B. Ultimately, Mrs D sold and moved out of property A in November 2019, taking up 
residence in property B. 
In October 2019 Mrs D became aware that the sellers of property B had provided her with 
the wrong council tax band in relation to the property. This meant she would have ongoing 
costs greater than she was led to believe they would be. She wanted to take legal action 
against the sellers with the assistance of QIC for a breach of contract. Mrs D logged her 
claim with QIC in November 2019. 
Ultimately in March 2020 QIC declined the claim. They sought to rely on a policy term that 
said contract disputes about property purchases were only covered in relation to Mrs Ds 
main home. They considered Mrs Ds main home to be property A and that she hadnt 
insured property B with them. Mrs D complained and when QIC maintained their position the 
matter was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary she 
thought QIC had correctly applied the policy term. She acknowledged there had been delays 
but didnt think this had an impact to warrant a compensation award. Mrs D disagrees and 
has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mrs D, so Ill explain why. 
The claim
Under the heading of Consumer Disputes Mrs Ds policy provides cover for:
Professional fees arising from a contractual dispute relating to an agreement which an 
insured person has entered into for:
i. Receiving services;
ii. Buying...or selling any personal goods: or
iii. Buying or selling your home.
Home is given a specific definition in the policy of Your main private home, which must be 
within the territorial limits.
Ive also seen the schedule for the QIC policy and the address it relates to is property A. The 
dispute Mrs D has with the sellers relates to property B. I dont think property B can fairly be 
considered to be Mrs Ds main private home in relation to the QIC policy. Mrs D might have 
entered into an agreement to purchase it whilst insured with QIC, but her own evidence 
supports that she continued to live at property A until November 2019. And owning (or 
having agreed to buy) property B doesnt persuade me that it can be considered her main 
private home as required by the policy term. 
For completeness Ive also considered if property B could be considered personal goods as 
listed at ii above. I think QIC were reasonable when concluding it didnt. I dont believe a 
property can fairly be considered personal goods, particularly when specific provision is 
given in relation to property / a home at iii.
So overall, I dont think QIC acted outside the policy terms or unfairly when declining the 
claim. Property B wasnt Mrs Ds main home at the relevant time and so a contract dispute 
about its purchase wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mrs D believes that she is at a disadvantage as she says she didnt have an insurable 
interest in property B until completion in October 2019, but she was committed to buy it in 
July (at exchange) under Scottish law (where the property is). My decision is limited to 
considering QIC and their decision in relation to their policy. And for the reasons Ive 
explained I think QIC acted fairly as property B wasnt Mrs Ds main home (irrespective of 
when she became contractually obliged to buy it). And I cant comment here on Mrs Ds 
insurer for property B and whether she could have insured herself from exchange nor any 
claims decision that insurer might make. This may be something (subject to our jurisdiction) 
Mrs D could refer to our service if she were to complain to her new insurer. 
The Service
Our investigator has already set out the timeline in relation to the claim, so I wont repeat it 
again here. But essentially the claim was made in November 2019 and a decision was made 
in March 2020. Some of that time period involved QIC seeking further information and they 
say the earliest they could have given their decision was in January 2020. 
I agree that QIC could have communicated better with Mrs D. But Im not persuaded that this 
had a significant impact. It commonly takes some time for an insurer to make sure they 
properly consider a claim before reaching a decision. And whilst I acknowledge QIC could 
have reached and communicated their decision sooner, Im not persuaded this impacted on 
the legal action Mrs D wishes to take nor that it caused distress and inconvenience to the 
extent that compensation needs to be paid. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman