DRN-3162954
The complaint
Mr F complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison), lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Madison approved a £3,000 loan for Mr F on 9 April 2019 and it credited one of his current 
accounts on 10 April 2019. Mr F had given the reason for applying for the loan as debt 
consolidation. The term was to be 12 months with repayments of just over £335 each 
month. Madison has informed us that the outstanding balance was assigned to a debt 
purchaser in December 2019. 
Mr F complained to Madison and received its final response letter (FRL) in June 2021. 
Madison had not upheld his complaint and he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman in 
July 2021.
In one of the telephone calls with one of our adjudicators when Mr F was setting up his 
complaint, he also referred to two defaults having been entered against the one loan in or 
around September 2019. Having checked the FRL that incorrect default issue was not 
addressed by Madison. And Mr F has not sent to our adjudicators any details about those 
default entries. So, it looks like its not been investigated. And this decision does not cover 
that element of Mr Fs concern with Madison. It can be addressed later as a separate 
complaint. 
During those telephone conversations with Mr F, the recordings, all of which I have listened 
to, he also raised the mental health impact on him because of  having to repay this loan and 
another he took out in the same month with a different lender. I come back to this in the main 
body of my decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint about irresponsible lending, which are the 
parameters of this complaint with Madison, and did not think that Madison had to do 
anything to put things right for Mr F. He did think that Madison ought to have carried out 
further checks at the time of lending, but our adjudicators view after looking at the details to 
see what Madison may have seen if it had done that, did not persuade him Madison had 
done anything wrong.
Mr F disagreed and I set out below, in the main part of my decision, the submissions he has 
made to support his complaint. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr F wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr F. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.Mr F said that he had just taken a £4,000 loan costing him £330 a month and so Madison 
should have seen that and realised this loan was unaffordable to him. Using information we 
have already from Mr F and details relating to that other complaint file then I have seen that 
the agreement for the other loan commenced later in April 2019. I have seen that the £4,000 
relating to that other loan credited one of Mr Fs accounts on 29 April 2019. As the Madison 
loan was approved on 9 April 2019 then the other loan to which Mr F refers is wholly 
irrelevant as it post-dates this loan from Madison.
Mr F has told us that he was in an overdraft position on his bank account and that was a 
detrimental situation and one Madison should have accounted for. I have reviewed one set 
of banks statements we have received from Mr F and it does show that he had  and was 
using  his overdraft facility on that account. This was a well-known high street account. And 
I can see that sometimes Mr F went into an unarranged overdraft position, and sometimes 
Mr F corrected the position by transferring from one of his other two accounts money into the 
overdraft account. 
Madison may have seen these bank statements if it had needed to, and if it had asked to 
see them, and if Mr F had sent to Madison those bank account statements rather than the 
other set  an on-line account. The on-line account shows a much healthier situation. And 
overall, reviewing both sets of accounts plus the details Madison had obtained about Mr F 
from its credit searches then I dont think that the overdraft situation would have prevented 
Madison from lending to him. 
In addition to the above points, Mr F has said that at the time he took the Madison loan he 
had payday loans, he had missed payments on those loans, he had a significant number of 
missed payments on his credit cards and a very low credit score. Mr F describes himself as 
being in financial difficulty at the time and Madison was wrong to lend. 
Madison had reviewed Mr Fs credit commitment situation and history in a credit search it did 
before lending and that document has been sent to us. Here is a summary from that 
document showing Mr Fs indebtedness at the time he was applying for the Madison loan: 
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 5,466
Total Balances (Loans/Installment [sic] Credit): £ 1,252
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 2,215
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 2,600
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 85 %
In general, I would not consider that what Madison saw here was likely to have caused it 
concern. And I address some of Mr Fs specific points below. 
I have seen that Mr F had at least three credit cards and I have not seen any missed 
payments on those. One was for a £350 limit and had a zero balance. One had a £750 limit 
and his balance was £718 and so near but not at the limit. Another had a limit of £1,500 and 
his balance on the credit search result showed the balance as £1,497. For each of these 
credit cards the credit search noted he had good repayment histories. It would not, in my 
view, have been something Madison was likely to have been concerned about. And looking forward - Ive seen that two significant payments to credit cards were made by 
Mr F to two different credit card accounts on 1 May 2019. So, it looks like he may have used 
the money from Madison to do that which he explained was one of the reasons for applying 
for the loan. 
Mr F had two mail order accounts both with zero balances.
I have seen from Mr Fs high street bank account statement that he paid off a payday lender 
(£439) on 1 March 2019. But there are no other entries for any other payday loans. And 
Mr Fs credit search (sent to us by Madison) show other loans with finance houses, which 
may have been payday lenders, but they were all closed. I would not expect a lender to be 
concerned by loans that had been paid off and closed. 
Mr F appears to have had another on-line bank account but Mr F has not provided those 
statements or list of transactions relating to that account. 
Overall, I do not agree with Mr Fs submissions. And at the time Mr F was applying to 
Madison for good reasons including to assist him with his transition to a new job in London, 
then I do not consider he was in financial difficulty. 
Having seen what Madison did before lending, then I think the checks were reasonable and 
proportionate. Those checks suggest the loan was affordable and Mr F could sustain the 
repayments over the term. I appreciate what Mr F has said. But I dont think that it was 
something Madison knew or ought to have known from what I consider to be proportionate 
checks.
As I said in the what happened section of this decision, it does not look like Madison has 
investigated the complaint point surrounding the default or defaults entered on Mr Fs credit 
file. And I have no evidence from Mr F about this either. In fairness to Madison, I have seen 
Mr Fs original complaint letter  before Madison issued its FRL  and there is no reference 
to an issue with default entries. And so, I make no findings on that. 
I have thought about what Mr F has said about his mental health deterioration after he took 
this loan and the other one with that other lender later in April 2019. But Ive no evidence 
about it and Mr F on the telephone call with our adjudicator did describe this as being a 
deterioration after the loan had been given. As my decision relates to the circumstances 
surrounding the loan approval (9 April 2019) then I do not consider that within the scope of 
this complaint and I make no findings about that part. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman