DRN-1620059
The complaint
Miss M is complaining that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) sent her bank 
statements and a cheque book in unsealed envelopes.
What happened
In November 2019 NatWest sent Miss M a new cheque book. She later called Natwest to 
complain that it had sent the cheque book in an unsealed envelope. She also said that it had 
previously sent a bank statement to her in an unsealed envelope as well. Miss M explained 
she lives in a maisonette and the corridor entrance is shared with her neighbours. So she 
said she was concerned her neighbours could access her bank statements.
NatWest apologised for this and offered Miss M £30 in compensation. It also said it would 
arrange to send statements electronically in the future. Miss M didn't think this was fair 
compensation. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said it wasn't this service's role to fine and 
punish a business, but we look to put the consumer back in the position they'd be in had the 
error not occurred.
The investigator said there wasn't anything to show that the issues Miss M had had 
were down to the actions of NatWest, as he said the letters could have been unsealed at any 
point. He didn't think that this matter had had a significant impact on Miss M. He accepted 
that it might have been upsetting to her, but he didn't think she'd lost out as a result of the 
envelope not being sealed as no one else had accessed them. So he thought NatWest's 
offer of £30 was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
I should first explain that this service doesn't regulate the financial industry. So it's not our 
role to fine and punish a business. This service is a dispute resolution service and we look to 
see whether a business has done as it should have done. And, if it hasn't, we look at 
whether it's taken fair steps to put things right.
NatWest hasn't disputed that Miss M received letters unsealed, so I don't intend to comment 
any further in this respect. In this decision I'm assessing whether I think £30 is fair 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused her. I think it is.
Miss M has told NatWest and this service that she doesn't think the envelopes were opened 
or accessed by anyone else. While I note Miss M is concerned that someone could have 
accessed them, they didn't do so. So she hasn't lost out as a result of anything NatWest may 
have done wrong.I acknowledge Miss M was upset to receive the letters unsealed. But I'm satisfied that £30 is 
fair compensation for the distress that this caused her. So I don't think NatWest needs to pay 
her anything further for this. 
I also understand NatWest offered to cancel the cheque book, but Miss M didn't want it to do 
so. It also arranged to have statements sent electronically in the future. So I'm satisfied that 
NatWest has taken fair steps to look to put things right and to try and prevent this from 
happening again.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has offered Miss M £30 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it's caused. I think this is fair compensation in the circumstances of this 
complaint, so I don't think it needs to offer anything further. It should pay this to her directly if 
it hasn't already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman