DRN-3187582
The complaint
Mr D is concerned about the lack of transparency when attempting to make a claim on his 
motor policy arranged for him by One Call Insurance Services Limited. Mr D said hes also 
had difficulty speaking to them.
What happened
Mr Ds existing policy with One Call renewed on 22 January 2021. One Call are responsible 
for administering the contract of insurance, and the insurer, who Ill call A, are responsible for 
things such as claims.
On 22 June 2021 Mr D contacted One Calls claims number to register a claim with them 
regarding an incident hed been involved in. Mr D says he heard a recorded message, which 
said hed be dealing with a different company (who Ill call O) to that of A for his claim. He 
said the recorded message explained hed need to sign an agreement with this different 
company and would be responsible for all costs. He said he objected to One Call trying to do 
this, as this wasnt disclosed in the terms and conditions.
One Call looked into Mr Ds concerns. They said theyd provided documents to Mr D when 
his policy renewed (and in the previous policy year) which all showed the claims number to 
call. They explained because Mr D had insured his policy through them, it was them hed call 
 and if he needed to be redirected for example to his insurer A, then theyd tell him that. 
And in respect of not being able to call them to raise customer service related questions, 
they explained due to the pandemic theyd changed their business model and decided to 
become internet only for the majority of their business  but the claims number Mr D called 
was the right one. Overall, they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr D asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
overall found One Call hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree. He felt One Call hadnt been transparent, as hes solely insured with A for 
any claim or claim handling issues. He said if there were any specific and chargeable 
additional services One Call wanted to offer as part of his motor policy, it wasnt something 
that formed any part of the original contract with them. He also explained hed opted out of 
marketing with One Call.
Because Mr D didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make it clear I cant tell One Call to change their processes and procedures, all I 
can do is look at the impact of those procedures on Mr D  and decide if I think 
compensation is appropriate.
I say that because its One Calls procedure to have this other company (which is part of the 
One Call group) initially handle claims on their and the insurers behalf.
Ive listened to the recorded message Mr D heard. The relevant parts of the message say:
Thank you for calling O we handle claims on behalf of One Call Insurance, and their 
insurance partners. Just to confirm we are a claims management company who handles 
claims on behalf of One Call Insurance Services Limited. There are some really important 
pieces of information we need to explain to you. and then we need to establish liability for 
the collision. If we think you are at fault, we will transfer you to a dedicated team who can 
then take the claim forward. If we dont think you are responsible for the accident, then you 
will be given a choice. O can offer repair, recover and a replacement hire vehicle while your 
vehicle is being repaired. Or we can pass you through to your insurer. As you are dealing 
with Oyou will not be claiming against your policy of insurance and will not have an excess 
to pay. You would however, have to sign legally binding agreements with Owhich meant 
you were ultimately responsible for the costs incurred. However, we will seek to recover 
those costs from the at fault insurer, and if that claim is unsuccessful, then under the terms 
of the agreement you enter into, you would have no liability to O Alternatively, we can 
pass you through to your insurer, and you can make a claim against your policy of 
insurance.
Mr Ds complaint regarding this element is that he was told by One Call hed have to deal 
with O, rather than A, as hed expected.
I think this recorded message makes it clear if Mr D wanted to only deal with A, then he 
could be passed through to them. Ive noted Mr Ds point that this isnt mentioned on the 
policy documents anywhere that hed be dealing with A. But here I need to consider the 
impact this information had  and the information given says if he wants to be passed 
directly to his insurer then he can be. 
With that in mind, I wont be upholding this element of his complaint.
Ive noted that following this, Mr D was then unhappy with the service provided to him when 
he wanted to query this. I can see why this would have felt quite frustrating for him. But, from 
what Ive been provided with, Mr D was ultimately able to speak to someone to discuss the 
concerns he had. And, as Ive found above, the concerns he had were about having to deal 
with a company other than A  but the recording makes it clear he can speak to A if he 
wishes.
Overall, taking everything into account, I think its sufficiently clear on the call recording if 
Mr D wanted to speak to A he could have done so  and I dont find he was prevented from 
doing so, or required to sign any agreement with O to get to A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman