DRN-3153933
The complaint
Mr A has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to switch his personal pensions to a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP). 
He believes that the advice was unsuitable and the investments werent in line with his risk 
profile. 
What happened
Mr A met with Portafina in 2013 and completed a review of his pension arrangements.
At the time, he held two personal pensions with Aviva which had transfer values of £19,893 
and £4,865. Both plans were invested in with profits funds and had an annual bonus rate of 
4% a year. 
A financial questionnaire was completed on 30 May 2013 which showed Mr A:
Was 51 and intended to retire at age 63.
Was married and employed, with an income of £35,000 a year.
Had two defined contribution pensions which he wasnt contributing to and a defined 
benefit occupational pension, with 28 years service.
Lived in rented accommodation and had £27,000 in cash savings. He had no 
investments.
His objectives were Consolidate existing pension plans; and Better investment 
performance. It was noted he was very likely to take tax free cash at 55.
Mr A completed a risk profile questionnaire in March 2013 which classed his attitude to risk 
(ATR) as adventurous.
Portafina produced a Suitability Report on 8 January 2014 which recommended Mr A switch 
his personal pensions into a Novia SIPP and invest in a range of ten funds, six of which were 
described as illiquid secured bonds. 
The Novia SIPP was opened in January 2014 and a total of £27,265.51 was transferred from 
Aviva on 10 March 2014. This was invested in the following seven funds, a change to the 
original recommendation:
 Lakeview UK Investments 
 Real Estate Investments USA 
 Strategic Residential Developments
 AXA Framlington Managed Balanced 
 Henderson Global Care Managed
 OM Cirilium Moderate
 Old Mutual Managed
£9,300 was allocated equally to the Lakeview, Real Estate Investments and Strategic 
Residential funds, which were illiquid, structured products with five year terms. £1,328 was 
invested in each of the other four funds, with the remainder held in cash.
In 2015 Portafina recommended Mr A disinvest from the four retail funds and reinvest the 
proceeds, along with most of the residual cash, in two new funds. The new investment 
allocated approximately 90% to the Dimensional World Equity fund and 5% in the 
Dimensional Global Short-Dated Bond, with 5% held as cash.
In June 2019 Mr A complained to Portafina that the switch to a SIPP was unsuitable and the 
investments werent in line with his risk profile. Portafina didnt agree with Mr A, so he 
approached our service to review his complaint.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think the recommendation to 
switch the pensions to a SIPP and invest in the recommended funds was suitable. In 
summary, the reasons for the investigator reaching this conclusion were:
In terms of the switch 
Both the policies were with-profits contracts attracting a guaranteed growth rate of 
4% a year. The investigator considered that the advantages of the guaranteed 
growth rate were not discussed in enough detail in the suitability report, nor was 
there any discussions about potential terminal bonus levels and how that 
performance could compare to the recommended investments.
The reason stated to the customer for switching the Aviva plans was generic in that it 
stated he should consider a switch if he was interested in lower charges, better 
administration and improved fund performance. Although the Novia SIPP charges 
were disclosed to the customer, there was no overall comparison of the Aviva plan 
charges of 0.875% per annum, as compared with the combined wrapper charge, 
fund charge and on-going advice fee of 1.8% per annum. The report also discounted 
Stakeholder pensions for the reason that the client couldnt take tax free cash or 
income from this type of pension, yet at the point of advice the client was only aged 
52 and unable to take any benefits from pension arrangements. The investigator 
couldnt evidence any concerns over the administration of the ceding arrangements.
In terms of attitude to risk
The investigator considered the answers given by Mr A to the risk profile 
questionnaire on 7 March 2013 to be highly contradictory. He agreed people would 
say he was cautious, disagreed that he was comfortable investing in the stock market 
and agreed he was concerned about the volatility of investments. Yet, he also 
disagreed he looked for safer investments, agreed he was willing to take substantial 
investment risk and agreed he would rather take his chances in higher risk 
investments than increase his savings figures. Mr A also strongly disagreed he had 
little experience in investing in stocks and shares, yet on the fact find his only other 
investment was recorded as a cash ISA. Part of the description for that rating used in 
the suitability report is that adventurous investors typically have high levels of  
financial knowledge and are usually experienced investors who have used a range of 
investment products in the past. He didnt consider the file evidenced that 
Adventurous was the correct assessment of Mr As ATR, particularly given the 
inconsistency in his risk profiler responses, his lack of any other stock market 
investment and his occupation.
He was unable to evidence any further discussions about risk and reward, or any 
evidence Portafina tried to clarify these inconsistent risk profiler responses before 
issuing their suitability report in January 2014, some ten months after the original risk profile questionnaire had been completed. The adviser should have had a robust 
conversation with Mr A to challenge the contradictions highlighted, in order to reach a 
mutually agreed outcome for the risk assessment. Without this, the investigator 
considered the result of the risk assessment Portafina LLP has relied on was unsafe. 
In his view, Mr A was at most a medium or balanced risk investor.
In terms of the investments Portafina had recommended
The Lakeview UK, Real Estate Investments USA and Strategic Retail Developments 
investments were stated as having five-year terms, with interest payments of 
between 11% and 15% per annum. Although the report did mention these funds were 
illiquid, it also stated that these types of investments were suitable as they would 
produce returns that could be used to meet the clients income requirements. Yet the 
fact find information stated only that Mr A was unsure of his income requirements.
In January 2013 the Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued an alert that reminded 
firms of the rules that were in force at the time of the sale of the SIPP. The alert 
stated:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investment proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen advisers moving customers retirement savings 
to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, 
often illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes)
The investigator considered the illiquidity warning about these funds in the suitability 
report did not provide enough information about the risks involved and the potential 
disadvantages of these funds was not addressed in any detail, which he would 
consider to be of high importance as Mr A was an inexperienced investor. The SIPP 
statement of April 2019, showed two of these bond funds were still valued at their 
original investment amount, whereas the Strategic Retail Development PLC fund 
value had collapsed from £3,100 to £424.70. The possibility of such a large reduction 
in the value of this fund was not considered, or explained, in the suitability report.
An FSA report from July 2010 (Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes: Good 
and poor practice report) also cited as an example of good practice
The firm set up a maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS investments within their 
customers portfolio and monitored it on on-going basis. This level was between 3% 
and 5% and was backed-up by the Firms robust and on-going due diligence and 
monitoring.
The investment recommendation offered by Portafina LLP cannot be considered 
evidence of good practice. Although the suitability report noted that due diligence had 
been carried out on the secured bond funds, over 35% of the investments were 
placed into illiquid funds (the original recommendation was for double this). There 
was nothing to indicate Mr A wanted or needed a SIPP other than to accommodate 
the unregulated investments that were recommended.
Mr A also complained specifically about being invested in funds managed by 
Dimensional. These funds were not selected by Portafina LLP until September 2015. 
This investment was split 90% Dimensional World Equity Fund, 5% Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Fund and 5% cash. The investigator couldnt evidence that 
full information regarding the risks of these funds was given to Mr A, although there is 
a document on file which he signed to give his agreement to the proposed changes.
Although the Global Short Dated Bond Fund had a lower risk rating, the Dimensional 
World Equity fund had over 80% of its assets invested in overseas equities. Whilst 
this asset allocation would not be unsuitable for an adventurous investor, he 
considered that Mr As ATR was not assessed correctly and that this fund exposed 
him to a higher level of risk than he would be comfortable with.
The investigator upheld Mr As complaint about the unsuitability of switching his pension 
policies and placing the monies into high risk funds. He set out the redress and provided 
instructions for what Portafina needed to do to put things right. 
Both Mr A and Portafina accepted the investigators findings so our of file was closed on the 
basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings.
However, Portafina has now requested that the complaint is considered by an ombudsman, 
as it has changed its position and didnt agree the recommendation was unsuitable. Because 
Mr A hasnt received a settlement from Portafina, he has also requested that the complaint is 
considered by an ombudsman.  
As both parties have requested that the complaint is reopened, we have agreed to do so on
this occasion. The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its firstly important to explain that under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the
regulators handbook, Portafina has an obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty
to comply with any settlement it has agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements
DISP 3 3.7.3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina failed to settle the complaint in line
with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of this matter for
Mr A but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by
both parties. But in this case both parties have requested the complaint is reopened, so we
have agreed to do so on this occasion.
I am aware that when Portafina originally accepted the investigators view and agreed to 
redress Mr A, it said that the relevant investments from 2014 were minibonds, not UCIS and 
therefore the guidance from 2010 didnt apply. It also disagreed with the investigators 
assessment of Mr As ATR as not being adventurous and his view that the Dimensional 
Equity fund didnt match his risk profile. However, Portafina said it was aware of the FOS 
viewpoint on minibonds so wouldnt be appealing the findings.As the business agreed to redress Mr A in line with the investigators findings there was no 
further discussion about these issues. When Portafina said it was appealing the view in 
March 2021, it was because of these same reasons. 
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. So Im 
upholding this complaint on the basis that the investments Portafina recommended for Mr A 
were unsuitable. 
The Aviva pensions had a bonus rate of 4% a year, which represented good value in 2014. If 
a consumer was going to give up this guarantee I would expect it to be for very good and 
clearly defined reasons. I cant see that this was the case. As the investigator noted, there 
was no discussion around why Mr A was willing to give this up.
Mr As only objectives were consolidation, the potential for better returns and the possibility 
that he might want to take a tax free lump sum at age 55. None of these objectives, either 
individually or collectively provided sufficient justification for the switch.
Both plans were held with the same provider and, as with profits policies, required no input 
or oversight from Mr A. Consolidating two plans which required no investment decisions or 
monitoring into one SIPP which did require oversight and regular reviews didnt offer any 
benefit to the consumer. 
It is possible the new pension could exceed the guaranteed growth rate of 4% a year, but the 
likelihood of this being achieved consistently every year was low, even if adventurous funds 
with a greater chance of growth were chosen. I cant see that the very real possibility of 
being worse off was discussed with Mr A in any meaningful sense.
If Mr A genuinely intended to take tax free cash at age 55, three years from the point of 
advice, he only had a relatively short time to recoup any losses from his high risk 
investments, three of which couldnt be accessed until two years after he thought he might 
want the money.
Furthermore, it wasnt a certainty that Mr A would want to take any lump sum at age 55. 
There was no discussion about why he wanted the funds then, which supports the 
investigators view that the objectives were generic. And there was no consideration of 
simply leaving the pensions with Aviva for another three years (here they would continue to 
grow at 4% a year) and switching to a SIPP when and if the consumer wanted to take the tax 
free cash.
Mr A completed a risk profiling tool which classed him as having an adventurous attitude to 
risk. Portafina have argued they were entitled to rely upon the consumers responses as 
being accurate and the output was the result of a third partys tool, which the consumer 
could have challenged if he disagreed with.
Using a risk profiling tool is a valuable part in establishing a consumers attitude to risk, but I 
dont think its reasonable to rely on it in isolation and without regard to any other factors. In 
this case, Mr A had no recorded investment experience, so I would be wary of accepting any 
answers where he didnt have first hand experience to make sure he was giving an informed 
response. For instance, the fact he had £27,000 in cash savings but no investments doesnt 
indicate he was naturally inclined to place his capital at risk of loss.
Even if Mr A did have an adventurous ATR, this didnt mean the adviser had to recommend 
he placed his pension funds at risk when there was no real need for him to do so. Many consumers might have the tolerance for higher risk investments, but if an adviser cant see 
any reason to run the risk of capital loss, I would expect them to advise against doing so.
As Mr A had a defined benefit pension with his employer, which had 28 years service, he 
may have been able to expose some of his pension funds to higher risk investments, but I 
dont think this means, as a first time investor, he was able to invest in any asset, 
irrespective of the associated risks. Portafina has argued the Lakeview, Real Estate 
Investments and Strategic Residential funds arent UCIS investments, but are minibonds, so 
the regulators guidance from 2010 isnt relevant. It also noted the level of investment in 
these funds was currently 11.8%.
Whether the funds are classed as UCIS, or minibonds, it isnt disputed that they are high-
risk, illiquid funds and arent appropriate for inexperienced investors. They shouldnt have 
been recommended to Mr A to any extent and placing 30% of a balanced, or even 
adventurous, investors pension portfolio in these funds was unsuitable. Because of this, Mr 
A was exposed to a higher level of overall risk than was appropriate for him.
The fact that the share of his pension held in these funds is now 11.8% isnt surprising, as 
its only a reflection of the poor performance and high level of risk associated with the funds 
compared to the rest of Mr As portfolio. The collapse in value of the Strategic Residential 
fund from £3,100 to £424.70  which helped to lower the share of the portfolio invested this 
way  doesnt make it the investments more suitable, it only serves to demonstrate how risky 
they are. The change in the portfolio make-up isnt from any adjustment or re-allocation of 
funds and even if it were, actions taken many years after the event cant retrospectively 
make unsuitable advice suitable. For the avoidance of doubt, I also believe that investing 
11.8% of Mr As portfolio in these types of funds would be unsuitable for him.
It may be that Mr A would still have wanted to switch funds anyway if he wanted to take a 
risk in order to get a better level of return on 4% a year. However, this should only have 
gone ahead after the adviser made him aware that there was no need to do so and he would 
be as likely to be worse off after switching as he would be to make a gain.
Because there was no good reason for recommending giving up the guaranteed returns his 
Aviva pensions provided, the recommendation to switch to a SIPP wasnt suitable for Mr A. 
A significant share of the portfolio was to be invested in funds which could never be 
appropriate for him, so how the remainder of the SIPP was invested is immaterial when 
there was such a weak rationale for switching in the first place.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr A fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Novia SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Mr A provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr A's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the
amount calculated as set out above. Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of 
its calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman