DRN-3976652
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the way Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) handled 
her request for money back in relation to flights shed paid for using her credit card. 
What happened
In February 2020 Ms B paid for return flights for her and her partner to Spain. She paid 
£358.98 for her flights (and baggage), and £223.98 for her partners flights. The transactions 
were made separately. Outbound flights were on 28 August 2020. 
Ms B says that due to Covid-19 she was going to be unable to use flights because of UK 
Government regulations about non-essential travel, as well as Spanish lockdown rules. So 
she tried to contact the flight company but was unable to get through. She says she wanted 
to ask whether she could move the flights to the following year or request a refund. She was 
unable to get through so decided to contact Creation to ask for help.  
Ms B says she spoke to Creation a few times. She says Creation advised her to contact the 
supplier on a call shed made to it to log the dispute on 11 August 2020. Ms B says she had 
difficulty reaching the supplier. Then, on the 24 August 2020 she had two further 
conversations with Creation. She says initially Creation told her to cancel the flight. But it 
called her back straight away and told not to cancel them. In Ms Bs words, the advisor 
reassured her Creation would be able to take up my case with [the airline] and, fingers 
crossed, get 100% of my funds back. Creations notes, however, say ADVISED 
CUSTOMER NOT TO CANCEL FLIGHT GET IN CONTACT WITH THE AIRLINE AND 
CONTINUE WITH RAISED DISPUTE. 
The flights went ahead as planned, but Ms B didnt use them. 
Ms B says she chased Creation for a response over the next few months. And I can see 
Creation wrote to Ms B in December 2020 to say a breach of contract would occur if the 
supplier cancelled the booking. It also said if Ms B cancelled the booking, and the terms said 
she was due a refund but the supplier refused, Creation would claim for it. It asked Ms B to 
provide details of the cancellation policy, and also asked her to check her travel insurance. 
Ms B complained because she says she was misinformed. Ultimately, the flights went ahead 
so there was no breach of contract from that perspective. And Ms B says she lost out on 
being able to reschedule her flights or obtain a credit note as a result of Creations advice. 
Creation responded in February 2021 to say as the flight cancellations werent instigated by 
the supplier it was unable to claim the transaction amounts back for her. It apologised if it 
had misinformed her on one of the calls. But it said none of its call handlers are in a position 
to be able to guarantee a claim can be made. It also acknowledged the claim had been 
ongoing for some time. But it said this was as a result of being busy since the start of Covid-
19. But it did apologise and say it applied a credit to Ms Bs credit card of £100 by way of an 
apology. 
Ms B was unhappy for the same reasons. She thought Creations advice had deprived her of 
the opportunity to approach the supplier for help. Creation didnt change its position. It said 
whether or not Ms B cancelled her flights she still wouldnt have received a refund. 
Ms B asked for call recordings, but they werent all available. So she decided to bring the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She didnt think there was a valid chargeback 
code that Creation could have used because Ms B didnt cancel the flights, and the flights 
went ahead. And even if Ms B had cancelled the flights, she didnt think a valid chargeback 
could have been raised. She also thought about whether Ms Bs claim ought to have 
succeeded under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She said the necessary 
relationship for a valid section 75 claim only existed for Ms Bs purchase  i.e., not her 
partners. But in any event, as the flights went ahead, there was no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation that wouldve led to a successful claim. 
However, our investigator also thought about whether Ms B wouldve done anything different 
had she not been misadvised. And she thought that Ms B mightve decided to reschedule 
her flights if she was told her claim wasnt guaranteed to succeed. Our investigator thought it 
likely Ms Bs expectations hadnt been managed properly. But she also considered if Ms B 
did decide to reschedule the flights there could be a fee to pay. Our investigator thought 
Creation should pay Ms B a further £150 in recognition of the misinformation from Creation. 
It looks like Ms B was willing to accept the outcome, but Creation didnt agree. It said it didnt 
guarantee Ms Bs claim would succeed. And it also highlighted it had already compensated 
Ms B £100. We put Creations response to Ms B but she was still unhappy and thought £100 
wasnt sufficient. She also highlighted she tried to get help with the supplier but didnt get a 
response. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Ms B was impacted by Covid-19. And I want to thank her 
for taking the time to refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Im considering whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Ms Bs request for getting her money back. In situations like this, Creation can consider 
raising a chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
Ms B has said she accepts what our investigator says about the technicalities of chargeback 
and section 75 and how that impacts her complaint. So rather than go over everything again 
in great detail, I will summarise what I think. 
Section 75 makes Creation jointly liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier (under certain conditions). It doesnt seem to be in dispute the flights went ahead, 
and Ms B didnt cancel the booking. Seeing as the flights went ahead, I cant see there was 
a breach of contract. Weve also not been told the supplier misrepresented anything. So I 
dont find there would be grounds for a successful section 75 claim even if Creation did 
consider it. There were also potential issues with the necessary relationships to exist for a 
valid claim to be considered. Overall, I dont think Creation acted unfairly by not pursuing the 
claim under section 75. 
Ive also thought about whether Creation could have done more under chargeback. The 
process is subject to rules made by the relevant card schemes. Its not a guaranteed way of 
getting a refund. There are time limits and chargeback reason codes codes to consider. 
And Id only expect chargebacks to be raised by the firm where theres a reasonable prospect of success. The problem here, for similar reasons to what Ive said above is that I 
dont think there was an appropriate chargeback reason code that wouldve applied here and 
that wouldve had a reasonable prospect of success. Ms B didnt cancel the services. The 
supplier didnt fail to provide the service. And Ms B wasnt contractually due a refund that 
hasnt been processed. So I dont think Creation acted unfairly by not pursuing the 
chargeback further. 
However, the crux of the complaint really seems to be about the information Ms B was given 
when she spoke to Creation before the flights were due to depart. Unfortunately, Creation 
hasnt been able to give us a copy of the call recording. And the accounts of what was said 
are slightly conflicting. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Creation initially advised Ms B to 
cancel the flights. Its notes say this, and Ms B agrees. But its not clear what was spoken 
about on the subsequent call. 
On the one hand, Ms B says she was reassured Creation would be able to take the case up 
with the airline and that, fingers crossed, shed receive all her money back. Ms B has also 
provided a copy of her handwritten notes for the second call indicating she should pass the 
fly date and get the full amount back. But on the other hand, Creations notes indicate it told 
Ms B to get in contact with the supplier and continue with her dispute. 
For me, the key thing to consider is whether on the second call Creation told Ms B to 
continue trying to contact the supplier or whether it simply told her it she didnt need to do 
anything, and that Creation would take things on from there. Did Ms B lose out as a result of 
misinformation from Creation? Or did she lose out because she wasnt able to speak to the 
supplier? 
Given the date of the flights hadnt passed by 24 August 2020 I dont think Creation would 
have been in any sort of position to have said whether or not a claim would likely succeed 
without knowing more about the situation. It didnt know whether the flights were going 
ahead. And it didnt know what the terms of cancellation said. So it would be surprising for 
Creation to have indicated the claim would even likely be successful. But Im conscious the 
advisor she spoke to may have been a bit confused. They had to call Ms B back after initially 
telling her to cancel the flight.
Im never going to know exactly what was said on the call. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Creation didnt guarantee Ms B would get all her money 
back when she spoke to it on 24 August 2020. And it doesnt seem to be in dispute that 
Creation told Ms B not to cancel her flight. The call handler probably got some advice that 
cancelling the flights was not the correct way for Ms B to obtain a refund. It would seem 
unusual for the advisor to have told Ms B to not cancel the flights and simply wait to see 
what happened. What would happen if, as is the case, the flights went ahead? Thered be no 
grounds for a successful claim. 
Given Creations contemporaneous notes say it advised Ms B to speak to the supplier, while 
I know shell be disappointed, I think this is the most likely thing to have happened. This 
would also be in line with the Covid-19 best practice guidelines that had been set out by the 
card scheme operator for card issuers in April 2020. The guidance says card issuers should 
advise cardholders to discuss and resolve disputes with merchants. So I find Creations 
notes are most likely reflective of what was discussed. I of course can understand that Ms B 
was having great difficulty getting hold of the supplier. Shes provided evidence of some 
attempts she made to speak to it. But I cant hold Creation responsible for that. Further, even if I were to find that Ms B would likely have been able to reschedule her flights 
had it not been for Creations misinformation then Id have to consider shed have been 
required to pay fees in relation to doing that. The terms and conditions Ive seen (albeit from 
2019) say fees will be charges from between £45 and £60 per passenger, per flight. So even 
if Ms B did decide to change flights, she wouldve been required to pay between £180 and 
£240 in fees. 
Taking everything into account. I think Creation did initially misadvise Ms B. But I dont think 
the most likely thing to have happened next is that it told her to not do anything and that 
hopefully a claim would be successful. So, unlike our investigator, Im not intending to direct 
it to pay further compensation. 
I do, however, agree it couldve handled the claim better. It took quite some time to deal with 
things, and Ms B had to chase it up for responses. And as Ive set out above, it misadvised 
her too. Creation says it applied £100 to her account. And I broadly think this is fair in the 
circumstances. Im not intending to direct it to do more. 
Creation accepted the provisional decision, but Ms B didnt. She said, in summary:
She was disappointed that Id chosen to disregard the recommendations of our 
investigator.
She was surprised Id decided on the balance of probability that Creation didnt act in 
the way shed described. Her notes were a proper record of events and her 
recollection quite clear. 
She thought I was applying a level of hindsight in my analysis and that facts were 
more important. 
She has been failed by the organisation which exists to support customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Ms B is disappointed with my provisional decision. It wasnt a straight-
forward case. And I sympathise with the situation. But I think its important to note that 
Creation isnt the supplier here. And I cant hold Creation responsible for everything the 
supplier did. I need to think about how Creation handled things taking into account its 
specific obligations as a provider of financial services. 
Im required to remain impartial and resolve disputes quickly and with minimum formality. 
Sometimes, where theres a lack of evidence, or the evidence is conflicting I have to reach 
my decision on the balance of probability. To my mind, I thought Creations offer of 
compensation was broadly fair for the way it handled the claim. If I were to uphold the 
complaint, I would have directed it to reimburse Ms B with the cost of the tickets, less the 
fees shed have likely had to pay to change the flights, rather than direct it to pay further 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. But Id have liked a bit more certainty to have 
decided that the loss was directly flowing from something it had said. 
I can understand Ms B would have been disappointed the supplier didnt respond to her 
contact. And this is why I asked if she had evidence shed done what was required under the 
contract to change the flights. Because if there was evidence the supplier had breached the 
contract in that way, then Creation would have been jointly liable. It doesnt look like Ms B 
did try to change the flights in line with the directions of the contract. But Im sympathetic 
because it also looks like the supplier didnt do what it should have done in response to her 
asking for help. But I dont think thats enough to demonstrate there was a breach of contract  which is what Creation would jointly be responsible for.
Ms Bs evidence has been credible. And its disappointing Creation was unable to supply the 
most relevant phone call. But unlike the courts, the Financial Ombudsman is an informal 
resolution service, and Im unable to compel witnesses or take sworn evidence from the call 
handler. So I have to base my decision on whats available. Ms B herself didnt say she was 
told the refund would be guaranteed. Her notes dont explicitly say she should do nothing. 
Her initial notes from 11 August 2020 say she should contact the supplier first. And the notes 
of the 18 August 2020 dont specifically say there was no need to speak to the supplier and 
shed definitely be refunded. I appreciate Ms B has said her recollection was quite clear and 
that I need to look at the facts. But I do also have to balance out what shes said with 
Creations notes that specifically say it told her to contact the supplier. 
Ms B may wish to contact the supplier direct with the evidence shes submitted to our service 
to ask for help, if shes not done so already. And of course, shes also free to pursue the 
complaint by other means, such as through the courts. However, while I know shell be 
naturally disappointed, I dont find I have the grounds to direct Creation to reimburse her for 
losses.    
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited has done enough to put things 
right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman