DRN-4060146
The complaint
Miss M complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) applied when she returned a car after her hire agreement ended.
What happened
Miss M entered into a three-year hire agreement in September 2019. Miss M says shes 
unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied when she returned the car. 
Miss M told us:
Arrangements were made for the car to be collected on 30 September 2022, but she 
received a telephone call to say the collection agent was running late. In the end it 
didnt collect the car until 6:30pm;
the collection agent wouldnt photograph or inspect the car at her house because of 
the time, the weather and the fact it was now dark (something that Miss M disputes);
she took photos of the car for her own records, and the agent said the car would be 
inspected the following morning and a full report would be sent to her. Miss M says 
she did not receive a report;
some time later, MBFS sent an invoice for vehicle damage totalling £960.00, and 
after she complained about this, the invoice was reduced to £700;
the disputed damage must have occurred while the collection agent was transporting 
the vehicle.
MBFS partially upheld this complaint. It said the car was collected by an independent third 
party and taken to a site for a detailed inspection. It said this inspection identified some 
damage requiring repairs totalling £960. MBFS said it had reviewed the charges and agreed 
to remove the charge in connection with the rear bumper because although damaged, it 
didnt have sufficient evidence to substantiate this. It removed the charge of £260 for the 
damaged bumper from the invoice.
MBFS said that an inspection wasnt carried out at Miss Ms house because the collection 
agent had only been asked to collect the car, not inspect it. And because of the time of day, 
the agent wasnt able to query these instructions with their office. It acknowledged that the 
service provided by its collection agent had not been as good as it shouldve been and it 
reduced Miss Ms invoice by a further £50 in recognition of this.
MBFS told us its Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) document detailed the expected return 
condition of Miss Ms car, and it said this had been provided to Miss M at the start of her 
agreement. And it said Miss M had had ample opportunity to familiarise herself with its fair 
wear and tear expectations and this provided her with the opportunity to have any repairs 
carried out prior to any inspection.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards and its pricing matrix. It 
said all four wheel rims were damaged, and the right hand rear door was damaged in 
several places. It said it was satisfied that the damage to the edge of the door had taken 
place over a period of time and couldnt, therefore, have happened during transit. And it 
confirmed that it was owed £650.00 by Miss M. 
Miss M disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the general standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the 
British Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide 
whether the charges applied by MBFS were fair and reasonable.
He said hed looked at the evidence submitted by MBFS to support its position and assessed 
this against both MBFS VRS document and the wider industry guidelines, and he thought 
the damage was visible and outside the fair wear and tear guidance and, as a result, was 
chargeable.
Miss M disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Miss M, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out that an assessment will be made in 
line with the VRS and it sets out what the acceptable conditions are, with examples, and 
what conditions are unacceptable. It goes on to explain that the customer will have to pay 
the costs of either repairing or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale of it. Ive read this carefully, and Im satisfied that Miss M was 
responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is whether all the 
charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies a number of areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable 
- outside fair wear and tear:
1. Left hand front  rim  damaged over 50mm £110.00
2. Right hand front  rim damaged over 50mm £110.00
3. Left hand rear  rim  damaged over 50mm £110.00
4. Right hand rear  rim  damaged over 50mm £110.00
5. Door  right hand rear  dented with paint damage £260.00
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS VRS when deciding what is fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge 
Miss M.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. Ive looked 
carefully at what it says in regard to the areas identified by MBFS. It says:
Wheels  Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. Scuffs up to 
50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the alloy wheel 
is not acceptable.
Paintwork  Chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they are not 
rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge and eight 
chips on any forward-facing panel is permitted. Dents of 15mm or less in diameter 
are acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface 
is not broken.
So, Im satisfied that the areas identified by MBFS as faulty or damaged or modified are 
indeed beyond what is recognised as fair wear and tear according to the published industry 
standards.
Ive also considered the VRS that were in place at the time Miss M signed her hire 
agreement in September 2019. These say:
Wheels and Tyres  Scuffs, chips and scratches exceeding 25mm are not 
acceptable.
Door  Body & Paint  Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated 
the base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out.
Finally, Ive looked very carefully at the evidence that MBFS provided, and Im satisfied that 
the areas of damage identified are indeed damaged outside fair wear and tear. I can see that 
the rims of each of the four wheels are heavily scuffed in multiple places on each wheel. And 
there is clearly damage to the door edge that exceeds both the standards in the VRS and 
the BVRLA industry guidelines. So, I think the charges have been applied fairly.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Miss M to pay were 
applied fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that MBFS has acted fairly in 
respect of the charges it applied.
Ive considered Miss Ms inference that some of this unrelated damage took place after the 
vehicle was collected from her home, but I just dont think this is likely. I say this because 
MBFS appointed an independent third party, one that is recognised in the industry, to 
conduct an assessment. It's also worth noting that the inspection report identified damage  
chips and scratches  on a number of other panels on the car, but MBFS didnt make a 
charge for this as the damage didnt exceed its own VRS. And although Miss M says that 
when the car was collected, none of the damage to the door was present, I think its more 
likely than not that the nature of the identified damage wouldnt have been apparent until the 
car was thoroughly examined later.
Finally, Ive noted Miss Ms comments about the collection agent. But I have to tell Miss M 
that this wasnt the collection agents role. Their role was to collect the vehicle and then 
document any damage. It was for MBFS to determine the level of charges and to provide 
Miss M with an invoice once it had assessed the independent report. I can see that MBFS 
reduced the invoice by £50 because of the poor customer service provided by the agent, and 
I think this is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman