DRN-2225845
The complaint
Mrs R complains that a car she obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit, was misrepresented to her. She wants the car to be 
fitted with a rear-view camera, electric seats and ambient lighting, and she wants the £150 
voucher that was advertised for the sales event she attended.
What happened
Mrs R recived a marketing leaflet advertising a Man from the Factory event at her local 
garage. Her and her husband attended the event and placed an order for a new car. Mrs R 
says she told the garage she wanted the car to have the same specifications as her existing 
car, which she part-exchanged. She says that, having decided on a car, she realised it didnt 
have a tailgate release or ambient lighting. But she decided this wasnt important to her. She 
then realised there were no heated seats, which was important to her. And she says the 
garage located another car for her. She says she understood all the other specifications to 
be the same.
After she collected the car, she realised there was no rear-view parking camera and the 
seats werent electric. The supplying garage said it would fit a rear-view camera, but this 
hasnt happened. And she hasnt received the £150 voucher promoted in the advertising 
leaflet.
Ford Credit said there wasnt enough evidence to suggest the car had been mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that a breach of contract had occurred. She said this because she didnt think a 
misrepresentation was made that led to Mrs R entering into the credit agreement. And she 
didnt think the car had been mis-described. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
The supplying garage should have told her it didnt have a car that matched her 
requirements. Her and her husband repeatedly said they wanted a car with the same 
specifications as their existing car.
The supplying garage said the paperwork was just a formality. Mrs R didnt read it and 
she wasnt given a copy.
Every time shes bought a car, she always got top of the range cars and she always 
upgraded from her current model. She wouldnt have worried about paying more for the 
car or paying for additional extras.
She wouldnt have driven the car away if shed realised it didnt have a rear-view camera. 
She contacted the supplying garage as soon as she realised it was missing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mrs R. If it was, and if I thought Mrs R would not have proceeded with the 
deal if shed been aware of the true facts, then I would think Ford Credit was responsible and 
Id ask it to take some further action.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, but Im unable to conclude that the car was misrepresented to 
her for the following reasons.
Mrs R received the car that she ordered, as detailed in the vehicle order form  which 
Mrs R signed  and the invoice. I appreciate there is often a lot of paperwork to sign 
when buying a new car. And I wouldnt reasonably expect Mr R to have read the detail of 
everything that she was required to sign. But I would reasonably have expected her to 
check the order form and invoice to make sure that the car she was ordering had the 
features that were so important to her.
The Man from the factory event was a promotion for the supplying garage to sell new 
cars that it had in stock. The discounts that were advertised werent available on factory 
ordered cars. So customers could only buy the cars that were available. This meant all of 
the additional features and colour choices wouldnt have been available  which is why 
the attractive discounts could be offered.
During the sales discussion, Mrs R realised the car she was about to order didnt have 
two of the features that shed enjoyed in her existing car  a tailgate release and ambient 
lighting. But she decided these werent important to her. So she must reasonably have 
realised that the car wasnt to the same specifications as her existing car.
She told the supplying garage that she particularly wanted heated seats. The supplying 
garage was able to source a car in stock which included the optional extra of a winter 
pack which included heated seats. 
So it seems to me that the discussion did include those items that were important to 
Mrs R. If the salesperson had promised her a like for like car, but then it became clear 
that certain features werent going to be included in the new car, I would have thought 
Mrs R would reasonably have checked the exact features of the car she was ordering. 
Particularly bearing in mind the relatively high cost of the car. So, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that the supplying garage promised her a like for like car. 
Mrs R chose not to check the car or take if for a test drive before she drove it away. 
I dont doubt that she was disappointed when she discovered the car didnt include a 
rear-view camera. She contacted the garage as soon as she realised. But as that wasnt 
a feature of the car shed ordered  she would have had to have purchased a 
technology pack  I cant say the supplying garage mis-led her. And it follows that 
I cant ask Ford Credit to fit one. Or to provide her with a car with the features she wants 
under the existing finance terms.
Mrs R says she didnt receive the £150 advertised voucher. But I agree with our investigator 
that the supplying garage gave Mrs R additional discounts on the total cost of the car and that its more likely than not that she received these discounts in place of the advertised 
voucher.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman