DRN-3552409
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr and Mrs V, directors of T, have brought the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It operates a pub.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 T closed 
its pub on 20 March 2020. 
T claimed on the policy. Mrs V said there had been a customer at the premises just before it 
was required to close who was later found to have most likely been infected with Covid-19 at 
the time of their visit.
RSA declined the claim. It said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a 
result of a notifiable disease manifesting itself at the premises, T hadnt shown that Covid-19 
was manifesting itself at the premises before Government restrictions came into force.
Mr and Mrs V brought Ts complaint to our service. They referred to the Supreme Court 
judgment on the Financial Conducts Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case. 
They thought it should be sufficient that somebody most likely infected with Covid-19 had 
been on Ts premises just before T had to close regardless of whether that person had 
symptoms of or been diagnosed with Covid-19. 
Our Investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He said 
there was nothing to suggest that T had closed its business due to a case of Covid-19 
manifesting itself at the premises. 
T asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ts business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ts claim.
The most relevant part of Ts policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely T closed its business because there was 
a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at its premises. For a case to have manifested itself, I 
think someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or have displayed 
symptoms, which on the balance of probabilities were most likely Covid-19. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
T has provided evidence to support the fact that a customer was on the premises on the day 
it closed its business (20 March 2020). The customer developed symptoms of Covid-19 a 
day or so later and in June 2020 a test confirmed that theyd had Covid-19. I have no reason 
to doubt that this was the case. But T hasnt provided any evidence that the customer had 
symptoms whilst at the premises. And they hadnt been tested at that point. So I dont think I 
can fairly say that its most likely there was a case manifesting itself at Ts premises before it 
closed because at that stage the customer wasnt showing any symptoms and there was no 
indication that they had Covid-19 until later. 
So, I dont consider the requirements of the relevant part of the policy to have been met. I 
appreciate my decision will be disappointing to T. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ts claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman