DRN-2547603
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Pi Financial Ltd (trading as Money Foundations) gave him 
negligent advice to switch from his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to another SIPP. 
The advice facilitated investment into a high-risk product - the Optima Worldwide Group 
(OWG) bond. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Legal Partnership (LP) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd, trading as Money Foundations (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  stockbroker
Horizon Stockbrocking (HS)  discretionary investment manager
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Mr M was advised by another financial adviser (DM) to switch his pension to a SIPP in order 
to release some tax-free cash. He says after the drawdown DM advised him about better 
investments for his remaining funds and introduced him to an individual connected to OWG 
Investments Ltd who also worked for LP. He was then told this needed to be arranged 
through an independent adviser and he was subsequently introduced to Pi.
Theres a letter from Mr M to Pi dated 10 February 2014 which said:
I would like to transfer my existing Self Invested Pension Plans.into a new Self Invested 
Personal Pension Plan, in order to allow me a to access a wider range of investment with a 
lower charging structure. Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and 
arrange the transfer accordingly. Please note that  have a separate investment adviser who 
will be arranging the investments to be held within the SIPP and therefore I do not require 
any advice from you concerning this or the suitability of a SIPP platform.
The adviser replied by letter dated 12 February 2014 which said:
Thank you for your letter of 10th February 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your 
current Self Invested Pension Plans into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). I 
confirm I am happy to complete your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of 
the market to find the most appropriate SIPP for your requirements.

I will have no input into the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this and therefore will only be responsible for arranging and 
transferring your funds into the SIPP.
On 18 February 2014, various documents were completed and signed. This included: 
a Client Agreement
a SIPP application form
a fact find 
a Knowledge and experience assessment which showed Mr M didnt really have any 
investment experience other than having a pension which he had received advice on.
Pi recommended a new SIPP with JH for Mr M and he switched his pension from his existing 
SIPP -which had only been recently established- to JH. Funds of £150,000 were 
subsequently invested through Strand into OWG bonds. 
Strand went into liquidation in 2017 and the OWG bonds have since been given a nil value 
by JH.
Mr M made a complaint to Pi in 2019 about the advice he received from them which they 
rejected.  One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it should 
be upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Mr M had been suitable and Pi should 
compensate Mr M for his losses.
Pi disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. I also considered their 
submissions on similar complaints. However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to 
be the key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of this complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr M instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Mr M with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited 
nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable.
Pi didnt provide Mr M with advice to switch his SIPP or on the investment in OWG. 
Mr M had already decided what he wanted to do before he approached Pi. 
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Strand and HS who 
were also regulated firms. They are responsible for Mr Ms losses and not Pi who 
only played a very limited role here. 
DM who was also a regulated adviser was the one giving Mr M the original advice to 
invest in OWG, so the firm he was working for at the time should be held responsible 
for this advice.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr M investment advice including a personal recommendation?If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr M would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr M did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr M with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr M. This is also clearly evidenced in the recommendation letter where 
advice and recommendation are mentioned throughout, and it says JH will offer the most 
suitable contract given [Mr Ms] stated objectives.
Im satisfied that recommending a suitable SIPP provider can be considered to be advising 
under Article 53 RAO. Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a 
personal recommendation to Mr M when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations 
in COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. Mr 
M had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch between SIPPs 
or where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Ms objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Ms recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was to choose his 
own investments which may include direct investment in shares. Pi was aware that more 
specifically he intended to invest through Strand and HS because they said they had 
conducted due diligence on the firms. Theres no evidence in this particular case whether Pi 
knew Mr M was intending to invest in OWG, however even if they didnt, in order to give 
suitable advice they needed to obtain this information.
I consider the risks of Mr M transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr M wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr M was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Ms wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
From the knowledge and experience assessment it was clear Mr M didnt really have any 
investment experience, so they should have queried what product Mr M wanted to invest in 
that couldnt be catered for in his existing SIPP -which at this point was recorded to be 
invested solely in cash. 
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP inthe abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser 
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi says Strand 
would have given Mr M advice on his investments. However, Mr M opened an account with 
Strand on an execution-only basis and I cant see any evidence that they were intending to 
provide Mr M with investment advice.
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP, Pi needed to consider Mr Ms 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch between 
SIPPs, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the underlying 
investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr M to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. Pi and Mr M were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi to consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Ms intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr M.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Ms case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr M on the suitability of the James Hay SIPP, Pi 
had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension switch 
and where Mr M intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr M with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr M was 57, self-employed and beyond his pension had no other investment experience. 
The OWG bond was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are 
not regulated. The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us on another complaint) 
confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections 
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors 
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Mr M completed that he didnt have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which 
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of his retirement funds. Pi 
have also confirmed to this service previously that they consider the OWG bond to be 
unsuitable for retail investors, so I dont think its really in dispute that Mr Ms intended 
investment was unsuitable for him.Given Mr Ms lack of investment experience, Im also not persuaded he was a credible self-
investor. I cant see any persuasive reasons why Mr M needed to change his pension at all, 
given that he had a SIPP which would have given him plenty of options to invest. 
Pi knew - or ought to have known - that the intended investment into OWG was too high risk 
and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Mr Ms circumstances. Despite this, they 
recommended a SIPP to facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr M. They should have 
explained that his intended investment was too high risk and that given this was a significant 
proportion of his retirement provisions, he couldnt financially bear the risks with his 
retirement funds. 
In my view, Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the 
SIPP which facilitated an investment which was clearly not suitable for him. They didnt pay 
due regard to Mr Ms interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their 
personal recommendation was suitable for Mr M as per their regulatory obligations. 
Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr M were fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Mr M have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Mr M would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what Pi 
told him. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume 
that Mr M was given this brochure - which is something I dont know - he might have been 
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that LP might have 
influenced Mr M in the background and could have persuaded him to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
recommending him not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any 
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Mr 
M had no real investment experience so Im not convinced he would have been able to 
properly understand the risks he was taking with his entire pension here. 
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mr Ms overall 
financial position. He didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, which 
was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, as a 
regulated adviser and independent third party, had clearly explained they couldnt 
recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his circumstances, 
the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his pension in this 
way, I think he would have decided not to proceed.
Given that Pi should have been aware that there was a risk Mr M was being influenced by 
LP and potentially not given full and clear information about what he was about to do, they 
should have established what he had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
Im not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr M was so strongly motivated to make the 
transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert 
advice. I think if Pi had been given him clear information about how risky the OWG 
investment was and that he could lose a significant amount of money, he would have 
listened.
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr M would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommendedagainst the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for him. I think, on balance, 
Mr M would have remained in his existing SIPP and invested his money there.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on 
Strand/HS providing a suitable recommendation for Mr M. 
The account Mr M had with Strand was execution-only. So they werent intending to give Mr 
M any advice. 
I also dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm (F1) 
receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity on 
behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and Stand/HS were F2. However, 
Pi didnt receive any instructions here from these parties. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr M would be invested in. If they had done so, they 
would have known his intended investment in OWG was high risk and unsuitable for him.
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on 
Strand/HS providing Mr M with a suitable investment, when they knew or ought to have 
known he was about to invest into an unsuitable product.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr M unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr M more 
likely than not would have remained in his existing SIPP. Having considered all the evidence 
and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mr M for any losses he suffered by 
transferring into the JH SIPP and investing into OWG.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Ms knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investment was evidently unsuitable for Mr M.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the 
decision, I think Mr M wouldnt have been in the JH SIPP or OWG bond investment at all if Pi 
had met their obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt have 
suffered the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr M suffered from the 
high-risk investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
I also considered DMs involvement here who was working for a regulated firm as well as for 
LP. Pis records show DW introduced Mr M to Pi in his capacity of being a representative of 
LP. Based on Mr Ms testimony it was DM who introduced the idea of OWG to him. So its 
possible that DM gave Mr M unsuitable advice without which Mr M might never have been 
introduced to Pi. So I can see Pis argument that DW might hold responsibility here too.
However, I can only consider the complaint in front of me which is against Pi. And as 
explained above, Pi could have prevented Mr Ms losses by giving him suitable advice, notwithstanding what had happened previously. So I think its fair Pi compensate him for his 
losses in full. If Pi consider that other parties actions have contributed to these losses, they 
are free to pursue this directly with them.
OWG might distribute funds to customers at some point, however its unclear if and when 
this will happen. So in the circumstances I think its fair for Pi to compensate Mr M now. Ive 
included ways to ensure Mr M is not overcompensated in the redress below. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Ms losses my aim is to put him as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Mr M would more likely than not have stayed in 
his existing SIPP and would have invested differently. Its not possible to say what precisely 
he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr Ms circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr M £ £300 to compensate him for the worry and concern he would have felt 
when he realised he possibly lost all his retirement funds.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
JH SIPPStill 
exists, 
but 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
I understand Mr Ms OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market. This means it can be complicated to establish its value. JH has already 
given it a nil value. Pi should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value for the OWG investments 
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Mr 
M provides an undertaking to pay Pi any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
Mr M has received a compensation payment of £2,366.97 into his SIPP from the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) after the liquidation of Strand. This was to 
account for a remaining cash amount which was held by them.  This payment will be 
included in the actual value, so no further adjustment is needed to account for this.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Pi should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. 
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to
compensate Mr M as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000 (plus interest if paid after
28 days after Mr M accepted this decision).
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated 
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Pi Financial Ltd doesnt have
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court toask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to
accept this decision.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman