DRN-3661478
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP, trading 
as Portal Financial, (Portal) to switch the benefits she held in two defined contribution 
personal pensions (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mrs C says she was introduced to Portal by a company that was providing her with mortgage 
advice. The authority form Ive seen indicates this happened around July 2012.
Portal completed a fact find in January 2013. This noted that Mrs C was 44 and co-habiting 
with her partner. She was listed as being unemployed but was receiving an income of 
£1,700 per month from maintenance payments. She owned her own home, with an 
estimated value of £436,000 but also had an outstanding interest only mortgage in the 
region of £215,000. The fact find also indicated Mrs C had savings and assets of £33,000  
but this figure was not broken down. It also made reference to some assets being held in an 
offset mortgage, although the explanation around this wasnt entirely clear. Mrs C had a 
defined benefit pension from a period of previous employment but the fact find said she 
wasnt interested in moving that pension. It went on to say that Mrs C wanted to achieve 
better investment performance  in particular growth  and that she liked alternative 
investments. 
A risk profiling questionnaire was also completed. Based on this Portal said Mrs C had a 
moderately adventurous attitude to risk (ATR).
In March 2013, Portal recommended that Mrs C transfer her two personal pensions to a 
SIPP and invest the majority of the value into a series of unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCIS). No action was taken following this recommendation and the pensions 
benefits were not switched at that time.
In January 2014, Portal carried out another fact find with Mrs C. Her circumstances were 
listed as largely being the same although her house had increased in value to £500,000 and 
her mortgage was listed as having reduced to £170,000. The fact find again confirmed that 
Portal was only looking at the defined contribution pensions and said Mrs C wanted to 
improve average yearly growth and increase her range of investment choices as she 
preferred a medium risk spread of investments. A further risk profiling questionnaire was 
completed with some of the answers significantly different to the year prior. And as a result, 
Portal said it considered Mrs Cs ATR to be adventurous.
In February 2014, Portal sent Mrs C another suitability report, summarizing its 
recommendation. It said that this superseded its previous advice. The report noted Mrs C 
had a two PPs. One had a value of approximately £8,810 and was performing at 2.1% per 
annum on average (based on a 5-year average). The second had a value of £6,348 and was 
performing at 4.78% per annum on average (based on a 5-year average).
Portal summarized Mrs Cs objectives as future drawdown, investment choice, improved 
performance and specific investment. It went on to recommend that she transfer her two 
PPs to a SIPP. Portal said the recommendation would meet her stated objectives, it had 
determined she had sufficient capacity for loss for the recommendation made and it said it 
had recommended a portfolio that would meet Mrs Cs ATR.
The suitability report included a summary of how Portal recommended that the transferred 
funds be invested. Some of the investments it recommended were:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC  11.87%
Marbella  Resort and Spa PLC  11.17%
Real Estate Investments USA PLC  11.87%
Motion Picture Global Investments PLC 11.17%
Stategic Residential Developments PLC  11.87%
Tambaba Developments PLC  11.17%
20.6% of the remainder was allocated to regulated investment funds and the remaining 
10.28% to cash.
The SIPP was established, and the funds invested in line with the advice given, at the end of 
March 2014.
In April 2020, Mrs C complained to Portal. She said her attitude to risk, capacity for loss and 
investment experience hadnt been accurately recorded or discussed in person. And the 
majority of the investments Portal had recommended had a significantly higher risk than she 
was aware of or wouldve accepted, had this been made clear.
In response, Portal said Mrs C had made her complaint too late for our service to consider it. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Another ombudsman considered the 
matter of whether we have jurisdiction to look into the complaint. They decided the complaint 
had been made in time, so we can consider it.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Cs complaint and said he felt the complaint should 
be upheld. He said he felt there was significant doubt over the accuracy of the assessment 
of Mrs Cs attitude to risk. And he felt the information available indicated she had little 
capacity for loss. And given this and her overall general inexperience when it came to 
investing, he felt the recommendation that over 69% of her portfolio be placed in unregulated 
investments was unsuitable. So, he thought Portal should compensate Mrs C as if her funds 
had been invested more appropriately and pay her £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Portal didnt agree. In summary, it said the SIPP was recommended as it met Mrs Cs key 
needs in several ways. It said the annual SIPP wrapper charge was cheaper than her 
existing arrangements and that it was low cost and stakeholder friendly and that Mrs Cs 
pension could be invested in mainstream funds within it. It said the switch allowed Mrs C the 
option of flexibly drawing funds when required. And it said its adviser felt the performance of 
Mrs Cs existing funds could be improved upon by transferring.
Our Investigator was not minded to change their opinion. As a result, the complaint was 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
As I mentioned, Portal previously said Mrs Cs complaint was brought to our Service too late 
for us to consider it. I dont intend to revisit that, given an ombudsman has already given a 
decision explaining why they were satisfied Mrs C brought this complaint in time, other than 
to say having reviewed the available information I agree with the decision reached by the previous ombudsman. So, as Im satisfied we can look into this complaint, Ive considered all 
the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be good industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure a personal recommendation was suitable for Mrs C. It had 
to obtain information as to Mrs Cs knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment), her financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mrs C to ensure the 
recommendation met her objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and that she had 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client."
As Ive mentioned, Portal has provided copies of two separate risk profile questionnaires it 
says were completed with Mrs C. But Mrs C says her attitude to risk wasnt accurately 
recorded or discussed. Mrs C hasnt signed either of the documents to say she agreed with 
the answers. So, I cant know for certain how the information was obtained. But on balance I 
think it was likely at least based on information provided by Mrs C.
The questionnaires have the same questions. But the answers, given one year apart, had 
some quite significant differences. In the 2013 questionnaire Mrs C agreed with the 
statement that people who knew her would describe her as cautious. But in January 2014 
she apparently disagreed with that statement. Likewise, in 2013 Mrs C disagreed with the 
statement she felt comfortable investing in the stock market, but the following year agreed 
she did feel comfortable. And in 2013 Mrs C agreed she was concerned about the volatility 
of stock markets, only to disagree one year later.
But despite these rather stark differences in answers, Portal hasnt provided any additional 
notes relating to this. I appreciate that attitudes to risk can change over time. But given the 
proximity of the two questionnaires being carried out and the fact that Mrs Cs personal 
circumstances didnt appear to have changed very much at all in the intervening period, Id 
have expected to see some commentary on this  particularly in the suitability report, from 
Portal.
Even without this though, I still think there is reason to question the classification of Mrs C as 
having an adventurous ATR. In both versions of the questionnaire the statement I am willing 
to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns was put to Mrs C. And on both 
occasions she disagreed with this statement. 
In addition, Mrs C answered consistently across both questionnaires that she had little 
experience investing in stocks and shares. Portals own explanation of what an adventurous 
investor would typically be like said;
Adventurous investors typically have high levels of financial knowledge and keep up to date 
on financial issues. They will usually be experienced investors, who have used a range of 
investment products in the past, and who may take an active approach to managing their investments.
In general, Adventurous investors are happy to take on investment risk and understand that 
this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are willing to take risk with most 
of their available assets.
So, Mrs Cs answers dont seem to fit Portals own profile. And she has said she was an 
inexperienced investor with limited knowledge of investments. And Ive seen nothing to 
dispute that in the information Ive been provided. So, I think this calls into question whether 
Mrs C was in fact adventurous as Portal claims. At best I think, her attitude to risk was more 
likely to be balanced. And, based on her lack of experience and capacity for loss, which Ill 
discuss in more detail shortly, I think she was in fact likely to be more cautious still.
But even if Mrs C did have a more adventurous attitude to risk, I still dont think that means 
that the recommendation Portal made was suitable.
Portals suitability report says it had assessed that Mrs C had sufficient capacity for loss for 
the investments it recommended. But I dont agree. The purpose of a pension is to provide 
for the holders retirement. Mrs C did have a DB scheme pension, separate to the two PPs 
transferred. But the transfer value of that appears to have been around £37,000. Meaning 
the PPs still accounted for over a quarter of her private pension arrangements. And Mrs C 
was not working  which the fact finds indicated was the case for over a year. So, it doesnt 
seem that she was contributing to or increasing her pension provisions. All of this means I 
think the PPs were an important part of her financial provisions for retirement. And while she 
did have some other assets  such as some savings  she also had ongoing liabilities  the 
interest only mortgage. So, I think significant losses to her PPs would have had a sizeable 
adverse impact on Mrs Cs retirement provisions. And I dont therefore think she had much 
capacity for loss in respect of these policies.
To recap, Portal recommended that Mrs C invest almost 70% of her pension into six secured 
bonds. These bonds were high risk. I say this because the suitability report refers to funds 
from the bonds financing, and being secured on, the building of new holiday villas, the 
completion of a new hotel, rights to films not yet made and plots of land with development 
potential. So, the underlying assets werent known quantities that were already generating a 
predictable income stream but were rather more speculative in nature. Most of the bonds 
related to investment overseas. The suitability report said money was lent and paid back in 
sterling so there was no direct currency risk. But they still wouldve carried some exchange 
rate risk as the funding dealt with overseas assets. And they were largely illiquid, something 
the suitability report pointed out. A lot can go wrong with this type of investment and the 
potential for significant losses is far higher than would be the case for pooled funds investing 
in a wide range of quoted securities. This is the case even if (as Portal says) due diligence 
had been done on the bonds.
While these bonds may not have strictly been UCIS products I still think the regulators 2010 
UCIS findings are relevant here. And I say that because the bonds share many of the same 
characteristics as the investment schemes the regulator was warning about: illiquidity, 
foreign currency risk and valuation difficulties for instance.  The regulator said that as well as 
UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high net 
worth investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision.
As Ive said, I dont think Mrs C was an experienced investor. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
she had made any independent investment decisions in respect of her existing pensions. 
And she said in the fact finds carried out that she didnt have any experience with stocks and shares. So, I dont think she was a sophisticated investor. Nor in my view, going by the 
details recorded in the fact find, could it be said she was a high net worth investor. So, Id 
argue it wasnt appropriate for this type of product to be promoted to her at all. And certainly 
I dont think the advice to invest in the proportion Portal recommended was suitable, given 
theres nothing to indicate she had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or 
understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think the recommendation made by Portal was 
suitable.
Portal says that the SIPP was low cost and stakeholder friendly, it allowed flexibility in the 
future, Mrs C had the option of investing in mainstream products and it felt the performance 
of the existing funds could be improved on. But I dont think any of these things mean that 
the advice given was suitable.
The annual management charge (AMC) by the SIPP provider was 0.5%. And this seems to 
be lower than the AMCs of the existing PP providers  1% and 1.08%. But Portal charged 
an upfront fee of 5% of the pension fund value for its advice. And an ongoing fee of 1% per 
year, on top of the AMC, for providing ongoing advice. So, the overall cost to Mrs C was 
greater than that of her existing pensions.
While the SIPP mayve given Mrs C additional flexibility in terms of how she could eventually 
take her benefits, given she was only 45 at the time of the advice, I dont think she needed 
that flexibility at the time.
And while the SIPP mayve allowed Mrs C to invest differently, Portal advised her to invest in 
the unregulated bonds Ive mentioned. And Mrs C relied on and acted on that advice. There 
mayve been potential to improve on the growth the existing PPs were providing. And Mrs C 
mayve been seeking an improvement in growth. But for the reasons Ive already explained, 
that doesnt mean the advice given was appropriate or suitable for her. 
Instead, I think suitable advice would have been for Mrs C to invest in regulated mainstream 
funds. And if Portal had given suitable advice, I think Mrs Cs likely to have invested in that 
way.
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mrs C for the unsuitable advice 
is to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with her circumstances and 
attitude to risk.
Our Investigator also recommended that Portal pay Mrs C £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  as he felt it wouldve been particularly upsetting for Mrs C to find out 
that a significant portion of her fund was illiquid and that some of the bond providers had 
appointed administrators. Taking everything into account, I agree that this was likely to have 
been upsetting for Mrs C. And that upset would not have happened if the unsuitable advice 
had not been provided. So, in the circumstances, I think the award for distress and 
inconvenience recommended by our Investigator is fair.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs C should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs C's circumstances and objectives when she invested.What must Portal do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, Portal must compare the performance of Mrs C's investment 
with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mrs C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mrs C £500 for distress caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs C how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs C asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP 
recommended 
by PortalSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Portal 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mrs C provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted capital growth but I think based on her circumstances and the 
available information only with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs C into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs C would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs C could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP, trading as Portal 
Financial, should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP, trading as Portal Financial, should provide details of its 
calculation to Mrs C in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman