DRN-2832043
The complaint
Ms R complains about the level of service received from Aviva Insurance Limited following a 
claim against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R raised a separate complaint about Aviva. Ill only be considering the liability decision 
following the July 2019 claim, and the complaint points Ms R raised about customer service. 
In July 2019, Ms R was involved in an incident. She started in the right-hand lane of three 
lanes to take the third exit off a roundabout. And as she indicated and changed lanes to take 
the third exit, she said another driver had driven through a red light to her left-hand side and 
caused the incident. Ms R also said its possible the other driver was under the influence of 
alcohol. So, she raised a claim. 
Aviva presented what Ms R provided to the other drivers insurer. But the other drivers 
insurer disputed liability and said Ms R had changed lanes and collided with the other driver. 
Aviva also commented on Ms Rs version of events and said there was no evidence the 
other driver had driven through a red light or was under the influence of alcohol. They didnt 
think they had strong enough evidence to pursue liability, and so liability was accepted on 
Ms Rs behalf. 
Ms R disputed this. She did have a dashcam, but the footage couldnt be retrieved due to a 
fault. She also told Aviva shed spoken to the police who said CCTV could be requested. But 
CCTV was no longer available due to the time between the incident and Aviva requesting it. 
Aviva said the allegations Ms R made about who was at fault were her word against the 
other drivers. And there was no evidence to prove the other driver was fully responsible for 
the incident. They also said the damage sustained to both vehicles and that Ms R had 
changed lanes meant they didnt think they could dispute liability further. So, Ms R raised a 
complaint. 
She said the roundabout where the incident happened was controlled by traffic lights. And 
the police confirmed if her light was green, the other lights would have been red. Therefore, 
she said the only way the other driver could have been to the left of her, is if they drove 
through a red light. And aside from the liability decision, Ms R also complained about Avivas 
overall claims handling. She didnt think Aviva had acted professionally during calls, couldnt 
locate the incident location for some time despite her providing further evidence and they 
delayed requesting CCTV footage. 
Aviva responded in 2019. They agreed the claim could have been handled better and said 
the best possible outcome was for liability to be split  meaning both Ms R and the other 
driver would be partly responsible. So, they offered to treated Ms R as such and required her 
to pay 50% of her excess and offered to reimburse 50% of Ms Rs uninsured losses. They 
also offered to pay her £250 compensation for the service issues, and this was later 
increased to £400 after further dialogue between Ms R and Aviva. Ms R didnt accept this, 
she remained that the other driver was at fault for the accident. She also felt Aviva may have 
discriminated against her due to the way she was treated during the claim. So, she brought 
the complaint to this service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint. Whilst she felt Aviva could have handled 
things better, she was satisfied theyd acted fairly by putting matters right in the way they did. 
So, she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms R disagreed. She maintained the other driver should be held fully responsible for the 
incident. Ms R didnt agree and so the case is now with me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The liability dispute
Its important to explain we dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. I accept Ms R 
has said she would be prepared to attend court. But we can only look at whether Aviva has 
reached their decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. And the policy has a 
very common term Ive seen in most, if not all other motor insurance policies. This says 
Aviva can take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Ms Rs name. This might mean 
Aviva makes a decision Ms R doesnt agree with, but the policy allows them to do so. I dont 
disagree this term is unfair in principle, provided Aviva can show theyve treated Ms R fairly 
when applying it. 
Ive seen Aviva accepted liability on Ms Rs behalf. However, following their December 2019 
letter, they agreed to treat the liability as a 50/50  they said this was the best possible 
outcome for Ms R under the circumstances. Based on what Ive seen, on balance I think this 
is fair and reasonable, and Ill explain why. 
Ms R feels strongly about her view that the other driver was at fault. She alleged they drove 
through a red light, sped up her left-hand side and caused the incident. She also said its 
possible they were under the influence of alcohol.
Once the other drivers insurer disputed liability, I think it was reasonable at this stage for 
Aviva to consider all the evidence available, how strong it was and decide whether to pursue 
the matter further. Along with considering the strength of the evidence to prove the other 
driver was at fault, they would have also considered the prospects of success in court, and 
the potential costs and risks involved. 
Aviva said there were no witnesses that came forward at the time of the incident, or when 
Ms R appealed for witnesses. There was no CCTV available or dashcam footage to prove 
Ms Rs allegations. And the police didnt attend the incident at the time and so Ms Rs view 
that its possible the other driver was under the influence of alcohol couldnt be proven  nor 
that theyd driven through a red light. So, its due to the lack of supporting evidence that 
Aviva decided to accept liability on behalf of Ms R. Ive carefully considered this, and I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Aviva to reach the conclusion not to pursue liability in this case. 
What isnt in dispute from what Ive seen is that Ms R had changed lanes to exit the 
roundabout and a collision occurred. Aviva also considered the damage sustained to both 
vehicles and said its also possible the other driver was in front of Ms R at the point of 
impact. I appreciate Ms R disputed this. But, taking this into account and the fact that the 
other drivers insurer had disputed liability, I think it was fair for Aviva to consider that the 
evidence they held wasnt strong enough to pursue liability further.  Ms R argued the only way the other driver could have been on her left-hand side when the 
incident occurred is if they went through a red light. But Aviva maintained theres insufficient 
evidence to prove this. Avivas offered to reimburse 50% of any reasonable uninsured losses 
Ms R incurred and only required her to pay 50% of her excess. 
I accept Ms R remains that the other driver should be held at fault. I must explain my 
decision doesnt conclude that I consider her testimony to be untrue or incorrect. Rather, I 
think Aviva acted fairly by concluding there is a lack of supporting evidence to pursue 
liability. 
Ms R also felt the other driver had exaggerated the incident by making a personal injury 
claim. She said she asked the other driver if they were OK immediately after the incident, 
and they said they were fine. They were also walking around their vehicle and had no signs 
of injury. 
Ms R doesnt think the level of impact or damage sustained to both vehicles suggests that 
the other driver was injured. But the important point to note here is Aviva received a claim for 
personal injury from the other drivers insurer. I can see Ms Rs claim was passed to a 
different team within Aviva following this due to the personal injury claim being made, and it 
was reasonable for Aviva consider the evidence presented by the other drivers insurer. 
Claims handling 
Ms R raised complaint points about the way the claim was handled. For example, shes told 
us about the emotional impact of the delays in responding to her claim and how she was 
treated. Also, her belief that if Aviva would have contacted the police or council for CCTV 
sooner, it would have proved she wasnt at fault, and therefore the claim would have been 
resolved earlier. She thinks Aviva should pay her £10,000 to recognise this.  
To consider this, Ive carefully reviewed Ms Rs submissions and have listened to the calls 
between her and Aviva. And having done so, Im in agreement with her, I think things could 
have been handled better. Avivas accepted this also and paid Ms R £400 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms R considers a key piece of evidence (CCTV) wasnt requested soon enough by Aviva, as 
it was no longer available after it was requested. Aviva said they didnt think the CCTV 
footage likely would have changed the outcome of the liability decision. They said Ms R had 
changed lanes to take the exit off the roundabout and collided with the other driver. They 
said this would mean that as Ms R had changed lanes, it was her responsibility to ensure the 
lane was clear and safe to move into.
Whilst Aviva didnt think the CCTV would have changed the outcome on liability, they 
accepted they could have requested this sooner. But Ive also taken into account Ms R had 
said she had a dashcam. Aviva paid Ms R compensation for the delays in requesting the 
CCTV, but I think their view of whether this would have changed the liability decision is 
reasonable. 
Ive listened to the calls between Ms R and Aviva. Ms R said she was made to feel she was 
to blame for the incident and her testimony was untrue. Ms R also said she felt Aviva may 
have discriminated against her due to the way she was treated. 
I note there was some confusion on several calls about the location of where the incident 
occurred, and Ms R had to repeat herself despite having provided evidence to this effect. 
And there were further issues when Aviva appointed a third-party company to interview Ms R 
to understand her version of events. But Aviva failed to inform Ms R that the company would contact her directly. Ms R also said she was made to feel as though she was to blame for 
the incident and was being untruthful about her version of events. 
I absolutely agree things could have been handled a lot better. I want to assure Ms R that 
Ive taken her concerns very seriously. I cant comment on whether Ms R was discriminated 
against as its outside this services jurisdictional remit and only a court of law can make a 
finding like that. However, I can consider whether I think Aviva treated Ms R fairly and 
reasonably in how they handled her claim. In this instance, I agree one of the conversations 
she had with an Aviva representative in August 2019 wasnt handled well and the 
representative was unnecessarily rude to Ms R during the call. Aviva have acknowledged 
this and from what I can see feedback was provided to the specific member of staff, and 
Aviva have paid Ms R £400 compensation in recognition of the failings that occurred during 
this call  and the other service issues Ms R explained. And while I agree with Ms R that the 
way she was spoken to was inappropriate, I also think Avivas response to this, and the 
other service issues, has been reasonable. 
Summary 
Overall, I agree this has been a very difficult time for Ms R. Aviva caused her to experience 
distress and inconvenience  over and above whats reasonably expected following a claim 
where two conflicting versions of events have been presented. However, for the reasons 
given above, I think Avivas actions in attempting to put things right here are fair and 
reasonable. And so, I dont require Aviva to do anything further. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Ms R. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve her dispute with Aviva  can do for her. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman