DRN-3437087
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) unfairly requires him to 
repay lending for goods he says he didnt receive.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr M applied for lending, via a broker, to finance the acquisition of a car. 
He subsequently agreed to enter into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle on the 
understanding that the car would be supplied to him.
It seems that in August 2020 Mr M told Oodle that the cars supplier had registered it into 
somebody elses name, and he hadnt actually been given the car. Mr M said he intended to 
stop making payments.
Oodle investigated matters and issued a final response in February 2021. It said it had been 
told by the broker that Mr M had collected the car from the supplying dealer. It also 
referenced a call recording of Mr M, as well as text messages from him, which it thought 
showed that he was at the supplying dealer and ready to collect the car in December 2019.
It suggested that no party involved in the arrangement of the lending or supply of the car had 
heard from Mr M until August 2020. And it noted that Mr M had spoken to it about amending 
payment arrangements in February 2020 but hadnt mentioned that he hadnt received the 
car. Overall, it was persuaded that Mr M had been supplied with the car and didnt think that 
hed reasonably demonstrated otherwise.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He maintained that he hadnt been supplied with 
the car as he was meant to have been under the agreement he had with Oodle. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded by Mr Ms version of 
events, particularly as it seems Mr M wasnt forthcoming with information about what 
happened at the dealership when the car was meant to be supplied. 
He was, however, persuaded by evidence Oodle had provided; a call recording with a third 
party and the current registered keeper of the car, in which they say that Mr M gave them the 
car around the time it was supplied. 
Mr M disagreed. He made a number of detailed points about why he thought thered been a 
breach of his contract with Oodle  in summary, that the car had not been supplied to him 
nor registered in his name. 
Our investigator remained of the opinion that Oodle was acting fairly in asking Mr M to repay 
the lending. Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision on the case, so its been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains about Oodles conduct in relation to a hire purchase agreement. Its a 
regulated agreement and one which this service has the power to consider a complaint 
about. 
Mr M might find that Ive presented the events which led to this complaint in less detail than 
in his submissions to this service. Thats simply because my decision will focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point 
thats been made, but to set out my conclusions and the reasons Ive reached them. I can 
assure Mr M, however, that Ive carefully considered all of his submissions in full.
The agreement Mr M entered into with Oodle set out, broadly speaking, that hed be 
provided with a car for the duration of the agreement on the basis that he makes the 
required payments. Mr Ms complaint is centred on him not being provided with the goods 
detailed under his agreement. So, I need to decide whether theres been a breach of Mr Ms 
contract with Oodle.
From whats been said, I think its clear that theres more to the events which happened on 
the day the car was released than Mr M has told us about. Our investigator asked him on a 
number of occasions for details about what he thought appeared to be an agreement 
between Mr M and a third party to take ownership of the car. Mr M declined to provide us 
with that information and has simply insisted he wasnt supplied with the car. 
So, in situations like this, when the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Oodle, as well as the other parties involved in the provision of the goods and finance, 
contend that Mr M was supplied with the car he was entitled to under his agreement. They 
have provided this service with what I consider to be a persuasive and credible account of 
what happened on the day the car was released. 
Specifically, from whats been said by both Oodle and Mr M, Im satisfied that weve been 
provided with persuasive evidence to show that Mr M viewed the car, told the dealership and 
then a broker that he'd like to acquire it, and then told Oodle to release the funds pertaining 
to that acquisition, whilst seemingly at the dealership.
Our investigator asked Mr M to account for how those events led to him somehow not being 
in possession of the car and it ultimately being registered in someone elses name. Mr M 
hasnt, in my view, been able to explain how or why. Mr M has maintained that the car wasnt 
supplied to him, but to someone known to him. When asked for specific details of the 
relationship or arrangement he had with that person, hes declined to provide further 
information. 
I also note, as our investigator did, that Mr M took some time to raise his concerns with any 
of the parties involved in the supply of the car or the lending. Mr M says that he raised 
concerns In February 2020 and our investigator accepted that was possible. Im not 
persuaded that was the case. The evidence Ive seen suggests that it wasnt until August 
2020  some nine months after the start of the agreement  that Mr M raised the issue.
Whether it was three or nine months that it took Mr M to raise the issue, it was a number of 
months in any case. Given the events which Mr M says happened, Id have expected him to 
have raised the issue sooner. That is, unless Mr M had intended for the car to be given to a 
third party and was initially content with that arrangement, but subsequently changed his 
mind.
Theres further evidence to suggest thats likely the case - Mr M called Oodle a few months 
after the start of the agreement in February 2020 in relation to a payment issue, and he 
continued making the payments he was required to until around nine months into the 
agreement. Mr M says he did so expecting to be provided with the goods. Im not persuaded 
thats the case though. Oodles provided a copy of a call recording with someone who purports to be the registered 
keeper of the car. That person said they were in a relationship with Mr M at the time and 
says that hed given them the car in December 2019. Ive no reason to doubt that this is the 
case, particularly in the absence of a plausible alternative explanation from Mr M. Thats 
something hes been given ample opportunity to provide  but he seems to be reluctant to 
provide an explanation.
I acknowledge that Mr M has made a number of points which amount to an allegation of 
procedural impropriety on the part of those involved with the supply of the car and lending as 
a result of the car being registered to someone else. I cant say for sure what happened at 
the point it was supplied and how it ended up being registered to someone else. However, I 
think the evidence weve been provided strongly points to Mr M having entered into the 
agreement with Oodle with the intention of giving the goods away to a third party. And given 
that it seems to have been Mr Ms intention, I cannot fairly say that something has been 
done wrong that Oodle ought to bear responsibility for.
Given all of the above, and on balance, I think its fair to say that Mr M was provided with the 
goods he was entitled to under his finance agreement with Oodle, and it seems most likely 
that he elected to give them to someone else immediately following the start of the 
agreement. I therefore dont find that Oodle has done anything wrong in asking Mr M to 
make the repayments required under his agreement, and I think its treated him fairly in 
response to the situation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman