DRN-3190355
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In June 2017, Mrs M applied for a credit card from MBNA. This was approved with a limit of 
£1,200. Mrs M asked for an increase in the limit to £1,600 in September 2018  and this was 
agreed by MBNA.
Mrs M complained. She said she was a homemaker with no income. She couldnt afford to 
pay off the debt. She said she only ever made the minimum payments to the card and she 
was now in financial difficulty. MBNA couldnt have completed sufficient checks when 
lending her the money. She said MBNA should refund all interest and fees and write off the 
debt.
MBNA said shed passed their credit checks at the time of the issue of the card and at the 
time of the increase. Shed not been charged any late payment fees  so had paid in time. 
MBNA said Mrs M had asked for further limit increases four times between August 2019 and 
November 2020  all of which they declined.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said MBNA acted fairly. He said that in 
her application in June 2017, Mrs M said she had an income of £11,500 a year. MBNA could 
see she had a credit card with a balance of £4,266 against a limit of £4,700. Mrs M regularly 
paid more than the minimum amount needed on her MBNA card and didnt incur any late or 
overlimit fees  which showed she was able to maintain her account. MBNA had declined to 
give further limit increases, which showed theyd acted responsibly.
Mrs M didnt agree. In response to our investigators view, she said:
The other credit card was showing difficulties with repayment  the limit was 90% 
utilised. And the card had shown four late payments  indicating problems.
She had one other card in June 2017  with a limit of £500.
Her income in June 2017 comprised only benefits and was about £10,000 per 
annum.
She showed us her income & expenditure as at June 2017. This showed that her 
expenditure was greater than her income by £466 each month.
MBNA shouldve checked her bank account  this showed she had little money.
She only paid the minimum amount each month to the MBNA card. This showed she 
couldnt afford it.
She said the balance on the new card shot up after it was approved in June 2017, 
and then again after the increase in limit of September 2018. This showed she was in 
difficulty.
She said MBNAs interest rate was high at 27.9% APR
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether MBNA 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
Ive considered this guidance when looking at Mrs Ms complaint  as well as her further 
comments sent to us. I think its fair to say also that her limits of £1,200 and £1,600 can be 
considered fairly modest ones  and therefore MBNAs checks can be proportionate to that.
Ive looked at the information that MBNA had at the time of Mrs Ms application for the new 
card in June 2017, and then when she asked for the increase in September 2018.
In June 2017  she told MBNA that she had an annual income of £11,500. She later told us 
that it was less than that - £10,000 - and that it comprised of benefits. But  we can only 
expect MBNA to go on what they were told at the time. They could see from their credit 
searches that she had another credit card with a limit of £4,700 and a balance of £4,266. 
Mrs M says that was a high balance, but equally, MBNA could see there werent any 
problems with the card at the time  there werent any missed payments or arrears showing 
on her credit records with the credit reference agencies. So that suggested that Mrs M was 
paying her way. MBNA could see she hadnt any other debt problems  and so they issued 
the card. I cant say that this was wrong  MBNA completed the necessary checks.
Ive looked at Mrs Ms MBNA statements. These show how Mrs M was using the card and 
based on this information, MBNA wouldve assessed her request for a limit increase in 
September 2018  as Mrs M wouldve had the card for just over a year by then. After the card was issued in June 2017, I can see that Mrs M asked for a balance transfer. 
This was at nil interest up to September 2018. She transferred £915  so paid no interest on 
that amount for that period of time. There were very few purchase transactions on the card 
after that up to September 2018. But I can see that Mrs M paid more than the minimum each 
month  usually around £40 against the minimum needed - of £25. So that looked OK. And 
because the interest rate was zero on the balance transfer, the debit balance did start to 
reduce. Looking at Mrs Ms annual statement for the 12 months to June 2018, she had no 
over limit or late payment fees  so she was keeping within her limit and making regular 
payments  she was maintaining the card well. Total interest paid in the year was £15.74  a 
low amount.
And so  from what MBNA could see, Mrs M was running her card account reasonably well 
 and I can see why they then agreed to her request to increase the limit to £1,600 in 
September 2018. Mrs M says they shouldve asked to see her bank account, and asked 
questions about her income and expenditure. But given what MBNA could see at that time, I 
dont think they needed to  as everything look satisfactory, given how Mrs M had run her 
account.
Mrs M has said her balance shot up after the limit increase in September 2018 - and I can 
see that did happen. She withdrew £500 in cash. But  I can only look at what MBNA could 
see before the limit increase  I cant say they were responsible for how Mrs M used the 
card afterwards. But even looking at Mrs Ms annual statement for the 12 months up to June 
2019  so covering the period after the limit increase  Mrs M continued to pay a little more 
than the minimum needed - over £50 per month on average. And there werent any late fees 
or over limit fees  so even after the increase, she ran her account satisfactorily.
I can also see that Mrs M asked for limit increases in July 2017 and November 2017  both 
were declined by MBNA. So  this shows that MBNA were being cautious and not agreeing 
to an increase so soon after Mrs M had opened her account. Its also fair to note that MBNA 
later declined Mrs Ms later requests for increases in August 2019, September 2019, 
December 2019, and October 2020  so again, this showed they were acting responsibly.
Mrs M has said that the interest rate on the card was high  it was 27.9% APR. I can see 
that was the rate after Mrs Ms zero interest rate offer expired in September 2018. But  the 
interest rate is set by MBNA and is part of their commercial decision-making. Its not 
something we can interfere with. 
Ive looked at what happened thoroughly and considered Mrs Ms further points. But in the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint, I cant say that MBNA acted unfairly. Their checks were 
reasonable and proportionate to the limits that Mrs M asked for. And therefore, Im not going 
to ask them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman