DRN-2923904
The complaint
Mr S complains about the lack of communication from now4cover Limited and its mis-sold 
him a property insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
now4cover arranged a residential home insurance policy on 7 April 2019. 
On the 24 May 2019 now4cover wrote to Mr S and informed him that the insurer it 
had placed the policy with had gone into liquidation.
Mr S was unable to recover all his policy premium, he raised a complaint with 
now4cover about the administration and cancellation of the policy and then brought 
his complaint to this service.
A final decision was issued that found due diligence hadn't been complied with and 
recommended now4cover refund the balance of the policy premium with interest.
While Mr Ss first complaint was being considered, Mr S raised this complaint about 
the sale of the policy with now4cover. No final response was received from 
now4cover and the complaint was referred to our service.
Mr S says his property insurance needs shouldn't have been placed with a health 
insurance company. Placing his insurance needs with this insurer has resulted in 
time and effort having to find an alternative insurer and recovering his premium.
We started our investigations and now4cover raised objection to us considering the 
complaint, saying it was out of jurisdiction. An ombudsman issued a decision 
confirming our service could consider the complaint merits.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. In summary, whilst she 
didnt feel the evidence showed the insurer couldnt offer property insurance and/or 
wasnt fit to offer property insurance, she recognised that due to the lack of due 
diligence by now4cover, this led to inconvenience, time and effort encountered by Mr 
S when having to find alternative insurance and pursuing the recovery of his 
premium. She recommended £100 compensation.
Mr S accepted the investigators opinion but now4cover didnt respond. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The financial loss as a result of placing Mr Ss insurance needs with the insurer has been 
considered by our service in a previous complaint. For this complaint about the sale of the 
policy, Ive considered the non-financial loss impact on Mr S.
I acknowledge Mr Ss view that his property insurance needs should not have been placed 
with the insurer as this company was a health insurance provider. The evidence from Mr S 
refers to the insurer specialising in this insurance area. But like the investigator, Im not 
persuaded this evidence shows the insurer couldnt offer property insurance and/or wasnt fit 
to offer this type of insurance.
now4cover has argued that the policy couldnt have been mis-sold as it never provided
advice to Mr S. However, this is not the case. Even on a non-advised sale, a policy can be
mis-sold and now4cover still has certain obligations - agents or intermediaries must exercise
due diligence when placing insurance with insurers. Ive issued a final decision on Mr Ss 
previous complaint explaining why Im persuaded due diligence wasnt complied with by 
now4cover. 
Mr S has told us about the impact on his time, the inconvenience he experienced and the 
effort he went to finding an alternative insurer as well as recovering his policy premium as a 
result of the insurer going into liquidation. I acknowledge the impact on Mr S, and I think the 
lack of due diligence by now4cover during the sale of the policy was the cause. I am 
therefore persuaded that now4cover should compensate £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr S mentioned in his complaint correspondence about how now4cover should improve its 
communication going forward. I reiterate the point made by the investigator that our service 
is unable to get involved with the day to day workings of a financial organisation and order it 
to make general changes in its communication. This would be a matter for its regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
  
Putting things right
To put things right, now4cover limited should compensate Mr S, £100. now4cover must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.  
My final decision
For the reason given above, I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman