DRN-3780211
The complaint
Mrs V, representing the estate of Mr V, has complained that Standard Life Assurance 
Limited gave her late husband unsuitable advice to establish a personal pension policy 
(PPP) in 1995 and then to set up his lifetime annuity in 2006.
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint set out the background to the complaint in 
his assessment dated 28 October 2022, with which I note neither party has disagreed. 
Rather than paraphrase that summary, Ill set it out below, with some minor amendments.
On 7 January 1995, the late Mr V starting a personal pension plan with Standard Life, with a 
monthly contribution of £100 (gross) and a selected retirement age of 60  he was 42 years 
old at the time and self-employed. He was provided with an illustration showing the potential 
benefits payable at age 60, as outlined below:
assuming a return of 6% a year, the fund at age 60 would be £31,900
assuming a return of 12% a year, the fund at age 60 would be £56,200
On 7 May 1998, Mr V increased the monthly contribution to his personal pension plan by £50 
(gross)  the application form completed at the time showed that he was still self-employed. 
He was again provided with an illustration showing the potential benefits payable at age 60, 
as outlined below:
assuming a return of 6% a year, the fund at age 60 would be £10,700
assuming a return of 9% a year, the fund at age 60 would be £13,400
assuming a return of 12% a year, the fund at age 60 would be £16,900
On 21 March 2006, Mr V spoke to Standard Life to request immediate retirement quotations, 
and was advised that the value of his pension plan was £23,939.21  he was able to access 
the maximum tax-free cash sum of £5,984.80 and use the balance to provide a lifetime 
annuity. He was provided with quotations based upon different benefits taken from his 
pension plan and via the lifetime annuity, as outlined below:
maximum tax-free cash, no escalation, 5-year guarantee - £889.20 a year
maximum tax-free cash, 3% escalation, 5-year guarantee - £553.08 a year
no tax-free cash, no escalation, 5-year guarantee - £1,190.88 a year
no tax-free cash, 3% escalation, 5-year guarantee - £742.80 a year
A retirement guide was also sent to Mr V by Standard Life with the lifetime annuity 
quotations, providing details of the options available to him in respect of taking his
pension benefits  this said that if he needed to discuss this, he could speak with one of its
representatives or a financial adviser.
Mr V spoke to Standard Life again on 22 March 2006, confirming his decision to proceed on 
the basis of taking the maximum tax-free cash sum available from his pension plan, and a 
lifetime annuity with no escalation and a 10-year guarantee  based upon the pension plan 
value of £23,804.06, he would receive a tax-free cash sum of £5,951.01 and a lifetime 
annuity of £882 a year would be payable.
Standard Life sent Mr V a letter on 22 March 2006, confirming details of the retirement 
benefits payable from his pension plan, with the lifetime annuity payable in monthly 
instalments of £73.50 starting on this date.
A cancellation notice was also sent to Mr V in respect of the lifetime annuity, and he had 30 
days from the date of receiving this to sign and return it to Standard Life if he no longer 
wanted to proceed with the lifetime annuity.
A total of £11,319 was paid to Mr V from his lifetime annuity prior to his death on 19 January 
2019.
Mrs V complained to Standard Life, on behalf of the estate, in May 2021, saying that 
Standard Life had sold her late husband the pension without either of them fully 
understanding the impact it would have on them. The plan had been to take the pension 
benefits at age 60 or 65, Mrs V said, but Mr V had needed to access them early due to 
health issues. 
Mrs V said that, when her husband died in January 2019 she thought that, as his widow, 
shed receive some benefits or a lump sum, but she received nothing. The product therefore 
wasnt suitable, and as Mr V had been self-employed and a smoker, they should have been 
advised to consider other options and products. 
As a result, Mrs V said, they had suffered financially and had to rely on family, friends and 
state benefits to survive.
Standard Life issued its response in June 2021, in which it said that it had found no evidence 
of mis-selling of Mr Vs PPP. As Mr V had been self-employed, it would have been a suitable 
vehicle for him to make retirement provision, Standard Life said.
It added that, from total contributions of £18,250, Mr Vs fund value when he established the 
annuity in 2006 was £23,804, which meant that it had met its objective of achieving 
investment growth.
Mr V had instructed it to pay out the maximum tax free cash available - £5,951  and to use 
the remaining funds to buy a Standard Life annuity for the rest of his life, it said. The annuity 
paid out a total of £11,319 by the time of Mr Vs death in 2019.
Standard Life further said that, whilst it was unable to comment on the nature of any verbal 
discussions held at the time of establishing the PPP in 1995, the documentation which was 
provided at the time clearly explained the nature of the policy. It enclosed a copy of this with 
is response to Mrs V.
It also said that it considered the complaint about the suitability of the policy when it started 
in 1995 to be out of time under the rules which govern the operation of this service. In 
support of this position, it said that the complaint had been raised more than six years after 
the policy was established, and more than three years after it considered Mr V ought to have 
been aware of having cause for complaint, given that hed received the plan documentation 
and that hed bought an annuity with the plan benefits in 2006.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mrs V referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and initially issued an assessment in January 2022, 
noting that Standard Life had said that the complaint about the initial sale of the PPP had been raised too late, and that he didnt think that the complaint about the annuity in 2006 
should be upheld.
He said that Standard Life had sent the necessary paperwork to Mr V for him to be able to 
make an informed decision as to the type of annuity he wished to establish, and that there 
wasnt anything in the annuity documentation which suggested that the income would 
continue after his death.
He acknowledged that the annuity had paid out less than the amount used to buy it in the 
first place, but he said that this was an unfortunate risk with such contracts  and that, had 
Mr V lived for longer than had been expected, he would have received more than the 
purchase price.
The investigator also noted Mrs Vs concern that they hadnt received advice when 
establishing the annuity, but he said that this wasnt a requirement and that Mr V was 
entitled to buy the annuity without seeking financial advice.
In response, Mrs V reiterated that she and her husband hadnt understood pensions or 
annuities and that they had placed their trust in Standard Life. But, she said, as a 
consequence of that, they had lost out financially.
Mrs V further said that she and her husband had invested in several products with Standard 
Life and that all of them were arranged over the phone. They had gambled with their money 
right up until 2013, without understanding the risks involved, she said.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the outcome, the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman for review.
More recently, a further investigator wrote to both parties setting out his own assessment of 
the matter, including the issue of whether this service has jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint about the initial sale of the PPP in 1995. With regard to that particular aspect, he 
said the following in summary:
He explained the rules under which we operated, and said that Mrs Vs complaint 
had been brought more than six years after the event complained of  the sale of the 
PPP in 1995.
With regard to whether the complaint about the sale of the PPP had been raised 
more than three years after Mr or Mrs V were aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of having cause for concern, he agreed with Standard Life that it had.
In support of this, he said that Mr V had been provided with illustrations at the policys 
inception, and that if the amount he was receiving from his pension in 2006 was 
different to this, this would be the point at which Mr V ought reasonably to have been 
aware of there being a problem with the initial sale of the policy.
As the complaint about the sale of the policy wasnt made until 2021, this was more 
than three years later, and so the complaint was out of time.
The investigator did, however, think that we could consider the sale of the annuity in 2006, 
saying in summary that it wouldnt necessarily have become apparent until Mr Vs death in 
2019 that there was a problem with the way in which the annuity had been set up  in that 
the income ceased at that point.He also noted that Standard Life had queried as to whether Mrs V was an eligible 
complainant, as Mrs V wasnt a party to the lifetime annuity contract.
However, he said that, where the deceased party could have chosen to include a spouses 
or dependants pension, we would be able to consider whether they should have been 
entitled to this, and whether the annuity had been established correctly.
As to the merits of the complaint relating to the sale of the annuity in 2006, the investigator 
said the following in summary:
Mr V had opted for the annuity to last until his death, but with a ten year guarantee of 
payment, even if he didnt survive for those ten years. The following had been 
included in the letter of March 2006 relating to Mr Vs annuity:
Your last instalment will be the instalment which is due to be paid on or before the 
date of your death
and:
Your annuity is guaranteed to be paid for 10 years even if you die before the end of 
that period. If you die before you have received 10 complete years' payments, your 
annuity will be paid to your legal personal representatives until 10 complete years' 
payments have been made and will then stop.
The options chosen suggested that a discussion about these had been held with 
Standard Life. The option of a spouses or dependants annuity would have 
significantly reduced the amount of annuity Mr V received in his lifetime, but a ten 
year guarantee would have been comparatively cheaper.
The retirement guide provided to Mr V along with the lifetime annuity quotations also 
said the following:
When arranging your pension benefits, there are several choices you need to make. 
You may select a lifetime annuity, and can choose to take some of your pension fund 
as a tax-free lump sum, normally up to 25%. The most suitable lifetime annuity for 
you depends upon your individual circumstances. A financial adviser will be able to 
help you with your decisions.
A Lifetime Annuity provides a pension which will be payable to you for life. The 
money you can use to buy a Lifetime Annuity comes from the funds built up within a 
pension plan. You dont have to buy your Lifetime Annuity from Standard Life  you 
may be able to get a higher pension from another authorised Lifetime Annuity 
provider.
Depending on your circumstances, an impaired life or enhanced Lifetime Annuity 
may be appropriate. These types of Lifetime Annuity may offer higher levels of 
pension to those who have a reduced life expectancy. Standard Life does not 
currently offer this type of product, but your financial adviser will be able to tell you 
which companies do offer these.
The retirement guide also provided comprehensive information relating to Mr Vs 
options upon his death. As such, the investigator was satisfied that Standard Life 
provided Mr V with the required information for him to be able to make an informed 
decision.The default option for a guarantee in the quotations was five years, but Mr V had 
opted for a ten year guarantee period. This suggested that he had read and 
considered the information and made a conscious decision on that basis.
As to the matter of whether Mr V should have received advice, the investigator said 
that the retirement guide had recommended that Mr V speak with a financial adviser 
if he needed help with his decision making.
And then regarding Mr Vs ill health at the time of buying the annuity, the investigator 
said that the information provided by Standard Life in the retirement guide was 
sufficient for Mr V to be able to consider whether an impaired life or enhanced 
annuity might be an option with a different provider. He thought it adhered to the 
expectations of good industry practice at the time.
Mrs V was still concerned with the outcome of the complaint, saying that Standard Life had 
sent her and Mr V information which they didnt understand  especially the prospect of her 
not receiving any income upon Mr Vs death.
Mr V had trusted Standard Life and the investigator couldnt know his reasoning at the time, 
as Mrs V thought had been suggested. Mrs V remained of the view that Standard Life should 
have explained the risks associated with the annuity, and in particular that she wouldnt 
receive whatever was left of the pension funds upon his death.
Whatever sum of money was left upon Mr Vs death should have been given to her, Mrs V 
said. She added that, being a lay person in such matters, she didnt really understand what 
the investigator had said in his assessment.
The investigator apologised for any suggestion that hed been aware of Mr Vs reasoning at 
the time of buying the annuity, saying that hed attempted to provide his view of the matter 
based upon the available evidence.
But he said that, as agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it would be referred to an 
ombudsman for review. As such, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id firstly offer my sincere condolences to Mrs V and her family for the loss 
of Mr V. I know that in dealing with matters such as this, it can make an already difficult 
situation worse still.
But whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs V, Ive reached similar conclusions to those of 
the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive noted what Mrs V has said about not understanding whats been said in our assessment 
of the complaint, so I think it would firstly be helpful if I try to explain further what has 
happened in this case.
In particular, Ive noted Mrs Vs comments about any money which was left in the pension 
fund needing to be paid to her. But to hopefully make things a bit clearer, when a pension 
fund is used to buy an annuity, as happened here with the approximately £18,000 which was 
left after Mr V had taken his tax free cash of just under £6,000, the entirety of it is effectively swapped for the annuity which will then be paid to the policyholder for the chosen term.
That terms can either be for the life of the person who bought the annuity only  Mr V  or 
can be paid after that either for a guaranteed period  five years or ten years (as was the 
case here), irrespective of whether the person who bought the annuity lives that long.
Alternatively, the annuity can be set up so that it is payable to the person who bought it, and 
then upon their death, to their spouse or nominated dependant. But as the investigator said, 
this is a more expensive option because of the additional amount of time the annuity will 
usually be paid for, and so reduces the actual amount of income payable.
And so what this means is that there is no fund left as such once the annuity has been 
bought. Its been swapped for future income at that point. Whether the annuity continues to 
be paid is very much dependent upon how it was set up in the first place.
And in terms of the decision making on that, I think the investigator has made a good point, 
in that it seems that Mr V didnt choose one of the default annuity quotation options, but 
rather decided upon an annuity which would have a ten year guaranteed payment period. As 
with the investigator, I think this is quite indicative of Mr V having considered which option 
would have been the right one, based upon the information provided by Standard Life.
I also agree with what the investigator has said about the standard of information provided to 
Mr V, and that this would have met the expectations of making a policyholder sufficiently 
aware of their options at the time. The quotations from the retirement guide set out above 
are, in my view, clear in setting out that Mr V could shop around for an annuity with a 
different provider, which might be higher than which could be offered by Standard Life. 
Further, Standard Life said that Mr V might be able to obtain an enhanced annuity if he had 
a reduced life expectancy.
And although it wasnt obliged to provide financial advice on Mr Vs options, Standard Life 
also informed Mr V that, if he needed help making his decision on an annuity, he should 
seek financial advice. Ive noted carefully what Mrs V has said about her and her husband 
not understanding the information which was provided, but notwithstanding what Ive said 
above about it appearing to be the case that Mr V did make an informed decision, if they 
were confused by their options or what was being proposed, they did have the option of 
seeking financial advice. 
And so, overall, I think that Standard Life did what was expected of it at the time. As such, I 
wouldnt uphold that aspect of the complaint.
Ive further noted the investigators comments relating to whether we have jurisdiction to 
consider the initial sale of the PPP in 1995. I think its arguable as to whether Mr V would 
reasonably have had cause for complaint about the suitability of the PPP when he bought 
the annuity in 2006. If it was a matter of performance, and Mr and/or Mrs V had complained 
that they thought they would receive a higher sum than the PPP achieved by 2006, then I 
agree that the figures received in 2006, compared to those illustrated in 1995, might 
reasonably have made Mr or Mrs V aware that there was a problem.
But I think Mrs Vs concern is more about whether, aside from its performance, the PPP was 
the right product for Mr V in the first place. So Ive thought carefully about that. And having 
done so, I agree with Standard Lifes conclusion that, as a retirement savings vehicle for 
someone like Mr V, who was self-employed and therefore didnt have the option of 
contributing to an employer based scheme, the PPP was likely to have been suitable. 
Mr V would have been benefitting from tax relief on his contributions, and tax efficient growth within the pension wrapper, which are key advantages of PPPs over other savings plans. 
And a combination of that tax relief, along with tax efficient growth on the contributions 
between 1995 and 2006, meant that the £18,250 paid in by Mr V returned a value in 2006 of 
£23,804, with which Mr V was then able to buy his annuity.
Summary
As Ive said above, Im sorry that Mrs V will be disappointed by this decision, and I know that 
financial challenges can exacerbate an already very difficult situation. But for the reasons 
given, I dont think that Standard Life has done anything wrong here, and so theres no fair or 
reasonable basis on which the complaint could be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr V 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman