DRN-2640708
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car he bought under a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality. Specifically, he says he found out that it 
had been involved in a serious accident and that the subsequent repairs were of a poor 
standard.   
What happened
On 23 October 2019 Mr T bought a car from Santander under a conditional sale agreement. 
The car had been first registered in March 2017 and had a recorded mileage of around 
30,000. The cash price was just under £16,000, which Mr T was to pay by an advance 
payment of £1,125 and 60 monthly payments of £321.95. 
Shortly after he took delivery, Mr T said that there was a noise coming from the front offside 
area of the car, it pulled to the right and the tyres needed replacing. These were all items 
that he had identified on a test drive and which the dealership had said would be resolved 
before delivery. The tyres and wheel bearings were replaced, and this resolved the noise 
issue, but Mr T said the car was still pulling. 
On or about 21 November 2019 Mr T says he was contacted by a relative of a previous 
keeper of the car. He said that the car had been involved in a serious accident and provided 
Mr T with a photograph of it; that showed significant damage to the nearside, following a 
collision with a lorry. 
Mr T contacted the dealership. It said it did not know about any accident and that it would not 
have knowingly sold the car if it had been aware of one. Any accident damage had been 
repaired without its knowledge. 
Mr T contacted Santander, which then arranged an independent inspection. That inspection 
confirmed that the car had indeed been involved in an accident. It concluded as well that, 
whilst the car had been repaired, those repairs had not been completed to a satisfactory 
standard. The cars structural integrity had not been compromised, but the inspection report 
said that the bonnet was misaligned, there was rust blistering and in parts the paint was too 
thin. The car continued to pull to the offside when driven. 
In May 2020 Mr T sold the car. This left a shortfall under the finance agreement of just over 
£1,000, which Mr T paid in June 2020.
Santander did not accept responsibility for the accident damage. It said that the dealership 
was unaware of it and that there was in any event no way of knowing when the accident had 
taken place. Mr T referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered it. Initially she agreed that it was not clear when the accident had happened, but 
then contacted the owner of the lorry that had been involved; they confirmed that it had 
happened in March 2017. The investigator therefore issued a second view, upholding the 
complaint and requiring Santander to refund Mr Ts initial payment and the shortfall payment 
he had made. Mr T was broadly in agreement with her findings. Santander asked for 
evidence of the payments made when Mr T sold the car (which was provided) but did not 
respond. The case has therefore been passed to me for further consideration.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale agreement between Mr T and Santander was to be read as including a 
term that the car would be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. That means that it was 
to be of the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. In the case of a 
used car, those circumstances would usually include, for example, its age, mileage and 
price. 
I accept that neither the dealership nor Santander knew that Mr Ts car had been involved in 
a serious accident. It appears that a previous keeper had arranged repairs without telling the 
finance company which owned the car at the time. That does not however absolve 
Santander of the duty to provide a car that was satisfactory. For the avoidance of doubt, I 
accept that the accident happened and that the repairs were carried out well before October 
2019. They did not happen in the short time that Mr T had the car. 
I must therefore consider whether this meant that the car was not of satisfactory quality. As 
the investigator noted, a used car would not usually be expected to be of the same quality as 
a new one; some wear and tear is to be expected, and some items might need repair or 
replacement. It would not be unusual if some repairs  including accident damage repairs  
had been carried out. 
In this case, however, I think it is important to note that the accident was relatively serious. 
The logistics firm which owned the lorry involved in it said that the repairs to the car had 
taken a month. It seems too that, had the car been a little older at the time, it might have 
been written off by insurers. The picture of the car at the time of the accident shows the 
extent of the damage. 
The inspection report is very clear in its conclusions that the repairs were not carried out to a 
satisfactory standard. It said: The overall repair is however, not to a commercially 
acceptable standard and attention is required.
The fact that the car had been in an accident and had been repaired is not, of itself, sufficient 
for me to conclude that it was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. However, the 
repairs themselves were not satisfactory; a reasonable person would, I think, expect any 
repairs to have been carried out to a reasonable standard, such that no further attention is 
needed. That was not the case here. 
There is no suggestion that the accident or the repairs were taken into account in setting the 
price of the car, or that Mr T was told about them. On the contrary, the dealership says  and 
I accept  that it did not know about them. 
It follows therefore that Santander did not provide Mr T with a car that was of satisfactory 
quality. He should receive compensation for that.                 
Putting things right
Since his complaint arose, Mr T has sold the car; the buyer made payment to Santander, but 
this left a shortfall of £1,078.99 which Mr T has paid. In addition, he made an advance 
payment of £1,125. Had the car been of satisfactory quality, its likely that he would have 
recovered these amounts when he sold it. They broadly represent the loss he suffered because the car was not satisfactory. 
Mr T should therefore receive reimbursement of these sums, together with interest. I believe 
he should also receive a further sum in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has 
been put. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve this complaint, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
should pay Mr T:
£1,125.00, together with interest at 8% simple from 23 October 2019 to the date of 
payment;
£1,078.99, together with interest at 8% simple from 8 June 2020 to the date of payment; 
and
£250 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman