DRN-3179285
The complaint
Ms E complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold her an annuity in 2008, which 
led to a financial disadvantage. She wants Phoenix to put her back into the position she 
considers she shouldve been in since 2008. 
Phoenix is responsible for this complaint. But was trading under the name of a predecessor 
business at the time of the annuity sale. Ill only refer to Phoenix in my decision. 
What happened
Ms E held a personal pension with Phoenix, as a result of contracting out of the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). As she was approaching her chosen 
retirement age, I understand Ms E asked Phoenix for a retirement quotation in 2008.
 
Phoenix sent Ms E a retirement pack in August 2008. This provided details of her options. 
Ms E returned a completed application form to Phoenix on 13 August 2008. This showed 
that shed selected a joint annuity with her then husband. The annuity went into payment 
in October 2008.
Ms E made a series of complaints to Phoenix about the sale of the annuity. 
Phoenix issued their final response to the complaint on 20 November 2020. They didnt 
uphold it. They said the retirement pack theyd sent in 2008 confirmed that Ms E didnt 
have to buy an annuity from them. They also said that they hadnt provided financial 
advice at the time of the annuity purchase as theyd ceased to have a sales force from 
February 2000. They said the retirement pack had made it clear that they couldnt provide 
financial advice. But had clearly recommended that Ms E discussed her retirement 
options with a financial adviser.
Phoenix said that Ms Es annuity purchase had been reviewed in 2018. They said this 
review had concluded that she hadnt been made sufficiently aware that she might be 
able to buy an enhanced annuity with another provider. But also that Ms E hadnt been 
financially disadvantaged as the annuity shed actually bought was higher than any she 
mayve been eligible to purchase as an enhanced annuity with another provider. They 
also said that they had no record of ever receiving the Beneficiary Form. 
Ms E didnt agree with Phoenix. She didnt consider that the 2008 retirement pack 
contained anything about joint annuities, or that shed been given any other annuity 
options.  She said Phoenixs representative had just ticked the joint annuity box on the 
form because she was married at the time. She also felt that Phoenix shouldve acted on 
the Beneficiary Form she said shed sent them on 3 January 2008. Phoenix said they 
never received the Beneficiary Form. Ms E said that shed been rushed into signing the 
options form, without being given relevant information on joint annuities. 
Phoenix considered Ms Es points, but still didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms E wrote again to Phoenix. She felt the annuity had been illegally sold.
Phoenix replied to Ms E. They said that their predecessor business hadnt been 
authorised to provide financial advice in 2008. And that theyd recommended that Ms E 
sought independent advice. 
Ms E wrote again to Phoenix. She said they still hadnt answered all of her original 
questions. When Phoenix didnt respond, she brought her complaint to this service.
Part of Ms Es complaint was that she hadnt wanted the annuity to be set up in her ex 
partners name. And wanted Phoenix to remove him from the annuity or cancel it. This 
service investigated this complaint in 2017 and felt that Phoenix had acted fairly. Our 
investigator at that time said that it wasnt possible to change the terms of the annuity or to 
cancel it. 
Although Ms E asked this service to re-open this aspect of her complaint, the current 
investigator told her we couldnt do this. She said this was because in 2017, our 
investigator had considered all the issues when she reviewed the complaint. And it 
couldnt be re-opened or reconsidered.
Our investigator considered the other aspects of Ms Es complaint. But didnt feel that 
they should be upheld. She said shed found no failing in the process Phoenix had 
followed in the sale of the annuity. And no evidence that theyd acted illegally in selling 
the annuity. She felt that the retirement pack did make it clear that Ms E had the 
opportunity to buy an annuity in the open market. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Ms E hadnt been fully informed about an enhanced 
annuity option. But concluded that as the 2018 pension review that had been conducted 
had found that the annuity rate Ms E had been offered was higher than any other 
available, she hadnt been financially disadvantaged. She also said that it hadnt been 
Phoenixs responsibility to ensure that the annuity she bought was suitable for her needs, 
as it was a non-advised sale.
Our investigator also considered Ms Es complaint about why her pension hadnt been 
transferred back into her occupational pension plan. I wont address this point here as 
Phoenix have agreed to consider this part of the complaint separately. 
Our investigator also considered the Beneficiary Form. She said that the annuity had 
been set up as a joint policy with Ms Es ex-husband. So, if she were to die before him, 
any benefits would pass to him. And this couldnt be changed. But she felt that Phoenix 
should add the Beneficiary Form to their files in the event that they ever had to use their 
discretion regarding the benefits of the pension in the future.
Ms E disagreed with our investigator. She still felt the annuity had been sold illegally. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know Ms E will be very disappointed by this, so 
Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the submissions that have 
been made by Ms E and Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
I considered the following aspects of Ms Es complaints, which this service hasnt previously 
addressed:
- Phoenix acted illegally selling the annuity as they werent authorised to provide 
advice.
- Phoenix didnt consider the Beneficiary Form shed sent them
- the annuity she purchased wasnt suitable for her needs
- she wasnt informed about an open market option
- she wasnt informed about an enhanced annuity option
I agree with our investigator that I cant re-open and reconsider the complaint from 2017. So 
I wont be addressing that part of Ms Es complaint in this decision. And although our 
investigator considered Ms Es complaint about why her pension hadnt been transferred 
back into her occupational pension plan, I wont address this in my decision as Phoenix have 
agreed to consider this part of the complaint separately. 
I need to decide if Phoenix acted fairly and reasonably when Ms E purchased her annuity. 
I first considered whether theres evidence that Phoenix acted illegally when selling the 
annuity.
Did Phoenix act illegally when selling the annuity?
From what Ive seen, Ms E feels strongly that Phoenix acted illegally when they sold her the 
annuity in 2008. 
I think this is because of a misunderstanding brought about by the wording in Phoenixs final 
response letter. In that letter, they stated that theyd:
closed to new business in February 2000 and ceased to have a sales force from that 
point.
Phoenix made this point to explain why they didnt provide financial advice at the time of the 
annuity purchase. 
Ms E questioned why Phoenix had still sold her an annuity in 2008, given she felt theyd told 
her they werent authorised to. But it wasnt the case that they werent authorised to sell 
annuities at that point. It was simply that they were no longer able to provide financial advice 
for any annuity purchase.
Having reviewed all the evidence, Ive found nothing indicating Phoenix acted illegally. So I 
cant uphold this part of the complaint.
I next considered the Beneficiary Form Ms E said she sent to Phoenix early in 2008.
Beneficiary Form
Ms E said that Phoenix sent her a Beneficiary Form to complete in 2008. She said she didnt 
know what it was for. But she completed it and sent it back to them on 3 January 2008.Ive seen a copy of that form. It explains that it should be completed to Nominate 
beneficiaries  in respect of any life cover and/or return of pension fund payable in the form 
of a lump sum on death.  
Ms E nominated her daughter on this form. But Phoenix said they had no record of receiving 
it. 
I cant know whether or not Phoenix received the form. But, even if they did, Im not 
persuaded it shouldve had any impact on which sort of annuity Ms E decided to buy. I say 
this because the Beneficiary Form had a specific purpose, which was for a customer to 
nominate someone to whom any life cover or return of pension would be paid as a lump sum 
on the customers death. The form wasnt trying to establish who Ms E wanted her joint 
pension to be set up with. Therefore, even if Phoenix did have this form before the pension 
was set up, I dont consider that it wouldve had any impact on the joint life pension Ms E 
selected. And I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
However, as our investigator noted, I agree that Phoenix should retain a copy of Ms Es 
Beneficiary Form for their records.
I next considered if the annuity was suitable for Ms Es needs. Within this section, I also 
considered whether Ms E was informed about the open market option. And whether she was 
informed about any enhanced annuity options.
Was the annuity suitable for Ms Es needs?
As I noted above, Phoenix were authorised to sell annuities in 2008. But they werent 
allowed to provide customers with financial advice about which annuity was most suitable for 
their needs. As our investigator noted, this is called a non-advised sale. 
Ms E told this service that Phoenix asked her to have a meeting with their representative on 
13 August 2008. And that she said that representative told her that Phoenix had asked him 
to complete her annuity application form. She also said that he had requested a joint annuity 
even though shed told him that shed sent in a Beneficiary Form earlier that year. And that 
shed been told he had to select the joint life option because she was married at the time. 
She said she signed the document under duress. 
I acknowledge what Ms E has said, but Ive no documentary evidence that Phoenix chose 
the joint annuity option for Ms E. She did sign and date the option form, indicating she was 
comfortable with the choices. Therefore, Im persuaded that she did make the choice herself. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Phoenix didnt advise Ms E. But they did have a duty to provide her 
with enough information so that she could make an informed decision. The retirement pack 
they sent did, in my opinion, provide this information. And although Ms E disputed ever 
receiving the pack, Im more persuaded that she did receive it. I say this because Phoenix 
received completed and signed forms from Ms E which were contained within the pack.
As our investigator noted, as they werent her adviser, it wasnt Phoenixs responsibility to 
ensure the annuity Ms E bought was suitable for her needs. It was Ms Es responsibility to 
review all of the information in the retirement pack and make her own decision. Therefore I 
cant reasonably say that Phoenix have any responsibility for the suitability of the annuity. 
Ms E said that she wasnt informed about having an open market option. But the retirement 
pack Phoenix sent made clear that she could buy an annuity on the open market. Ms E also said that she wasnt informed about an enhanced annuity option. This isnt in 
dispute. The retirement pack didnt provide enough information to draw Ms Es attention to 
the fact that she mightve been eligible for an enhanced annuity with Phoenix or another 
provider.
In their September 2018 letter sent after the review of her annuity had been carried out, 
Phoenix said that the annuity rate theyd offered was higher than any other available, even 
enhanced rates, at the time. Therefore, although the retirement pack couldve been clearer 
on this point, Im satisfied that the lack of information about enhanced annuity options didnt 
cause Ms E any financial detriment. 
Im sorry that Ms E has been disappointed by the joint annuity she purchased. But Im 
unable to uphold any aspect of her complaint against Phoenix, for the reasons Ive explained 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman