DRN-2939285
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Current Account Plus in October 2011 and a fee-paying Tech Pack in May 2016.
Miss D says that she thought she was just paying for fraud protection and she was unaware 
that she was paying for other benefits such as gadget cover.
What happened
Barclays said that our service is unable to consider Miss Ds complaint about the sale of her 
Current Account Plus account because she complained too late about it. One of our 
ombudsmen assessed the complaint and he concluded that our service is unable to consider 
Miss Ds complaint about the sale of the Current Account Plus. 
One of our adjudicators then assessed whether the Tech Pack had been mis-sold, and she 
concluded that it had not been.
Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, so the matter was referred for another 
ombudsmans decision. 
As it has already been established that our service cannot look at the sale of the Current 
Account Plus account, this decision will only address whether the Tech Pack was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
 
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong
when it changed Miss Ds account to a fee-free account with a Tech pack added. Id like to
explain the reasons for my decision.
I should start by saying that Barclays didnt sell Miss D a further packaged account in
May 2016. I understand that Barclays chose to withdraw the Current Account Plus at that 
stage. When Barclays withdrew the Current Account Plus account, it moved all account 
holders that had this account on to a fee-free account with a Tech Pack. I understand this 
was because the benefits on the Tech Pack most closely matched the ones that were on the 
Current Account Plus account  so those who were relying on the insurance benefits 
continued to receive similar cover. 
As this wasnt a further sale of a packaged account, Barclays didnt need to get Miss Ds 
agreement before making this change. What Barclays did have to do however, was to notify 
Miss D about the upcoming changes to her account, to provide her with the opportunity to 
opt out of the Tech Pack, if she didnt want it to be added to her account.
Barclays says that in March 2016, it wrote to Miss D to say that the Current Account Plus
was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and that Miss Ds account
would be changed to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech pack - for an increased monthly
fee of £9.50 per month. Barclays says it sent a follow up letter to Miss D in May 2016 to 
confirm that her account had changed.
Miss D says that she didnt receive these letters. But Barclays has provided a copy of the 
letters it sent, and the letters appear to have been sent to the correct address for Miss D. 
And Barclays has no returned mail recorded for Miss D from 2016. Therefore, based on the 
evidence that I have seen, I think that Barclays did what it needed to do, to inform Miss D 
about the changes that were taking place on her account.
Miss D says that its not about the letters, its about the fact I never questioned my payment 
to Barclays just because I was sure it was an insurance in case of fraud and not a gadget 
insurance. However, the letters explained that Miss Ds account will be changed from a 
packaged bank account to a fee-free account with a Tech pack added on. They explained 
the differences in cover on the insurance benefits between the existing Current Account Plus 
account and the Tech pack. This included an explanation that the Tech Pack came with 
insurance to cover mobile phones and gadgets  and they pointed out that Miss D had no 
phones or gadgets registered under the insurance policy. So I think the letters did make it 
clear that Miss D would have these types of insurance provided with her account.
The migration letters explained that the monthly fee will increase from £6.50 to £9.50 a 
month. And they went on to explain the options available to miss D - including doing nothing 
if she was happy with the changes, as well as what she should do, if she wasnt happy with 
the changes being made to the account.
Therefore, I am satisfied that Barclays did what it needed to do to make it clear to Miss D in 
March 2016 that the Tech Pack wasnt compulsory and that she couldve chosen not to have 
it added to her account, if she didnt want it. 
Miss D says that she was not in the UK in May 2016. But I think Barclays gave Miss D 
enough time to take action before the changes were due to take place, and before shed left 
the UK. Also, even if it was the case that Miss D was out of the country when the second 
letter was sent to her, I see no reason why she would not have seen it upon her return to the 
UK. So whilst I am unable to comment on whether the Current Account Plus was mis-sold, I 
think Barclays provided Miss D with enough information in 2016, so that she could make an 
informed decision about whether to continue with a Tech Pack or not.
It therefore follows that I dont think it is appropriate to require Barclays to refund the Tech 
Pack fees, in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman