The complaint
Mrs T complains that shes received less compensation from TSB Bank plc than her 
husband received for an identical complaint.
What happened
Mrs T told us that she and her husband each have their own current accounts with TSB. 
They were both affected when TSBs service failed, and unable to access online banking for 
five days. She said the impact on them was the same. But she complained that her husband 
was paid a total of £300. She was paid a total of £125. 
Mrs T thought they should be paid the same for identical complaints. She said being paid 
less had upset her, and made her feel like TSB was discriminating against her. She just 
wanted the same as her husband had been paid.
TSB said that like a number of its customers, Mrs T doesnt use her account for day to day 
banking. It said that the impact of its service failure on customers who dont use their 
accounts for day to day banking was lower than that for other customers who do use their 
TSB account as their main account. 
TSB said it had paid Mrs T £25, then a further £25, then a further £100, making £150 in total. 
TSB felt the amount of redress paid to Mrs T was fair. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the amount Mrs T had been paid 
wasnt an unfair or unreasonable amount for this complaint. Our service wouldnt comment 
on what had been paid to her husband, we could only look at her circumstances. And he 
said our service wouldnt consider the delay in responding to her complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think TSB had to do any more. 
Mrs T didnt agree. She said TSB had done a review to make sure all customers from this 
period were treated consistently and fairly and its final response letter to her said you 
werent awarded redress in line with our other customers. She said TSB hadnt been 
consistent, and we should be asking it more questions about that. She said we should be 
considering the delay in responding to her complaint, and should add extra compensation for 
this. She also said that wed omitted to add an allowance for the distress she suffered, and 
any pain and suffering, to her compensation. So she felt her compensation was too low. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that our service wouldnt necessarily agree 
with the amount her husband had received. He couldnt comment on that, he hadnt 
investigated her husbands complaint. But in terms of Mrs Ts complaint, he thought that 
what she had been given was fair. 
DRN-1888871Our investigator said that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so we cant consider 
complaints that are solely about how a complaint was handled. And he felt that this part of 
Mrs Ts case was a separate complaint, solely about how her complaint was handled once it 
was made. 
Our investigator said he had considered all the impacts on Mrs T that shed mentioned. And 
he still thought the award made to her was fair. 
Mrs T wanted to see what TSB had said to us. Our investigator said it hadnt replied to his 
last email, and it doesnt have to. Well then make a decision on what we have. 
Mrs T wrote again, and said we had suggested TSB pay £25 more, but we hadnt 
commented on why there was such a difference in awards for identical complaints, how TSB 
and we had assessed that this mistake had affected Mrs T practically and emotionally. And 
we hadnt provided specific comments and an explanation of how the same issue can have 
such different impacts on Mrs T and her husband. She said that unless we could show the 
impact on her was different to that on her husband, she was still asking for increased 
compensation, to match that paid to her husband for an identical complaint. She felt that our 
position of having ultimate responsibility for assessing compensation put her at a position of 
great disadvantage, especially if we continued not to accept any of her points.  
Our investigator said he hadnt suggested TSB should pay £25 now. Hed said it had paid 
£150 in total. He has since set out for Mrs T when those payment were made, and sent her 
the relevant complaint response letters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I turn to the core of Mrs Ts complaint, Id like to set out formally my agreement with 
our investigator, that our service cant consider the delay in responding to Mrs Ts complaint. 
I think that for essentially the same reasons he gave. That does seem to me to be a discrete 
complaint about complaint handling, and our service doesnt have jurisdiction to deal with 
this complaint into a matter which isnt regulated.
Now Ill turn to the core of Mrs Ts case. Mrs T received compensation for not being able to 
access TSBs online banking for five days. She was then prompted to complain because she 
received a letter from TSB saying her compensation had been reviewed, as you werent 
awarded redress in line with our other customers. TSB had already paid her £50, and it paid 
a further £100 with that letter. 
Mrs T thinks this is unfair, because her husband received more. Shes concerned shes been 
discriminated against. 
Discrimination can have a specific legal meaning  its the unlawful behaviour set out in the 
Equality Act. The Act applies to TSB, and its something Ive taken into account in how Ive 
thought about this case. I note, however, that Mrs T hasnt referred to the Equality Act or 
asked me to make a specific finding about it  and, while I take it into account, making 
findings on matters of law is something a court is better placed to do than I am.
However, I think theres a broader meaning of discrimination too beyond the technical legal 
definition  its that Mrs T feels she was treated unfairly. The comparison with her husband 
suggests Mrs T may feel that this different treatment happened because of her gender. Ive looked at this case with that broader meaning very much in mind to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mrs T has drawn a comparison with her husband. Shes told us that he was affected in 
exactly the same way as she was. I havent got details on her husbands complaint, or how 
he was affected by the TSB service outage, but Ive no reason to doubt what she says about 
that.
Our service makes its own assessment of the appropriate amount of compensation in any 
case, and we would tend to have regard to this, rather than what a business has previously 
paid for a similar complaint. But Mrs T says this case is different, because shes received 
less than her husband. And she said TSB reviewed her case because shed been paid less 
than others. 
I think when TSB reviewed Mrs Ts case, it accepted that it had previously paid her less than 
others. But it appears to have considered that a payment of £100 would then provide a level 
playing field with its other customers. I think TSB was drawing a comparison here between 
the compensation awarded to Mrs T, and the compensation awarded to the majority of its 
other customers. Not specifically to Mr T. And I dont think she has been awarded less, when 
shes compared to the majority of TSBs other customers in the same position. 
I dont know exactly why Mr T was offered more, and in a complaint that was brought by Mrs 
T alone, it would be improper of me to disclose that even if I did. But it is possible that TSB 
just made a mistake about that. And because Im satisfied that TSB hasnt paid Mrs T less 
than the majority of other customers in the same position as her, I dont think that its failed 
to award her redress in line with its other customers. I dont think it has to pay her the same 
as her husband.
Mrs T has also questioned how we assess the impact on her, and asked for more details 
around this. To make this assessment, we consider everything she has told us. So Ive 
looked at all the evidence she has submitted to us. But I dont think that I can take account of 
the upset Mrs T feels because she thinks TSB has been unfair to her. Thats because I dont 
think it has been unfair. And, without that element, I agree with our investigator that the total 
of £150 that Mrs T has received, which she said was paid for being without internet banking 
for five days, was sufficient in the circumstances of her case to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to her complaint. So, although I know Mrs T will be disappointed, I dont think her 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman