DRN-2939846
The complaint
Mr S complains about an agreement to extend his car lease agreement with Lex Autolease 
Ltd (Lex).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
When Lex emailed Mr S in July 2020 they explained that the application to extend the 
contract would be subject to a credit check and they asked Mr S to return the completed 
application by email as a PDF.
Mr S says he sent the application by post and Lex say they didnt receive it. On that basis I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest Lex have done anything wrong. The application wasnt 
to be approved automatically and was subject to a credit check. As the application wasnt 
retuned via email as requested and theres no proof of posting, it wouldnt be fair to suggest 
there was sufficient evidence Lex had received the application documents. The new terms 
couldnt apply until that application was successfully completed. So, I cant say Lex were 
wrong not to apply the new terms. 
Whilst Mr S offered to resend the application he didnt do so until December 2020 about five 
months after the initial quotation. At that point I dont think it would be fair to suggest Lex 
needed to honour the initial quotation. They had explained when they emailed Mr S in July 
2020 that all quotations were subject to change daily.
As the original contract had come to an end Mr S could have returned the car at any point. 
He didnt have to keep paying at the rate he had been paying and whilst I understand there 
were delays in Lex responding, it was for Mr S to decide if he wanted to keep the car or 
return it. The handling of the complaint, as our investigator has explained, isnt a regulated 
activity and its not something we are able to consider.
Since our investigator issued his most recent opinion Mr S has explained that hes noted Lex 
recorded a default to his credit file in May 2021. Whilst many businesses will be prepared to 
hold collection activities whilst complaint are in process, this service cant insist they do so. 
As the default wasnt part of the complaint that Lex looked at when they issued their final 
response. If Mr S doesnt agree the default should have been added to his file hell need to 
raise that issue with Lex. If he remains dissatisfied with their response to that new complaint 
he can then refer it to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman