DRN-3401323
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain 
why.
Mr F acquired his car under a personal contract plan agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr F responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
I dont think it would be fair to suggest the initial collection of the vehicle was an inspection. 
MBFS have explained that this was merely a collection required because the car needed to 
be recovered. I think the actual inspection took place a few days after the car was collected.
Mr F accepted the charge for the damaged bumper, so I wont review that any further.
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that 
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied fairly and Ill use 
that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage in the inspection report and compared the 
damage to the BVRLA standard.
Rear lamp
The BVRLA say the lamp shouldnt be cracked or have a scratch that exceeds 25mm. I think 
the photographic evidence suggests the scratch is in excess of 25mm, so I think MBFS have 
been fair to make a charge to refurbish that item.
I think the photographs taken during collection also show that scratch was evident.
Quarter panel dent
The BVRLA say dents of up to 15mm in diameter are acceptable. I cant see a dent in the 
photograph, and I dont think it was therefore fair for MBFS to make a charge.
Wheel damage
The BVRLA say that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel are 
acceptable. I think the photographic evidence shows the damage to be in excess of that 
standard and I think it was therefore fair for MBFS to make a charge for refurbishment.
I understand that Mr F has suggested that damage could have occurred after the car was 
collected but I think there was much more chance that the damage would have happened in 
the extended period he had the car than in the very limited period between collection and 
inspection. I also note that the car was transported and not driven to the auction house and I 
think that makes it even more unlikely the damage would have happened in transit.
Putting things right
MBFS should remove the £35 charge they have asked Mr F to pay for refurbishment of the 
quarter panel.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to remove the charge theyve asked Mr F to pay for 
refurbishment of the quarter panel.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman