DRN-2794546
The complaint
Mr A and Mr H complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on their annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mr H were due to fly abroad on 8 May 2020. As part of their trip, theyd booked a 
stay in a hotel which Ill call K. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, their airline 
cancelled their pre-booked flights and so Mr A and Mr H had to cancel their holiday. They 
asked K for a refund of their accommodation costs. K said their booking was non-refundable. 
Instead, it offered them a credit voucher for the full value of their booking, which would be 
valid for 24 months from the date they were originally due to check-in. Mr A and Mr H didnt 
think theyd be able to use the credit voucher though, so they made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the costs of their hotel booking.
IPA turned down the claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As K had offered Mr A and Mr H a credit note for the full value of 
their booking; it said they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It also said the policy terms 
specifically excluded losses which could be recovered from elsewhere. It told Mr A and Mr H 
that if they were unhappy with Ks offer; theyd need to take it up with them. 
Mr A and Mr H were unhappy with IPAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr A and Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
as K had offered them a credit note, their losses had already been recovered. So she felt it 
was fair for IPA to turn down their claim. She also considered that as the credit note had 
been valid for around 24 months, its terms werent unfairly restrictive.
Mr A and Mr H disagreed. They pointed out that the investigator had referred to Ks voucher 
expiring in September 2022, which wasnt correct. They said that the voucher would only be 
valid until May 2022, which meant that they had less than a year to use it. With ongoing 
restrictions, they didnt think there was enough time for them to reasonably plan to make use 
of the voucher. They also pointed out that the cancellation and curtailment section of the 
policy provided cover if a policyholder was quarantined. They felt that theyd been effectively 
quarantined, given government restrictions which had applied at the time they were due to 
travel. So they felt their claim should be settled on this basis.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and Mr H, I think IPA has treated them 
fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr A and Mr Hs policy and the circumstances of their 
claim to decide whether IPA handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr A and Mr Hs contract 
with IPA. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for 
unused costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. The policy says:
We will pay you up to £2,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel 
and accommodation costs(including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip or one-way trip is 
necessary and unavoidable as a result of any of the following events (Bold is my 
emphasis).
One of the insured events listed is a policyholder becoming quarantined. In this case, 
theres no dispute that Mr A and Mr Hs holiday was cancelled as a result of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020 and the UK 
government imposing a national lockdown on 23 March 2020. The lockdown restrictions 
were still in place when Mr A and Mr Hs trip was cancelled.
So I can understand why Mr A and Mr H feel that IPA should pay their claim for their unused 
accommodation costs. But I think the cancellation section of the policy makes it clear that 
IPA will only cover irrecoverable losses. IPA hasnt included a definition of what it means by 
irrecoverable losses, so Ive considered the plain and ordinary meaning of the phrase. In my 
view, this mean a loss which is impossible to get back.
The policy terms also includes a list of things that IPA doesnt cover. One of these states that 
IPA wont pay for: any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the providers of the 
accommodation, their booking agents (or the administrators of either) or for which you 
receive or are expected to receive compensation or reimbursement. 
IPA says that as K has offered Mr A and Mr H a credit note for the full value of their 
accommodation; they havent suffered a financial loss which is covered by the policy. And I 
think the policy wording makes it clear that IPA doesnt cover costs which can be recovered 
from elsewhere. Ive seen a copy of an email from K. This states that the booking charge 
was applied in full when the hotel stay was booked and is 100% non-refundable. But it did 
offer a credit note for the full value of their booking for a change of dates, up to 24 months 
after their original check-in date  9 May 2020. This means their voucher with K is valid up 
until 9 May 2022.  So I think it was fair for IPA to conclude that Mr A and Mr H hadnt 
suffered a financial loss, because the credit note would cover the full value of their pre-
booked accommodation. 
As K offered Mr A and Mr H 24 months to make use of the credit note. I dont think its 
unreasonable for IPA to conclude that Mr A and Mr H might be in a position to use the credit 
note before it expires. And in my view, the terms of the credit note arent overly restrictive. I 
can understand why Mr A and Mr H might prefer to get a cash refund for their 
accommodation costs. Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently 
uncertain and I appreciate that theyve told us that they wont be a position to use the 
voucher. I do sympathise with their position and its open to them to get back in touch with 
their accommodation provider if theyre unhappy with the option its given them. But taking 
everything into account, I think it was fair for IPA to consider that Mr A and Mr H havent 
suffered a financial loss in the circumstances of this case. So I think it was fair for IPA to turn 
down their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman