DRN-3690725
The complaint
Ms M complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) mis-managed her 
account after she told it she was having financial difficulties as well as providing details of 
her health problems.
What happened
In October 2020, Ms M told Provident about her health problems and the fact she was no 
longer working. This contact appeared to have been with her agent through text messages. 
In December 2020 she emailed Provident and provided further details of her health 
problems.
Then in March 2021, after providing evidence of her health problems including letters from 
her GP, Provident emailed Ms M on 8 March 2021 to let her know it was suspending 
collection activity on the account.
There was then contacted between Providents collection department and Ms M. At this
point Ms M informed it that she was getting support and advice from a third-party debt
charity.
However, on 22 March 2021 Provident passed Ms Ms outstanding balance to a third-party
collection agency. At the time, Ms M wasnt told about the debt being sold. It was
only in October 2021 when she was trying to get her finances in order and working with
the debt advice charity that Provident told Ms M her debt had been passed to a third
party.
Provident then gave Ms M the details of the collection agency and the reference number
she would need. However, after contacting this third-party Ms M was told that not only
was this company not dealing with her debt, but the reference number was incorrect.
What followed were a series of emails and a couple of letters to Provident who
maintained that the debt was with the third party they had previously told her it was with.
Ms M then contacted the third party again, this time providing the medical evidence that
she had previously provided Provident.
Ms M at this point she says she was in a panic because she was trying to get her debts
sorted with the debt charity but wasnt able to as she didnt know who was responsible for
her debt  given the conflicting information she was being provided.
Ms M then received a letter form a different company  who in November 2021 explained
that it wasnt aware of Ms Ms health problems as it hadnt been informed of it by
Provident. Ms M says at this point she was worried and upset. She was having health
problems while at the same time trying to sort out a debt management plan. It turned out
this letter was sent by the parent company of debt collector who Provident signposted
Ms M towards.
In total, between the number of companies that Ms M was dealing with, she suggests that
shes sent close to 70 emails  although copies of all these emails havent been provided.
Overall, Ms M says that she is unhappy Provident didnt apologise for what has
happened, and that it shouldnt have passed her debt to a collection agency when it
agreed not to especially as it was aware of the mental health problems Ms M was having.
Ms M unhappy with what happened complained to Provident. It issued a final response
letter (FRL) on this matter dated 15 October 2021.
Provident explained that as payments werent being made in line with the payment
schedule it was within its rights to pass the loan balance to a third party. It went on to
explain that the third party would be able to help Ms M discuss a way forward to repaying
the outstanding balance. It apologised for what had happened but said it hadnt made an
error.
Unhappy with this response, Ms M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and he said it shouldnt be upheld. Its worth
saying here that the adjudicator provided a comprehensive overview of the timeline of events
and what Ms Ms complaint is about  so I wont repeat all that information in the decision.
But he did concluded:
The information Provident provided about which company was managing the loan 
balance was correct. Ms M did receive a letter from a different company, but this is 
the parent company and so part of the same organisation.
However, Provident wasnt able to say why the account was then passed to another 
company to manage Ms Ms debt.
Provident acknowledged that Ms M had provided it with details of the debt charity 
and had provided information about her mental health.
Ms Ms debt of £1,592.67 was written off by Provident and although he accepted that 
Provident couldve done more and a payment to reflect the trouble and upset could be 
argued, he thought the write off was enough and so Provident didnt need to pay any 
more compensation.
Provident didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Ms M disagreed with the outcome. In summary she said;
While Provident had written off the debt, it did this for all customers due to its
financial position. But this doesnt address the fact that it knew she was vulnerable
and still passed the account on anyways.
While the two collection companies may be linked, when Ms M emailed the company
who Provident said had the debt, she was told that it couldnt find a record of her
account.
It is clear, from the letter Ms M received from the parent company that the debt
collectors had no knowledge of her health problems.
Ms M asked for a copy of Providents procedures for dealing with vulnerable
customers but this hasnt and wasnt provided.
Ms M was upset about Provident suggestion that she was in some ways getting
better. When she has been through several assessments and has been found unfit
for work and all the incorrect information compounded this situation.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to decide.I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Ms Ms complaint. A copy of the findings from the provisional findings follow this in italics and 
a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything that has been provided by Provident and Ms M Ive decided
to uphold her complaint and Ive outlined my reasons below.
Overall, I do partly agree with the adjudicator, that Provident has written the debt off and that
does need to be considered. However, what I am looking at here is the distress and
inconvenience caused to Ms M as a result of the errors in dealing with her loan. Having
looked through everything there has clearly been a number of errors and in my view have
impacted Ms M and so, I think its fair an award is made for the distress and inconvenience
that has been caused.
Passing the debt to a third party
Ultimately, Provident, can if it wishes to pass an account to a third party. So, the act of doing
so isnt necessarily an error, but in this case, several things appear to have occurred that
shouldnt have happened.
Firstly, Provident was put on notice of Ms Ms health problems and it has accepted that it
had information given to it about this for example a copy of the Debt and Mental Health
evidence form which had been completed by Ms Ms doctor. It needed to consider this
information and take appropriate steps / actions to assist Ms M in repaying what was owed
(if this was appropriate).
So I find it concerning and perplexing as to why firstly, the account was passed to the third
party without actually telling Ms M this is what it had done. Especially considering what it
knew about her mental health and the fact that passing to the third party contracting the
information Ms M had been supplied around two weeks earlier  at the start of March 2021 
that being collection activity would be stopped.
Although she wasnt aware of this at the time, in November 2021 Ms M was told by the
parent company that although they were collecting the debt it wasnt told by Provident about
her health information. I do find this worrying. Ms M openly provided details to Provident
about her vulnerabilities and then knowing these, passed the account to a third party without
actually informing the third party of what it knew.
Provident has also been clear that it only passed on the accounts because the evidence
provided to its collection team:
was not sufficient to show Ms M [full name removed] has difficulties managing her
finances or the account should have been written off due to any medical issues
however, the account was passed to our central collections team. Due to the poor
repayment history, the account was then passed to [third party] to manage the
account. The debt was not sold, they were simply picking up the collections activity
on behalf Provident.
Later on, Provident also said:
We would, as part of the process, require up to date evidence showing the
customers inability to manage their finances at the time they were requesting the
write off of the account. I can see the debt and mental health form was from October
2019 which is prior to the account being passed collections.As you can see from the debt and mental health form, the doctor has confirmed there
was marked improvement which would not indicate a reason for writing the account
off. Presumably priority bills, council tax etc. were being paid by Ms M [full name
removed] at the time so would also indicate she could manage her finances.
Taking all these statements together, Ive had to think quite carefully about what this means
for Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M was clearly engaging with Provident from December 2020 when she emailed it about
her health problems and then provided all the information she was asked for. She was also
in contact with Provident in March 2021 when it said it would put a stay on collection activity.
If Provident needed further information, as it listed above to have considered a right off of the
balance at the time Im not sure why it wasnt asked for, as it seems that Ms M was in
communication with it as she understood the importance of trying to get this balance
resolved. I have seen nothing to suggest that Ms M wouldnt have engaged further with
Provident.
Provident accepts that it had a valid form completed by Ms Ms doctor dated October 2019
but it has said that as the form is noted as a marked improvement  in relation to Ms Ms
health, this is what some sort of justification why the account could be passed to a third
party.
Indeed, this form had been completed around 18 months before the account was given to the
third party and what wouldve in my view been entirely reasonable is to have asked Ms M for
an update, as her condition may have worsened or not improved. Of course, it may have
improved, but Provident had no way of knowing and this would be inconsistent with what
Ms M was telling it.
Clearly, Provident couldve and ought to have done more at this point in time before the
account was passed to the third party to decide whether that was the correct course of
action to take.
When Ms M then tried to contact the debt collection company that Provident told her had the
account (and reiterated in October 2021) using the correct reference number supplied by
Provident. She was then told by the company that it didnt hold an account for her to repay.
This wouldve understandably caused confusion for Ms M given she was being given
contradictory information about what was going on.
She then received contact from another debt collection company  a company Provident
says it didnt know were involved, which I think is worrying because Provident says that it
hadnt sold the debt  only passed it over. So, it remained the debt owner and I would
imagine it wouldve had some say or at least been told about what the debt company it had
asked to collect the money was doing.
Ms M then complaint to the parent company  at which point she was told that none of the
information about her vulnerability had been passed to it by Provident. Again, Im not sure
why Provident didnt tell the company this information because it had implications for how it
would contact and deal with Ms M.
Ive outlined below what I think Provident needs to do in order to put things right for Ms M.
How I propose Provident should put things right
Overall, writing off the debt was probably the right course of action to take. But, that doesnt
mean Ms M didnt experience distress and inconvenience due to the errors which have been
made, in my view, by Provident. As such, she is entitled to some compensation to recognise
the distress and inconvenience that she has suffered.
However, I do have to counter that with although the account may have been with the third
party since March 2021 when Ms M contacted Provident in October 2021 to let them knowabout the breathing space she was entering with the debt advice charity she clearly hadnt
been contacted by either Provident or the third party since March 2021. It isnt clear what
happened here or why there was no contact in this time.
However, after being told about the account being with a third-party Ms M made enquires
with it and was given contradictory and conflicting information. She wasnt told initially told
who the account was with and the third party was unaware of her health problems.
In my view, she has understandably been caused distress and inconvenience by Providents
actions. These, in my view have been made worse by the fact Provident knew of her health
problems months before the account was passed to the third party.
Having looked at everything, I consider that Providents actions provided poor
communication, didnt pass on to the third-party relevant information about Ms M and then
caused further confusion while Ms M was trying to get her finances in order. In my view, it
exacerbated what was already a difficult time for Ms M and importantly, it was on notice to
Ms Ms vulnerability and didnt appear to take any mitigating steps.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Ms M and Provident were asked to provide any further comments or evidence as soon 
as possible but in any event no later than 7 September 2022.
Provident didnt respond to the provisional decision.
 
Ms M emailed in to say that she accepted the findings of the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has accepted the findings of the provisional decision and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service hasnt heard from Provident. 
As no new comments or evidence have been provided, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in the provisional decision. So, Im still upholding Ms Ms complaint for the 
same reason and I still dont think Provident treated Ms M fairly when it passed her account 
to a third-party collection agency. 
Ive outlined below what Provident needs to do in order to put things right for Ms M. 
Putting things right
I consider it fair and reasonable that Ms M is paid, directly £300 for the trouble and upset 
that has been caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ms 
complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right for Ms M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman