DRN-3763182
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs H are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2019, Mr and Mrs H were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs H decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr and Mrs H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan; and
the savings on their electricity bills would provide enough income to cover the 
monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs H could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs H and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Just for YOU: Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Hs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs H, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr H has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Hs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Savings
Mr and Mrs H have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the savings on their energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Hs recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The quote states that the electricity savings Mr and Mrs H could expect from the system in 
the first year were £184.50 and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr 
and Mrs H, the combined income and savings in year one are shown as £223.86. This is 
shown in a table titled What will you earn and save per year?
This results in an average monthly income of £18.66. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £96.45. As a result, Im not able 
to conclude that Mr and Mrs H were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered 
by the savings on their energy bills.
Theres a section headed Your Agreement with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £96.45. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £99.04, but the difference  £2.59  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £96.45, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money to 
cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the savings Mr and Mrs H could expect to receive from the 
system, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan repayments. And it clearly sets 
out that the savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Hs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs H that the system would be self-funding. In doing 
so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £2.59 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson 
referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs H were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
Page 19 of the quote states that it would take 21 years for the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs H could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system. And page 16 has a 
table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 30 years. This too shows that it 
would take 21 years for the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs H could expect to receive to 
reach the cash price of the system, £9,436. The years of shortfall are highlighted in red, and 
the subsequent years in green.
(This table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £17,927, 
would be reached in year 28.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs H that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 21 years, and for the loan in about 28 years. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone 
on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mr and Mrs H.
Performance: energy generation
The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 3,094 kWh a year. I have looked 
at Mr and Mrs Hs electricity statements and can see that their system, on average, has 
generated 1,455 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in Mr and Mrs Hs original section 75 claim, and 
so I do not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this 
basis. Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr and Mrs H were told that the 
system was supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks 
answer was that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. 
Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was 
generating as much energy as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr and Mrs H are still not satisfied, they may 
bring a new complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to 
deal with that issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim under the Act.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr and Mrs Hs original section 75 claim did include a complaint to 
the effect that the system was misrepresented to them. So I have considered whether the 
estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs H havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs H could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs H entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs H 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman