DRN-4238577
The complaint
Mr C complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money unfairly registered a 
default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr C says he was in financial difficulties in 2022 and contacted 118 118 Money about those 
difficulties. He says there were a number of problems with an income and expenditure 
schedule but in September 2022 agreed what he thought was a short-term repayment plan. 
Mr C says despite agreeing the plan 118 118 Money continued with the default process and 
registered a default on his credit file. He says he has been caused distress and 
inconvenience and would like the default removed.
118 118 Money says it did make mistakes in dealing with Mr C before the account defaulted. 
It has apologised and says it paid £100 compensation. It also says it was entitled to default 
the account even if Mr C agreed a repayment plan as he had been in arrears for about three 
months at that point.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the compensation offer appropriate for the delay in setting up the plan but thought 
118 118 Money was entitled to default the account when there had been three months of 
arrears. The investigator didnt think Mr C had been told the default process would stop.
Mr C doesnt accept that view.
My provisional view
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said I came to the provisional view that 118 
118 Money had acted unfairly by registering a default on Mr Cs credit file in these 
circumstances.
I said there was no doubt that 118 118 Money didnt deal appropriately with Mr C before the 
key September 2022 telephone call. I could see that 118 118 Money had fairly apologised 
and paid £100 compensation. I was satisfied the compensation paid was fair and reasonable 
for that part of the complaint but didnt think that part of the complaint could be looked at in 
isolation and thought it clear the process in agreeing a repayment plan was delayed through 
no fault of Mr Cs.
I said that if 118 118 Money accepts as it did that it could have dealt more appropriately with 
Mr C in the months before issuing the default notices, then it difficult to see why it issued 
those notices in these circumstances. I appreciated there may have been a couple of 
months arrears, but I thought it clear that Mr C wanted to work with 118 118 Money to sort 
matters out.
I explained that The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provided guidance to a 
business and suggested a default should be issued between three and six months of arrears 
and where a relationship has broken down. I didnt think that the relationship between 118 
118 Money and Mr C had broken down in circumstances where they were discussing 
income/expenditure schedules and that it was clear Mr C wanted to repay his debt despite 
being in financial difficulties. This was not a case, I said, where for example Mr C ignored 
regulatory notices or failed to discuss his situation with the lender.
I said the key part of this complaint was the telephone call between the parties in September 
2022 after Mr C had been sent the default notice. I listened carefully to it, and I hoped 118 
118 Money would review it. The call is well over an hour long and Mr C provided all required 
information despite I thought large parts of the information having been previously provided 
to 118 118 Money. At the conclusion of the call, I was satisfied Mr C was told a six-month 
arrangement had been agreed and that if the plan breaks there will be a default He was 
also told collection will be suspended but the arrears would have a negative effect on Mr Cs 
credit file.
So, I was satisfied that Mr C was reasonably entitled to conclude from that telephone call 
that the default process would end and that to avoid a future default he needed to keep to 
the terms of the agreement. I couldnt see what else Mr C could have thought after going 
through that call and in 118 118 Money carrying out an in-depth financial assessment. I also 
couldnt see what point there would be in 118 118 Money carrying out that affordability 
exercise if all it wanted to do was default the account. I had no doubt Mr C would have 
thought the default process had ended but that the new arrangement would now be reported 
on his credit file. And during the call Mr C asked 118 118 Money if he was on a payment 
plan to which he was told yes.
I thought it likely that there had been a breakdown in communication within 118 118 Money 
and that the default process ought to have been paused or stopped when Mr C agreed the 
repayment plan. I was satisfied that throughout the process Mr C had engaged with 118 118 
Money and hadnt ignored the arrears. I was also satisfied that 118 118 Money was obliged 
to treat Mr C positively and sympathetically. I couldnt see that it had, in agreeing a 
repayment plan but defaulting the account at the same time. I was satisfied the point of a 
short-term repayment plan was to avoid a default and provide short term help.
I had no doubt Mr C was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of what took place. I 
couldnt see any evidence Mr C had been caused any financial loss and provisionally 
thought 118 118 Money should pay him £100 further compensation. I said the important part 
of this complaint was the default issue which should be removed from Mr Cs credit file. I 
hoped both sides would provide up to date information about the account and what is now 
being paid as no doubt the agreement had ended. I also hoped both sides confirm what was 
paid from September 2022 and if a new agreement had started.
Both sides have replied with my provisional view and agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
118 118 Money should remove the default from Mr Cs credit file and pay him £100 
compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Madison CF UK Limited trading as 
118 118 Money to remove the default from Mr Cs credit file and pay him £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman