DRN-3148143
The complaint
Miss L says Tickmill UK LTD (Tickmill) is responsible for over 300 margin call close-outs 
(and a total loss of around 44,000 EUR) incurred in her trading account(s) on 9 March 2020. 
She says a defect in Tickmills payment processing system prevented her from making a 
deposit into the account on 8 March 2020, which then led to the account breaching 
maintenance margin required for her open positions and led to the close-outs.  
What happened
 Miss L and Tickmill shared evidence with this service that included the following:
Correspondence from 4 March 2020 (and thereafter), when a technical payment 
processing problem caused a processing delay of eight hours to a deposit Miss L 
made; this was for 500 EUR and Tickmill accepted responsibility for the technical 
problem; on the same date Miss L also had a transfer payment (between her Tickmill 
accounts) which faced the same technical problem and the same length of delay; this 
was for 200 EUR and Tickmill accepted responsibility for this too.
Information on a total of 12 payment processing problems Miss L says she faced 
between May 2018 and March 2020 (including those of 4 March 2020 and the 
problem of 8 March 2020 she has complained about). In response to these problems, 
and as part of its reply to Miss Ls complaint about the 8 March problem, Tickmill said 
 
 there are a number of varied reasons why this has happened i.e. malfunction on 
your bank side, server delay between your bank and card processor, insufficient 
amount of funds etc. 
However  it was clear that you made a second attempt straightaway which was 
successful and the deposit was credited to your MT4 account.
To summarise, there were 2 instances were a delay was caused by Tickmill. The 
other instances in question, no funds were debited from your card and these issues 
are beyond our control.
I would therefore like to conclude my review to offer as a gesture of goodwill from 
Tickmill 100 EUR to be credited to your trading account for any inconvenience 
caused. This is a one off payment and we are not accepting any liability on our part.
Both parties also shared other complaint related correspondence.
Account activity evidence showing that other than around two close-outs between 
04:46 hours and 04:47 hours on 9 March, the rest of the close-outs in Miss Ls 
account on this date happened over around a minute between 04:49 hours and 04:50 
hours.
Confidential documentary evidence shared by Miss L to confirm that the card 
payment she made on 8 March was well funded and that there was even more 
funding on standby in order to make further payments to feed margin in the account if 
needed. In this respect, Miss L also shared information about her funding strategy 
and arrangements.
Correspondence from Miss Ls bank/card company confirming that after she 
submitted the payment on 8 March Tickmill had to make an authorization request, but 
no such request was made so the transaction could not be completed.
One of our investigators shared his initial thoughts with Tickmill. Overall, Tickmill disagreed 
with the initial views he expressed. In the main, the exchange was as follows:
The investigator said he was minded to conclude that it is likely Tickmills system had 
a fault in processing deposits into the account at the time (on 8 March).
The first reason he cited was what he considered to have been a similar issue arising 
previously on 4 March  he referred to this in terms of both the deposit and transfer 
payments that faced problems on this date. Tickmill argued that the issues on 4 and 
8 March were not similar; that the deposits were actually received on the former date 
and its system was at fault for the delay in processing them; Miss L incurred no 
financial loss from that incident; in contrast, no deposit was received on 8 March, so 
Tickmill was not responsible for the matter and responsibility lay between Miss Ls 
bank and the relevant Payment Service Provider (PSP).
The investigators second reason was that the card company had confirmed it did not 
decline the transaction and that Tickmill did not send an authorization request. 
Tickmill doubted this was the case and said it could see that the PSP recorded a 
rejection so it must have received a negative call-back from Miss Ls bank/card 
company.
The next reason given by the investigator was that there is screenshot evidence 
showing that the payment was pending and that this matched the other examples in 
which payments remained pending for a delayed period. In response, Tickmill said all 
unsuccessful deposit attempts are noted as pending on its system, in order to reflect 
that there has been a deposit attempt.
The investigator also put preliminary queries to Miss L, and to Tickmill, in terms of what was 
more likely (than not) to have happened if she was able to make the deposit she sought to 
make on 8 March  225 EUR  and how (if at all) that could have correlated with avoidance 
of the total loss that followed. 
Miss L referred to her margin monitoring strategy, her access to ample funds for this 
purpose, her attempt to apply the strategy on 8 March and how she was frustrated when the 
payment did not go through  in response to which she contacted Tickmill. Tickmill said, in 
broad terms, the deposit would have avoided the majority of the close-outs (and losses) but 
a few close-outs could still have taken place subsequently. Upon consideration, the 
investigators view was that whilst some close-outs, as described by Tickmill, could have 
been possible after the deposit payment there is evidence that Miss L could have supported 
her margin even further beyond this payment and she had the finances available to do so. 
He shared with Tickmill that he was minded to uphold the complaint and to ask it to 
compensate Miss L for  losses on trades closed which would have remained open had 
the 225 euros been successfully deposited.
The investigator proceeded to confirm a view in which he concluded that the complaint should be upheld and that Miss L should be compensation for  losses incurred on trades 
closed which would have otherwise remained open had her attempt to deposit €225.00 been 
successfully processed and that She should also be paid £400.00 redress for the trouble 
and upset she has experienced as a result of the error. He based this conclusion on broadly 
the same preliminary findings he had shared with Tickmill and he was not persuaded by its 
responses to those findings  highlighting that the payment remained pending on its system 
up to 22 March 2020 and its status does not appear to have changed to failed until 16 May 
2020; that evidence from the bank/card company was reliable; and that there was a lack of 
evidence that there was an error by Miss L or by the PSP in the process.
There is record of a telephone conversation between Miss L and the investigator in terms of 
the practical effect of the redress he proposed. She wrote in thereafter and objected to what 
she understood as a limited form of redress which, she said, did not cater for her losses. 
Tickmill disagreed with the investigators conclusion and stressed that it cannot fairly be held 
responsible for the processing of a deposit it never received.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly similar reasons. I uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
I note the points she has made about redress. She says she initially understood the redress 
proposal to mean compensation for her losses, but she then understood something not quite 
the same from her conversation with the investigator. I have taken the view that the 
investigators redress proposal  as quoted above, directly from his preliminary and 
concluding findings  is indeed compensation for Miss Ls losses in the matter, as she 
appears to have initially understood it to be. It is not clear if something different was said or 
perhaps misunderstood during the telephone conversation she has referred to, but the 
investigators written views clearly confirmed compensation as I have quoted above and that 
amounts to compensation for Miss Ls losses in the matter  which, as I set out further 
below, is also my finding.
I understand Tickmills objections to the idea of upholding the complaint. Its core position is 
that it cannot reasonably take responsibility for the processing of a deposit that it says never 
reached Tickmill  in other words, it says there was no deposit to process. In another case, 
this might be a credible argument but in this case the point that Tickmill appears to have 
missed is that if, as the balance of available evidence suggests, the deposit did not reach its 
system because it had not requested authorization for release of the payment, then that in 
itself is a responsibility it failed to discharge. 
The relevant bank/card company has confirmed that the payment submitted by Miss L on 8 
March awaited an authorization request from Tickmill that never happened. I too consider 
this evidence to be credible and I have seen no evidence that the relevant bank/card 
company has been untruthful about the matter. If Tickmills system was supposed to give it 
notice about this pending authorization request but failed to do so, that would have been part 
of its responsibility in the matter. It is not disputed that the system had twice already 
displayed payment processing faults four days earlier. I understand Tickmills argument that 
the fault related to delays in processing deposits that were actually received, however this 
does not automatically discount the possibility that the system fault  which Tickmill has not 
established was resolved prior to 8 March  could have worsened by 8 March to the extent of not prompting authorization requests in the first instance. 
Tickmill could argue that I do not have technical evidence to make a finding that the problem 
in its system as of 4 March worsened thereafter. I make no absolute technical finding in this 
respect, but it is reasonable to make a finding on the balance of probabilities and, as a basis 
for the finding, to reflect factual evidence that the authorization request that it should have 
made was not made and that it does not appear to have been aware of that at the time. It 
appears more likely (than not) that there was a defect in the system or process that should 
have made Tickmill aware of the pending authorization request at the time, but did not. 
The system clearly applies a distinction between payments that are pending and those that 
failed  hence the different respective status categories for either  and I do not find it 
credible that the word pending would have been used to describe all unsuccessful 
payments. Surely the word failed would have applied in this respect, otherwise it begs the 
question  when would it have applied? Furthermore, and as the investigator said, the 
payment of 8 March continued to have a pending status for weeks and, it appears, months. 
This  and the lack of notice about the authorization request  indicates to me that the 
system and/or process defect was more likely (than not) to have been deeper or wider than 
Tickmill considered at the time. Like the investigator, I have not seen evidence that the PSP 
or any third party shares or undertakes responsibility in this case.
Overall and on balance, I consider that Tickmills system/process had a defect that 
prevented proper authorization and processing of the deposit made by Miss L on 8 March; 
that she was in Tickmills hands at the time and could not mitigate the matter independently 
(she could not make deposits where the system was not accepting deposits); that Tickmill 
itself appears to have been in a position whereby it did not know how to resolve or mitigate 
the matter at the time; and that but for the deposit being hindered it would have been 
successfully processed and it would have fed the maintenance margin for Miss Ls open 
positions as she intended.
I am also satisfied with the balance of evidence that Miss L would have been in a position  
given her attention to the account at the time and in terms of her access to more than 
sufficient funds required to maintain margin  to manage margin in the account and to avoid 
any close-outs. Tickmill appears to accept that the majority of the close-outs that happened 
would have been avoided by the initial deposit she sought to make at the time. I consider it 
inconceivable that she would have stopped at that single deposit, unless she could do so 
safely. She was monitoring the account and had the ability (and finances) to continue 
funding the account to the extent that she needed to in order to sustain her open positions 
and I consider it more likely (than not) that, but for the problem she faced, she would have 
done that successfully.
Putting things right
It follows from my findings above that the close-outs (and losses) incurred by Miss L would 
probably have been avoided but for the deposit processing problem that Tickmill is 
responsible for. 
At the time of the events last year  and at the time of her initial complaint last year  Miss L 
asked for the reopening of the closed-out positions. I can understand why she made such a 
request, but Tickmill did not oblige her with that and over a year and a half has elapsed 
since. 
Fair compensation, at present, would be to put Miss L as close as possible to the position 
she would be in had she been able to fund her account and had the close-outs been 
avoided. It is not possible to replicate this precisely, because there are key unknown variables in terms of what would have happened thereafter  that is, it is not known precisely 
how the over 300 positions would have behaved and/or been managed thereafter and what 
outcomes they would have had. I consider that an attempt to draw a conclusion on this, with 
the benefit of hindsight that did not exist at the time, will be unsafe.
I am satisfied that a reasonable compromise is to address the damage to Miss L that is 
known, as a fact, to have happened. That is the close-outs that happened and the financial 
losses they crystallized/created. But for the payment problem that prevented her from 
funding the account, neither the close-outs nor the financial losses would have happened at 
the time, so she should be compensated for said financial losses. Available evidence is that 
these close-outs happened across Miss Ls four trading accounts.
I order Tickmill to calculate the total financial losses that arose from all the close-outs that 
happened in Miss Ls four trading accounts in the morning of 9 March 2020 (broadly 
between 04:46 hours and 04:51 hours, as set out in the activity statements for the accounts); 
I order Tickmill to pay Miss L the total of these financial losses as compensation; and I order 
Tickmill to provide Miss L with the calculation of this compensation payment in a clear and 
simple format. I also order Tickmill to pay Miss L the EUR equivalent of £400 for the trouble 
and upset the matter has caused her, including the trouble and upset she has faced in 
pursuing the matter over more than a year and a half.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ls complaint and I order Tickmill UK LTD to pay 
her compensation (including the trouble and upset award) as set out above, and to provide 
her with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman