The complaint
Ms G says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms G bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was not planning to uphold this complaint. 
Neither Ms G nor AXA responded by the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint for the following reasons.
Ms G signed on her application form for the PPI separately to where she signed to show she 
wanted the credit card. So, I think AXA made Ms G aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms G so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ms G doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying 
it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Gs comments, including what shes said her sick pay and 
savings. But these points dont change my conclusion. Ms G told AXA she had three months 
full sick pay and no savings. But she told us she had six months full sick pay followed by six 
months half sick pay, and savings of about six months of her salary  an amount she says 
she always held in reserve. 
Ms G says the information she provided to AXA initially was a mistake and was about 
another employer on a different claim. But shes not provided any additional evidence of her 
sick pay or savings. The level is sick pay seems high considering the type of work and that 
shed only been with her employer for about six months. And that she told AXA she had no 
savings doesnt tally with her telling us that she always had a certain amount. So, I dont 
DRN-1926376think I can accept the information shes given us without some documentary evidence to 
support it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not planning to uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman