DRN-1769850
The complaint
This complaints about a re-mortgage transaction Mrs and Mr K tried to make with Charter 
Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages. The application - which was 
made through Mrs and Mr Ks broker (whom Ill call G) - didnt go ahead and Mrs and Mr K 
eventually obtained the mortgage elsewhere. Mrs and Mr K, represented in the complaint by 
G, are seeking compensation for how Precise handled the application.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instructions from either party to the complaint.
The case is more straightforward than it might first appear. I dont have to decide if Precise 
fell short of its obligations to Mrs and Mr K. Its already accepted that it did, and offered 
redress. What I have to decide here is if Precises offer is fair in all the circumstances, or if 
more is due. 
Before the case came to us, Precise had already refunded what would normally be 
considered non-refundable charges in connection with the application; for example, the 
valuation and application assessment fee. These added up to £525, and with Precise also 
paying Mr and Mrs £50 compensation, our investigator considered the total of £575 fair 
redress overall. 
But he did also conclude that Precise should remove a hard (that is, visible to other parties) 
credit search from Mrs and Mr Ks credit files, after identifying the possibility that Precise 
may have suggested G submit the application in the wrong manner.
Precise agreed to remove the search and confirmed when it had done so. G initially 
accepted the recommended settlement too on behalf of Mrs and Mr K; he changed his mind 
when he realised that the investigator wasnt proposing Precise pay a further £575. 
I appreciate Gs sense of grievance on Mrs and Mr Ks behalf, and how strongly he feels it. 
Thats reflected in G having initially sought compensation of £1,250 of his own for the time 
hes spent dealing with the case. He withdrew that after we explained that hes not the 
complainant and we cant consider how he was affected.
But taking a step back and looking at the case independently (as Im required to do) I agree 
with our investigator that what Precise has already done is fair in all the circumstances. Itd 
refunded fees that wouldnt normally be refundable; that removed any costs Mrs and Mr K 
incurred for the abortive application, so any new costs they incurred for the subsequent 
application arent losses. With Precise having now removed the search from Mrs and Mr Ks 
credit files, Im satisfied on balance that no lingering harm has been done to them. 
Mrs and Mr K were put to some inconvenience and delay in obtaining their re-mortgage, but 
I consider the refunds and compensation theyve already received from Precise to be 
sufficient redress. If no offer had been made, I would not have awarded more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman