DRN-3063909
The complaint
Mr C complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (Likely Loans) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr C was given a loan by Likely Loans. It was for £2000 and was due to be repaid over 24 
months. Mr C took this loan out in January 2019 and the monthly repayment would be 
£158.50.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the
checks Likely Loans had carried out had been proportionate. She also concluded that it had 
made a fair lending decision.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He said Likely Loans was irresponsible to lend to him 
at that time.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Likely Loans gave these loans to Mr C required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In 
practice this meant that Likely Loans had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr C undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of any repayments on Mr C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr C.
Likely Loans gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr C 
about his income and expenditure. It used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess 
his living expenses. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out his credit 
commitments. 
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with Likely Loans. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years for £158.50. This represented a sizable 
proportion of Mr Cs monthly income. So, I think it is right that Likely Loans wanted to gather, 
and independently check (through the credit search), some information about Mr Cs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved 
that aim. I think on balance its checks were proportionate. It was Mr Cs first loan with Likely 
Loans and based on what it gathered, I think it was enough information in order to inform its 
decision to lend on this occasion. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Likely Loans gathered from Mr C to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be 
given the loan.
I can see that Likely Loans had calculated Mr Cs income to be £954.94. It recorded down 
his living expenses to be £552.66 using ONS data and after it took into consideration his 
credit commitments and the loan repayment, it could see that his disposable income would 
be around £100. I have checked the credit search results that Likely Loans would have had 
in front of it. The results were basic but didnt show any thing that would have caused it 
concerns. From the information it gathered from its checks, I think it would have been 
apparent to Likely Loans that the loan was affordable and there was nothing that it would 
have had in front of it that would have shown it Mr C was struggling to manage his finances. 
Or anything that would have given it concerns that he couldnt repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
So, overall, I think Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks. In addition, with the 
information it had in front of it, I think it also made a fair decision to lend. So, I dont think 
Likely Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr C. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman