DRN-4157174
The complaint
Miss M and Ms P complain about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
handled and settled a claim they made under their home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Miss M and Ms P held a household insurance policy that was provided by Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV). 
In late February 2022, Miss M and Ms P say their property suffered damage to their single 
storey tiled roof and water ingress because of a storm. They say this resulted in internal 
damage being caused to their kitchen walls, ceiling and some kitchen units.
Miss M and Ms P reported their claim to LV and provided a quote for the cost of repairs from 
a tradesman theyd independently approached. LV reviewed the quotation but thought it was 
too high. So, on 1 June 2022, it appointed a contractor (D) to attend Miss M and Ms Ps 
property to validate the claim and provide an opinion on the cause of damage. It 
communicated this decision with Miss M and Ms P the same day.
D visited Miss M and Ms Ps property on 16 June 2022 to undertake an inspection. After this 
visit D submitted images and a report to LV.  
When D reported to LV, it stated that the damage and water ingress had been caused by 
poor workmanship to the roof. It thought the damage wouldnt have been happened had the 
roof been installed correctly and adverse weather conditions had highlighted the roofs pre-
existing condition. 
LV declined Miss M and Ms Ps claim based on Ds opinion  it said the storm wasnt the 
dominant cause of the damage because this was due to faulty workmanship, which was a 
general exclusion within the policy. 
Miss M and Ms P werent happy with the outcome. They said thered been unnecessary 
delay in D attending their property, which had caused the damage to worsen. They thought 
Ds inspection of the roof was superficial and disputed its opinion on the cause of the 
damage, stating the condition of the roof had been good prior to the February storm. Miss M 
and Ms P also stated their claim hadnt been proactively managed by LV and complained.
LV investigated Miss M and Ms Ps concerns and issued its final response on 4 October 
2022. It maintained that the damage reported hadnt been caused by a one-off storm event. 
So, it didnt uphold Miss M and Ms Ps complaint about the way it had settled this claim. 
Being dissatisfied with how LV had dealt with their complaint Miss M and Ms P referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended partially 
upholding this complaint. They were persuaded that LV had correctly declined the storm 
claim but thought the claim could have been handled more proactively. So, they asked LV to 
pay Miss M and Ms P £100 compensation to recognised the delay theyd experienced.
LV agreed with our investigators assessment of this complaint. But Miss M and Ms P didnt 
and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Miss M, Ms P and LV that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Id like to thank Miss M, Ms P and LV for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Ive read and considered all the information provided and if I havent 
specifically referred to a point made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will 
focus on what I think are the key issues namely whether LV acted reasonably in handling 
and determining this claim.
Here, theres no dispute that damage occurred to Miss M and Ms Ps property. However, 
theres disagreement between them, LV and its agent as to the cause of the damage and the 
correct outcome of the claim.
Miss M and Ms Ps policy with LV provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils 
that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for 
a claim to be successful, the onus rests on Miss M and Ms P to show that the damage they 
reported was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Miss M and Ms Ps complaint with these three questions in mind. The 
answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend that 
a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Miss M and Ms Ps policy doesnt define the 
word storm. This isnt unusual and this service takes the view that a storm generally 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
LV doesnt dispute Miss M and Ms Ps contention that there was a storm in late February 
2022. I can therefore answer question one affirmatively without assessing whether the 
weather recorded at around the time the damage occurred meets what wed consider to be a 
storm.
In considering question two, Im satisfied that damage to a roof and consequent water 
ingress is consistent with what we would normally consider to be storm damage. And Im 
satisfied, overall, this type of damage is something that our service has, on occasion, seen 
following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.Ill turn now to the issue of whether I think the storm was the main cause of the damage in 
this instance.
LV has argued that the main cause of damage was poor workmanship to the roof as a result 
of its incorrect installation. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, LV relied on 
Ds report in repudiating this claim.
Ive carefully considered Ds report, which includes images taken of the exterior of Miss M 
and Ms Ps property. Miss M and Ms P have questioned the thoroughness of Ds inspection. 
But I can see that there were a variety of images taken of the relevant areas of the roof. In 
order to photograph areas of the roof, D must have accessed it. Its clear from the content of 
Ds report that D undertook an appropriate and adequate inspection of Miss M and Ms Ps 
property. 
A correctly installed tiled roof should withstand adverse weather. Miss M and Ms P have told 
our service their property was extended around 5 years before the storm. So, the age of the 
roof at the time of damage was approximately 5 years. Id expect a tiled roof to last a lot 
longer than that if it had been properly erected or installed.
Miss M and Ms P contend that the condition of their roof was good and correctly installed. 
But D disputes this. Within its report, D has comprehensively explained how it thinks the 
damage took place and where the defects lie. 
D stated that the roof line doesnt look square as it adjoins the main house and the 
guttering has a back fall. It said there were approximately 60 tiles missing from the roof and 
identified visible defects within the rainwater valley, the flashing around the velux window, 
the mortar around the soil stack and the flashing around the boiler flue. 
The images Ive seen show the defects D identified and that there have been several repair 
attempts prior to the site visit. These defects havent been caused by a storm. And, 
impartially, I think the photographs support Ds view that the roof wasnt properly installed 
and that the water ingress was due to poor workmanship to the roof. Because theres 
evidence of repair work, Im persuaded Miss M and Ms P were aware their roof was faulty in 
places.
LV has shared records from Miss M and Ms Ps home emergency provider, which confirm 
that there have been several calls outs due to problems with the roof leaking prior to 
February 2022. 
For example, on 4 December 2021, Miss M and Ms P reported a leak from their roof. A 
contractor attending their home subsequently informed LV that the leak had been caused by 
incorrect installation of the roof and they undertook a temporary repair using flashband to 
form a temporary seal. 
On 26 December 2021, records show that Miss M and Ms P suffered further damage to their 
home following leaks around the flue pipe and valley skylight in the roof. This is identified as 
being due to wear and tear and in need of a full repair. 
Some of the repairs undertaken by Miss M and Ms Ps home emergency provider can be 
seen on the photographs D took. And this all supports Ds view that the issues Miss M and 
Ms P experienced with their roof in February 2022 were pre-existing and that they had 
knowledge of the problems with their roof.
Its clear there was significant damage after a storm at the end of February 2022 and this is 
accepted by LV. But, based on the evidence Ive assessed, I think the storm, most likely, highlighted the existing defects, and poor workmanship, to the roof. And this explains why 
there was water ingress each time there was wind-driven, or heavy, rain. It follows that Im 
satisfied the internal and external damage to Miss M and Ms Ps property wasnt caused by 
a one-off storm event. 
Under the terms of Miss M and Ms Ps policy, loss or damage caused by poor workmanship 
is specifically excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because 
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something that requires maintenance or 
must be remedied due to faulty installation isnt unforeseen. 
Overall, I dont think LV made an error in attributing the cause of the damage here to poor 
workmanship to the roof. As this is something that isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Miss M and Ms Ps insurance policy I cant fairly ask LV to approve this claim. 
While Im satisfied that LV correctly assessed Miss M and Ms Ps claim, I do think there were 
aspects of poor service, which led to a delay in the progression of this claim. Ill explain why.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Miss M and Ms P reported their claim to LV 
shortly after the damage their property suffered in February 2022. But D wasnt instructed to 
validate the claim and provide a cause of damage opinion until over 3 months later. And Ds 
site visit didnt taken place until over 2 weeks after it was instructed to attend Miss M and Ms 
Ps property. This all led to delay in the determination of the claim, which is bound to have 
caused additional distress and inconvenience to Miss M and Ms P.
Like our investigator, Im persuaded LV ought to pay compensation to recognise the impact 
delay would have had on Miss M and Ms P. We arent here to punish businesses and, 
having thought very carefully about the trouble and upset that Miss M and Ms P would have 
experienced, Im persuaded that £100 compensation is fair. This sum is consistent with our 
approach in similar scenarios and its what Id have suggested had no offer been 
recommended by our investigator. LV should therefore compensate Miss M and Ms P for 
poor service by paying them £100.
Miss M and Ms P told our service that, as a result of delays in the progression of their claim, 
the damage to their property worsened. I havent seen any evidence to prove this happened. 
But I can see that LV were asked to consider a claim for accidental damage to the property 
interior. However, as the excess exceeds the cost of repair this isnt a viable option. And Ive 
already explained why I cant direct LV to meet the claim for interior damage because it 
hasnt been caused by damage to the roof by a storm. So, I cant take that issue any further 
forward for Miss M and Ms P.
I know Miss M and Ms P will be disappointed with this decision. I appreciate the reasons why 
they brought their complaint to our service. But this brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve their dispute with LV informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Miss M and 
Ms P any further with this.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, Im directing LV to pay Miss M and Ms P £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset they would have experienced due to delays in the 
progression of their claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Im directing Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to resolve this complaint by paying Miss M and Ms P £100 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman