DRN-3352650
The complaint
Mr M complains that Motability Operations Limited (MO) unfairly ended a hire agreement for 
a car to assist him with his mobility. He complains too that MO wont renew the agreement. 
He is represented by his mother, Mrs K.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr M entered into a three-year hire agreement with MO. MO runs a scheme 
under which it provides cars and other vehicles to individuals such as Mr M who are in 
receipt of Government-funded mobility allowances. They can be used by the recipients 
themselves or by their carers. Payments under the scheme are made by diversion of the 
relevant government allowances to MO. 
In or about October 2019 the police seized and impounded Mr Ms car. It had been driven by 
a relative of Mr M, who was not insured to do so. Mrs K explained that the car had been 
taken without consent, although it does not appear that the relative was prosecuted. Mrs K 
also said that the person who had taken the car was no longer at the same address, so there 
was little risk that it would happen again. MO agreed therefore that Mr M could continue to 
use the car. 
The car was however seized again in June 2021. The reason this time was that Mr M had 
acquired more than 12 penalty points on his driving licence and was therefore banned from 
driving. He said that he had not been living at the address on the licence and had not 
therefore been receiving correspondence about the offences which led to the penalty points. 
Following the second seizure of the car, MO sent Mr M a termination notice, ending the hire 
agreement. It also indicated that he would not be able to re-join the scheme for a further five 
years  that is, until June 2026. 
Mrs K complained on Mr Ms behalf about MOs decision, but it was not prepared to change 
it. Mrs K referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. He was satisfied however that MO had been within its rights to end the 
agreement. Mrs K asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr Ks car was seized by the police on two occasions. On the first 
occasion, MO accepted the explanation provided and agreed that Mr M could continue to 
use the car. But on the second occasion, the seizure was entirely the result of Mr Ms 
actions. 
Clause 15 of the hire agreement set out the circumstances in which MO could end the 
agreement. They included, at clause 15.1.5, the seizure or threatened seizure of the car. 
There is therefore no basis on which I can reasonably conclude that MO was not within its 
rights to act as it did. 
Mr M complains as well that MO will not allow him to take another vehicle for five years. MO 
says that is in line with its usual policy and that there is no reason to make an exception in 
this case. It says, and I accept, that it has treated Mr M in the same way it would any other 
customer in similar circumstances. 
Generally, it is for financial businesses to decide whether or not they wish to do business or 
continue to do business with any particular customer, and this service will not usually 
interfere with that decision. I see no reason to do so in this case. In the circumstances, MOs 
conclusion that it will not allow Mr M to enter into a new agreement appears reasonable to 
me.        
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Motability Operations Limited to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman