DRN-3624997
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Miss L holds that is now owned by Target Servicing 
Limited (TSL). Shes unhappy that the balance figures on her account with TSL dont match 
those used by the original lender before it was transferred to TSL.  She has also disputed 
the amount of the original loan at the outset.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss L and TSL. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our decisions are published, and 
its important that I dont include any information that might result in Miss L being identified. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
When the case came to us, our investigator didnt think we could consider whether the 
original amount lend was correct or not. He thought Miss L had waited too long under our 
rules to bring that part of the complaint. As for the accounting since TSL took the loan over, 
the investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss L asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
It appears Ms L is no longer contesting the point about the original amount lent being wrong, 
but for completeness, I will confirm that I agree with our investigator that this element of the 
complaint falls outside the time limits in our rules. Miss L raised the complaint more than six 
years after the loan started. Im also satisfied Miss L raised the complaint more than three 
years after she knew or ought reasonably to have known she had a reason to complain that 
the opening balance of the loan might be wrong.
As far as the rest of the complaint is concerned. Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
I appreciate Miss L is frustrated at not being able to satisfy himself that her loan balance has 
been calculated correctly since TSL took it over. But not being sure if things are correct isnt 
the same as having good reason to believe they are incorrect; and Miss L hasnt provided 
any substantive evidence that would cause me to think TSLs accounting is wrong.
But that doesnt mean Miss L has to take TSLs word that everything is correct. If Miss L has 
a real and substantive belief (based on something other than her frustration at not being able 
to reconcile and verify things herself) that her account isnt right, it is open to Miss L to 
arrange for the account to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the latter point because TSL would need to be 
presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond 
to it. 
Miss L would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to her 
detriment, we would then expect TSL to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as well 
as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, the 
available evidence doesnt give me reason to think that TSL has made substantive 
accounting errors on Miss Ls secured loan account. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman