DRN-3083662
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt provide him with the lifestyle benefit that he was 
entitled to when he opened his current account.
What happened
Mr C opened an account with Lloyds in October 2019. The account was advertised as 
coming with a lifestyle benefit and Mr C chose to receive membership to a club that would 
provide discounts at certain venues. Mr C says the discount card was never provided and 
although he raised this on several occasions Lloyds still didnt provide him with the 
membership and discount card.
Mr C says he has missed out on receiving the discount on numerous occasions and has 
spent time trying to get the issue sorted. He wants compensation for this.
Lloyds says that Mr C complained to it about not receiving the discount card in February 
2020. It says it called him to discuss his complaint but Mr C refused to go through security 
and so it used the information available at that time and upheld his complaint. It apologised 
for the delay in Mr C receiving the card and re-ordered this for him. It paid Mr C £75 for the 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Lloyds says that Mr C then contacted it again to say the card still hadnt arrived. It 
apologised and explained that the card had been requested. It then gave Mr C the details of 
the discount card provider so that he could contact it to get his membership number which 
he could then use to download an app so he wouldnt need the card. It paid Mr C a further 
£50 for the distress and inconvenient caused.
Lloyds says that Mr C contacted it on further occasions about this issue. However it said that 
it had done enough to assist Mr C by providing him with a way of accessing his membership 
and paying him a total of £125 compensation. 
Mr C didnt agree that Lloyds had done enough to resolve his complaint and referred it to this 
service.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly. He noted the 
distress and inconvenience this issue had caused Mr C but also that Lloyds had requested 
the card from the supplier on several occasions and when this wasnt resolving the issue 
provided Mr C with details of how to get his membership number and the discount app. 
Given this he thought a total compensation of £125 was reasonable. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He said the compensation paid to date didnt 
make up for the loss of the discount and the time he has spent sending emails, making calls, 
and visiting the branch. He reiterated that his membership still hadnt been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C opened an account with Lloyds in October 2019 which entitled him to choose a lifestyle 
benefit. Mr C chose to become a member of a club that would provide him with discounts at 
certain venues. Mr C didnt receive the membership card and so wasnt able to access the 
discounts. I can understand how upsetting this must have been.
Mr C has said the account was mis-sold. Having considered the information provided, I do 
not find that this was the case. Lloyds has never disputed that Mr C should have received 
the membership he opted for and has shown that the membership card was ordered and 
issued to Mr C. The problem is that the card was not received.
Mr C contacted Lloyds on several occasions about not receiving his membership card. I 
appreciate this will have caused him inconvenience and distress. Mr C doesnt think that 
Lloyds has done enough to resolve his complaint and I can understand how frustrating this 
issue has been and note the extended period over which he has been dealing with this. 
However, in this case I find that Lloyds has treated Mr C fairly. I say this because when it 
was made aware that Mr C hadnt received his membership card it re-ordered this. It also 
checked the address details to ensure there werent issues in where the card was being 
sent. As the issue continued and the address details had been checked, it provided Mr C 
with a remedy to enable him to access his benefits from the membership by contacting the 
supplier directly. I have nothing to say that Mr C was unable to make this contact and I think 
had this happened and been successful it would have resolved the issue.
I appreciate that Mr C has spent time raising the issue about the card not being sent. But as 
Lloyds has taken action to re-order the card and then provided an alternative way to access 
the benefits, I think the £125 that it has paid for the distress and inconvenience Mr C has 
experienced is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has done enough in response to Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman