The complaint
Ms O complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited failed to return 
her identification documents by international signed for post, and her passport was lost or 
stolen in transit. 
What happened
Ms O had a pension policy with Sun Life. To redeem it, she needed to send identification 
documents to Sun Life. So Ms O sent her passport, birth certificate, a utility bill, and financial 
statements to Sun Life. She sent the items to Sun Life by post using a signed for service. 
She asked Sun Life to return them the same way.
When Ms O received her documents back in the post, the envelope had been opened and 
her passport was missing. She complained to Sun Life because they hadn't sent the letter to 
her by signed for delivery as they were supposed to.
Sun Life agreed that they hadn't sent the post by an international signed for service, which is 
what was required because Ms O lived in Ireland. Sun Life apologised and paid Ms O  €200 
compensation to cover the inconvenience of replacing her passport.
Ms O wasn't happy that this outcome reflected the anxiety she continued to suffer because 
of her ongoing fear of identity theft whilst her missing passport was still valid for a few 
years. So she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered her complaint. He thought that the compensation that Sun Life 
had already paid reflected the trouble and upset to Ms O in having to replace her passport. 
He didn't think that it recognised her anxiety about identity theft. So he suggested that Sun 
Life pay an additional €300 to cover the cost of getting monthly credit checks for four years 
to provide her with peace of mind that no financial applications had been made in her name.
Sun Life accepted this suggestion, but Ms O didn't and asked for her case to be referred to 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O was understandably nervous about sending her passport in the post. Sun Life's 
guidance to overseas customers said "if you send us originals, use a signed-for service to 
keep them safe. We will send them back the same way". Whilst Ms O did all she could to 
DRN-1757364ensure the safe delivery of her documents, Sun Life acknowledged they didn't do what they 
should have. So they have some responsibility that Ms O didn't receive her documents 
safely.
Ms O complained that Sun Life phoned her up to try to deal with her complaint straight away. 
Up until then her correspondence with them had been in writing. She felt this put pressure on 
her to accept their resolution. Sun Life say they were trying to resolve things quickly for her. 
Given the immediate impact of what happened, I don't think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Sun Life to phone Ms O to try to address her concerns quickly. I think that accepting 
responsibility and compensating her for the cost and inconvenience of replacing her 
passport was a fair and reasonable thing to do. 
I've considered what I think would be a fair way for Sun Life to put things right for failing to 
return Ms O's documents in the right way. Ms O would have suffered an indirect financial 
loss because she had to replace her passport. Ms O has told us that replacing the passport 
was in fact the least of her concerns though. The €200 compensation Sun Life paid Ms O 
covered the costs and I think it was a fair and reasonable way to deal with that.
Ms O described having been caused a lot of worry about identity theft. She argues, quite 
reasonably, that whoever took her passport from the envelope would also have had sight of 
her other identification documents in the letter. Her passport still had four years left to run on 
it and Ms O explained that would be four years of worry about her identity being used. This 
was clearly the main issue for Ms O which I don't think the initial compensation of €200 
addressed.
I've seen that Sun Life offered to pay for Ms O to get a credit reference check with 
Experian Ireland. I think that this was a fair suggestion and could have provided Ms O with 
some reassurance that her details hadn't been fraudulently used for any financial application 
at that point. Ms O was worried about the ongoing risk though. So I think it would be 
reasonable that she may want to periodically check her credit file for peace of mind. 
Sun Life say the cost of a credit check with Experian Ireland was €6.35 per request. So a 
compensation award of a further €300 would allow Ms O to obtain a monthly check this way 
if she wished. I have seen that Sun Life agreed with this suggestion. Whether Ms O decides 
to use this service or one of the non charging credit check options in Ireland, she will still be 
put to an ongoing degree of inconvenience to do this. So I think that this award is a fair and 
reasonable way to compensate for that ongoing worry and inconvenience.
Ms O explained that she had to see a cardiologist as a result of a heart condition that was 
brought on by the anxiety of this complaint. She also explained how this ill health prevented 
her from taking up an employment opportunity. I was sorry to see this. In considering how to 
put things right though I need to carefully consider if it is fair to say Sun Lifes mistake 
caused her ill health. I don't think it would be fair to say that the loss of her passport was 
likely to be the sole, or even main cause, of this condition. So I won't be asking Sun Life to 
do anything further because of Ms O's deteriorating health or lost employment opportunity.
My final decision
I uphold Ms O's complaint, and instruct 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay Ms O a further €300 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.Gary Lane
Ombudsman