DRN-2955952
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc has increased the cost of his pet lifetime 
insurance policy overtime.
What happened
Mr H purchased a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2009 to cover his pet dog. The policy is 
underwritten by AXA but sold by a broker (Company A). The broker is responsible for the 
sale of the policy as well as the administration of it. This is all provided under the brand of 
another company brand who Ill refer to as Company B.
The policy has renewed each year since inception and the cost has increased almost every 
year. These increases have become more significant in recent years with Mr H first 
complaining about the price increases in 2018.
In 2019 after receiving his renewal invite and seeing another significant increase in the cost 
of his policy, Mr H complained about the cost of his insurance again. He felt the increase in 
price was unfair and that the price was deliberately intended to put him off renewing. 
Mr H also complained about AXA failing to provide him with enough information about 
changes it made to the policy in the background. In 2013 AXA withdrew from the lifetime pet 
insurance market but kept in place the policy Mr H had under the brand of Company B. But 
in 2018 it made the decision to close this book to new customers too. Mr H feels this has 
impacted the cost of his insurance and he lost the opportunity to change providers.
Our investigator looked at Mr Hs complaint and didnt think AXA had acted unfairly. She said 
the price increases applied to Mr Hs policy looked to be correct. So despite the price of the 
policy increasing significantly from when it was first taken out to now, she didnt think AXA 
needed to do anything else.
She also didnt think AXA needed to inform Mr H of the background changes made with its 
business model or when it closed the book his insurance is on to new business. She said 
this was a commercial decision it was entitled to make and as the policy remained in place 
with the same cover, she didnt think it needed to provide notice of the changes.
Mr H disagreed. He feels the changes made by AXA have directly contributed to the cost of 
his insurance now. He believes he should have been provided notice by AXA, Company A or 
Company B. He believes all three parties have failed him when this didnt happen. A 
separate complaint has been brought against Company A as the broker which considers 
this.
As Mr H didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint in two parts. Firstly, whether or not AXA has treated him 
fairly when increasing the cost of his policy. And secondly to consider whether I feel it should 
have done more to notify him of the wider changes made to its business model.
Price increases:
When Mr H first purchased his insurance it cost less than £150.00 for the year. In 2019 the 
renewal price quoted was just over £750.00 and this cost increased to over £1000.00 in 
2020. Its understandable to see why Mr H is shocked by the increases in price and is 
questioning whether hes been treated fairly. In total Mr H has paid £2683.07 for his policy 
up until 2019. 
The policy Mr H has is a lifetime policy and these are often more expensive than standard 
policies as they provide a greater level of cover. A primary benefit is that any condition 
developed once on risk remains covered for the lifetime of the policy. As pets get older, 
claims on the policy increase and veterinary and medical expenses increase, its likely the 
cost of the insurance will increase and these increases can be relatively steep from year to 
year. And importantly theres no limit on how high the cost could be. 
AXA didnt sell the policy to Mr H, Company A was responsible for the sale and this has 
been considered separately, but it is responsible for the changes in price as the underwriter, 
so Ive considered whether its acted fairly when applying the increases it has. AXA has 
provided us a breakdown of how Mr Hs premium has been calculated each year. This 
information includes the different rating factors applied for Mr H and his pet dog. I cant share 
this information with Mr H as its commercially sensitive but Ive seen that AXA has applied 
the correct ratings to Mr Hs policy each year to reflect its view of the risk insured.  
Mr H has made a claim on his policy each year from 2014 onwards. In total up until 2019 the 
claims value totalled just over £7000.00. The effect of these claims as well as his dog getting 
older each year has meant the cost has increased significantly each year. But as the prices 
have been applied to reflect the view of the risk and this changing based on whats 
happened, Im satisfied that AXA has treated Mr H fairly with the price its offered for the 
insurance each year. Because of this I dont think AXA needs to do anything differently with 
Mr Hs lifetime pet insurance policy.
The notice of background changes:
Ive considered whether I think AXA should have done more to notify Mr H of the changes it 
made in 2013 and 2018.
The policy was sold and administered by Company A and this issue has also been 
considered against it as Ive mentioned.  The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  
(ICOBs) sets out the obligations on an insurer when selling a policy. Company A as the 
seller were responsible for this as it dealt directly with Mr H and this has been considered 
under the separate complaint.
Mr H has asked whether AXA had an agreement with Company A or Company B which 
prohibited either business from updating him about the changes AXA made. AXA has said 
there was no restriction and Ive not seen anywhere that this was the case from the 
information provided. And AXAs withdrawal from the pet insurance market was detailed in 
the media in 2013 so I think its unlikely AXA would have actively tried to stop Company A or 
Company B from sharing this.  Insurers change their view of risk regularly as the learn more about the factors which it feels 
affect the insured item. These changes happen in the background without notice or a 
requirement of notice needing to be given to the insured. Ultimately the insurer will 
determine what level of risk it is willing to take on and the price it feels it needs to charge to 
cover this. 
The changes made by AXA were made as it learnt more about the market it insured. It took 
a commercial decision to change its view and took steps to reduce the involvement it had in 
the market. So the fact the book has now closed is no different to a normal change in the 
view of the risk which could have a negative or positive impact on the cost of the insurance 
for the insured. I understand the frustration Mr H has with not being provided with this 
information directly, but I dont think it is reasonable to expect AXA to update its consumers 
proactively every time it makes a decision which changes its background view of the risk its 
insuring. I think its applied the changes consistently and acted fairly by working with 
Company A to reduce the impact of these changes and ensure the level of cover remains in 
place for consumer..  
Overall I dont think AXA has acted unfairly with how it has priced Mr Hs policy. Nor do I 
think its done anything wrong when it failed to update him about the changes it was making 
to its business model and approach to the insurance offered.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against AXA 
Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman