DRN-1085103
The complaint
Mr S complains that EBS Pensions Limited (EBS) treated him unfairly when it refused his 
instruction to invest cash held in his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in a fixed term 
deposit account.
What happened
Mr S had a SIPP with EBS that held cash on his behalf.
In April 2019, Mr S instructed EBS to invest the cash in a one year term deposit account (Ill 
refer to this hereafter as the deposit account). He believed the deposit account to be a safe 
investment that was suitable for his needs. 
EBS refused the instruction. It said that the terms and conditions of the SIPP stipulated that:
As a member of the Scheme you can only invest in those investments permitted by 
us. The assets have to meet the FCA standard asset criteria in accordance with 
IPRUINV 5.9.1R and be capable of being accurately and fairly valued on a daily 
basis and readily realised within 30 days.
The IPRU-INV 5.9.1RA section of the FCAs Handbook is in fact worded slightly differently to 
the above but is essentially the same. It says
A Standard Asset must be capable of being accurately and fairly valued on an 
ongoing basis and readily realised within 30 days, whenever required.
EBS also pointed to the FCA's A New Capital Framework for SIPP operators which says: 
To clarify, operators should only treat assets as standard assets if they are on the 
standard asset list. However, where assets are on the standard asset list, but the 
operator has reason to believe that they would take more than 30 days to realise, 
those assets should be treated as non-standard.
EBS said that the deposit account didnt have a 30 day break clause and therefore couldnt 
be classified as a standard asset under these definitions. So EBS said the deposit account 
wasnt an investment that it would allow in the SIPP.
Mr S is unhappy about this. He thinks EBS is wrong to classify the deposit account as a non-
standard investment  especially as it is regulated and offers protection via the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme. Mr S says the FCA definitions of a standard asset (above) 
relate to a businesss capital adequacy requirements  not to his rights and interests as a 
beneficiary of the SIPP which, as a trustee, EBS had to safeguard. Mr S also says the FCA 
has highlighted in various reports and guidance how and why SIPP operators should 
conduct due diligence on investments and the deposit account clearly met the requirements 
set out in these documents. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt think EBS had treated Mr S 
unfairly. He said that EBS did have to conduct due diligence on investments prior to 
accepting them into a SIPP. But that did not preclude EBS from exercising commercial 
discretion in setting its own wider limits on what it deemed to be acceptable for its SIPP 
platform. He said the deposit account didnt meet the definition of a standard asset and so, 
overall, EBS had applied its terms and conditions fairly.
Mr S doesnt think this is right and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for essentially the same reasons.
I think its clear that the terms and conditions of the SIPP said that investments had to meet 
the FCAs standard asset criteria in accordance with IPRU-INV 5.9.1RA. I also think its clear 
that the deposit account didnt meet this criteria. So I think EBS has acted within the terms 
and conditions in refusing to invest in the deposit account.
I know Mr S thinks the terms and conditions are overly restrictive and dont reflect the FCAs 
reports and guidance to SIPP operators. He has also highlighted decisions issued by other 
ombudsmen at our service which refer to these documents as being important 
considerations in deciding whether a business has treated its customers fairly in accepting a 
SIPP investment.
The FCA documents serve as reminders to SIPP operators of their general obligations, good 
industry practice and the detriment that might be caused by failing to undertake due 
diligence on investments that they accept into SIPPs. However, they do not oblige an 
operator to accept an investment, where the acceptance would otherwise be consistent with 
its regulatory obligations. And there is nothing to suggest that a SIPP operator cant set its 
own minimum requirements on what is an acceptable investment as an additional 
requirement to its general obligations. 
Im satisfied that this is what EBS has done here. I consider the prohibition of investments in 
non-standard assets (as defined in the terms and conditions) to be a legitimate and fair 
exercise of EBS commercial discretion in deciding what risks it would expose itself and its 
customers to.
I appreciate that the refusal to make the deposit account investment has caused Mr S some 
frustration. But I dont think there are any grounds to say that EBS has treated Mr S unfairly. 
So I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint from Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman