DRN-1990036
 
The complaint
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996 when she 
applied for a store card.
What happened
Mrs W applied for a store card whilst shopping in 1996. At the same time she was sold a 
PPI policy. From what Ive seen so far it looks like Mrs W was charged a total of £551.87 for 
PPI premiums while the policy was active on her account.
Our adjudicator didnt think AXA mis-sold the PPI policy. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me.
In June 2020 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think about.
My provisional findings were that I was intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint, my main 
reason was that I thought it likely Mrs W wasnt given a fair choice about whether to add PPI 
to her account.
In my provisional decision I said:
AXA has been able to give us a copy of the application form signed by Mrs W in 1996. 
Ive looked carefully at this form.
Section six of the application form is headed, PROTECTION FOR YOUR PAYMENTS AND 
PURCHASE COVER. In this section is a box that has been ticked. And within the box is a
statement, Yes, I want my account covered by payment protection.
However, I notice that within this section and beside the tick there is written another 
name (not Mrs W) which appears to be the name of a member of the store staff.
I find this very unusual as AXA has told us the PPI was sold to Mrs W without any advice 
or recommendation from staff. And AXA hasnt provided an explanation as to why the 
staff members name would appear beside the tick applying PPI to Mrs Ws account. In 
my view this casts doubt on whether Mrs W herself ticked the box or indeed whether the 
box was ticked before Mrs W signed the application form.
Taking the circumstances of this particular case and what Ive seen from the way the 
form was completed, I have concerns that Mrs W may not have been given a fair choice 
about whether to apply for the PPI with her account. So, Im currently thinking of 
upholding this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has not responded to my provisional findings.
Mrs Ws representative has told us she accepts the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
So I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision. I therefore 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
AXA should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI 
 as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed 
her account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount they owe her.
AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs W 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund. 
If  when AXA works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs W 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 8% a 
year) on the extra Mrs W paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs W wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 
AXA should tell Mrs W what its done to work out the above calculations.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax AXA have taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Mrs W compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman