DRN-1693836
The complaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) (Direct Line) wont meet 
a claim he made under his motor insurance policy after his van was stolen.
What happened
Mr J was a sole trader operating as a mobile fishmonger. In October 2019 he stopped to 
make a sale to a regular customer. He left the keys in the ignition, as this was necessary for 
the refrigeration system to work. He opened the door at the back of the van and made the 
sale. He shut the back door and was standing next to it talking to the customer when a thief 
ran to the van, entered it, started the engine, and drove off.
Mr J reported the theft to the police, but the van wasnt recovered. He made a claim under 
his motor insurance policy, but Direct Line wouldnt pay his claim. It pointed to the following 
term of his policy:
What is not covered 
We will not cover:
 loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys and/or other devices which 
unlocks your vehicle and/or enables your vehicle to be started and driven is left in or on your 
vehicle which is unattended, or if your vehicle has been left unattended and not properly 
locked (this includes any window, roof opening, removable roof panel or hood being left 
open or unlocked);
Direct Line said it appreciated that Mr J was standing at the rear of the van with the doors 
closed. However, it didnt feel this left him in a position to attend and safeguard the vehicle 
should a theft be attempted.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Direct 
Line had carried out a fair investigation before deciding that the van was unattended. She 
noted that:
CCTV footage of the theft had been available. Mr J had viewed it and described what 
it showed, but Direct Line hadnt made any attempt to obtain a copy;
it appeared from Direct Lines file notes that most vans like Mr Js required the key to 
be in the ignition to keep the fridge/freezer running. Given he was transporting fresh 
fish, she didnt think it was unreasonable that he left the key in the ignition;
Direct Line had suggested that Mr J could have used the vans second key to lock 
the drivers door while serving customers. Mr J had said he thought unlocking the 
rear door to serve customers would also unlock the drivers door. Direct Lines 
representative had disputed this, but the investigator said she hadnt seen any 
evidence to support the representatives stance; and
she thought the fact Mr J had been standing next to the van meant that it was 
attended for the purposes of the policy.
The investigator recommended that Direct Line should settle Mr Js claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy. She said that Direct Lines declining the claim had caused    
Mr J significant distress and inconvenience. He hadnt been able to afford to replace the van 
with an equivalent one.
He had borrowed an older van to keep his business going, but had incurred costs totalling 
£447.05 in keeping it repaired and on the road, which she thought Direct Line should 
reimburse. She also recommended that Direct Line pay Mr J compensation of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience declining the claim had caused him.
Direct Line responded to say, in summary, that:
although the policy terms didnt contain a definition of what it meant by unattended, 
Mr J had acknowledged he was standing with his back to the van, talking to his 
customer, when it was stolen. So he wasnt watching, looking after, or taking care of 
the van  expressions commonly included in dictionary definitions of unattended;
Mr J wasnt standing by the drivers door when it was stolen, and so wasnt in a 
position to safeguard the van which meant he wasnt in attendance of it;
Mr J didnt know if it was practicable to use the second set of keys to lock and unlock 
the van while serving customers. But if he had adopted this practice, he could have 
locked the van after serving his customer while he was standing talking to him;
the thief might have been aware that Mr J met his customer here each week, and 
have planned the theft accordingly; and
he hadnt heard the thief open the drivers door or start the engine.
So Mr J wasnt safeguarding his vehicle while he was talking to his customer, although he 
knew the keys were in the ignition, which allowed the thief to enter the van and steal it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether the interpretation Direct Line is placing on the relevant 
policy term quoted above is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that the van was unlocked, and the keys were left in the ignition for the 
reasons Mr J has explained. However, for the exclusion contained in the policy term to apply 
the van must also have been unattended at the time of the theft. 
Mr J says that having completed his sale, he was standing next to the back of the van talking 
to his customer. CCTV evidence might have confirmed or refuted this, but Direct Line didnt 
take steps to obtain this. So I accept Mr Js evidence on this point. 
There isnt any definition of unattended in the policy terms. Ive considered carefully all 
Direct Lines arguments as to why it thinks the van was unattended. However, taking the 
natural meaning of the word, Im not persuaded that given Mr J was standing next to the van, 
it can reasonably be said to have been unattended. 
I conclude that it isnt reasonable for Direct Line to rely on this policy term to decline Mr Js 
claim, and it should now:1. settle Mr Js claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy. In doing so Direct 
Line should also pay Mr J interest on the amount paid out on the claim at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of the claim until settlement;
2. reimburse Mr J the costs totalling £447.05 he incurred in keeping his replacement 
van repaired and on the road. In doing so Direct Line should also pay Mr J interest on 
the amount of these costs at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date each cost 
was incurred until settlement; and
3. pay Mr J compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Putting things right
I think Direct Line should take the actions, and pay Mr J the money, set out in my final 
decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order U K Insurance Limited (trading as 
Direct Line) to:
1. settle Mr Js claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy. In doing so Direct 
Line should also pay Mr J interest on the amount paid out on the claim at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of the claim until settlement (1);
2. reimburse Mr J the costs totalling £447.05 he incurred in keeping his replacement 
van repaired and on the road. In doing so Direct Line should also pay Mr J interest on 
the amount of these costs at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date each cost 
was incurred until settlement (1); and
3. pay Mr J compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
(1) If Direct Line considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman