DRN-3970498
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the decision made by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following a claim 
under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E took out car insurance with Aviva. His policy schedule explained there would be a £450 
excess applied to any claim under the policy. 
The policy document explained:
Claims procedure
The person who is seeking payment under this policy shall give us all the information, 
documents and assistance we require to enable any claim to be validated for us to 
achieve a settlement.
On 20 June 2021 Mr E contacted Aviva to report that hed been involved in a road traffic 
incident involving two other cars. Mr E provided a description of what had happened. Mr E 
was sent an email saying Based on the information you have provided your vehicle is 
repairable. You will receive an email within the next few hours with a link to our online 
booking site.
On 6 July Mr E contacted Aviva using their instant messaging service. During this 
conversation it was recorded:
Aviva agent:So once you reported the claim to us, we had to sort out the repairs for your 
vehicle first. That was done as you booked it in and that is being taken care 
of. Now we are going to chase the third party insurers for their comments on 
liability. We will have to give them 21 to 28 working days to investigate and 
get back to us with a response. Till then we are waiting for your vehicle to be 
repaired and then we will have the costs on file which once we have then we 
will send this over to them to pay us. If they do not pay us then we will appoint 
solicitors to deal with claim to recover our claim costs.
Mr E:I have had some problems with the arrangement to repair my car, it asked me 
to pay 450GP myself that I disagree, I may also want to sell the car without a 
repair. I need an engineer to examine the car and assess the damage first 
before selling.
Aviva agent:yes the 450GP has to be paid to the garage if you get the vehicle repaired as 
we do not have any update on liability. This amount can later be recovered 
since you have a legal cover in place and solicitors will recover this on our 
behalf.
Mr E:Yes that is what I am unhappy about. I need an urgent damage assessment. I 
no longer want to keep this car.
Aviva agent:But it will later be recovered so you do not have to worry as you have a legal 
cover in place. But if you do not wish to keep the car then you can sell it but 
we will close down this claim as it will be like you are not claiming.
Mr E:I need some arrangement sooner rather than later.
Aviva agent: The claim process takes time [Mr G]. Sorting liability can take a while and you 
will have to wait unfortunately.
On 20 October 2021 Mr E sold his car. He contacted Aviva to compensate him for the loss 
incurred as he had to sell his car for less than the market value. Mr E was told his claim had 
been closed down. He was asked to send in evidence of the losses he wanted to claim for. 
Although Mr Es car had been sold, Mr E checked online for paintwork repair quotes based 
on his understanding of the repairs needed to his car. He found quotes for £480 and £520 
for paintwork repairs to be completed to the rear bumper and boot of his car.  
Aviva told Mr E that as he had sold his car they couldnt assess the damage to his car. 
Because of this they were unable to ask the third party to pay for the repair costs, and so 
wouldnt be able to help with his claim any further. 
Mr E wasnt happy with this response. Mr E complained to Aviva about the handling of his 
claim, saying that Aviva had failed to deal with or even send a single man to inspect the car. 
Mr E said the damage can easily be seen from the pictures taken at the time of the accident 
and the quotes are only for painting.  
Aviva responded to Mr Es complaint saying that Mr E had been informed about taking his 
car to a garage for the damage to be assessed and to confirm the extent of the damage. Mr 
E didnt want to pay the excess and so it was his decision not to take his car to be assessed 
at the time. Aviva said they would need repair costs approved by an engineer in order to 
recover this money from the third party insurer. Because Mr E had sold his car, they couldnt 
help any further with Mr Es claim, and it would remain closed.
Mr E was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that Aviva had acted reasonably in reaching their decision to close Mr 
Es claim, and didnt ask Aviva to do anything in settlement of Mr Es complaint. Mr E 
rejected these findings saying (amongst other things):
- Her aim to send me to garage was only about repairing my car for which I needed to 
pay £450 by myself, and not about assessing the damage to the car.
-Blaming me for selling the car after waiting for 4 months also giving much credit for 
whatever the agents had told me during that single chat is totally unacceptable; and
-My claim had been only for painting of the rear bumper and the boot for £480, for the 
damage that I guess anyone with very limited experience and looking in to the picture 
that I have provided from the scene of accident would see as reasonable.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Mr E feels strongly that Aviva have not dealt with his claim properly. I thank Mr E for taking 
the time to explain his personal circumstances and everything thats happened since the 
incident involving his car in June 2021. I understand it has been a difficult time for Mr E. 
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Aviva need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr E but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mr Es claim.    
Ive considered the claim history, and the evidence provided by Mr E in support of his claim. 
In doing so I think the information provided to Mr E by Aviva was in line with Mr Es policy 
terms, and what wed expect for a claim of this type. 
Following the incident involving Mr Es car in June 2021, Mr E was sent a link with 
information about how to get his car repaired. Mr E was also told hed need to pay the £450 
excess in order to make a claim under his policy. I have seen that Mr Es policy included a 
£450 excess so I think its fair that Aviva told Mr E that this would be applied to his claim. 
Ive reviewed the chat history and Im satisfied that Mr E was provided with clear instructions 
about how his claim would be dealt with, and what steps hed need to take in order to start 
the process. 
Mr E feels strongly that Aviva delayed his claim by failing to take any action for four months. 
But I dont agree. I think the conversation with the Aviva representative on 6 July 2021 made 
it clear what Mr E would need to do to take his claim forward. As Aviva didnt receive 
confirmation of Mr E taking his car for repairs as instructed, the claim was closed. I think 
these actions were fair and in line with what Mr E was told would happen if he sold his car 
before Aviva had assessed the damage being claimed for. 
Mr E has explained that he only needed his car assessed, not repaired, as he was going to 
sell it. Mr E doesnt think it was reasonable for Aviva to insist on him getting his car 
inspected to be repaired. Im satisfied that Aviva acted reasonably by asking Mr E to take his 
car to be inspected, and for a repair estimate to be agreed by an independent engineer. 
Without this evidence, Aviva wouldnt have been unable to reclaim any costs from the third 
party insurer. This request was also in line with Mr Es policy terms which explained Mr E 
was required to provide all the information, documents and assistance [Aviva] require to 
enable any claim to be validated for us to achieve a settlement. 
Mr E says he provided quotes for the repair work to the paint, and Aviva didnt accept these. 
The online quotes provided by Mr E only show a quote for paintwork repairs without any 
explanation of the damage assessed, and cost breakdown for materials and labour. Mr E 
has confirmed he found this information online, after his car had been sold. Im satisfied it was necessary for a garage to prepare an estimate which would then be approved by an 
independent engineer before any repair work could start on Mr Es car. So it was reasonable 
for Aviva to reject the online quotes provided by Mr E, which couldnt be used to reclaim 
costs from the third party insurer. 
We would say that an independent engineers professional opinion is generally regarded as 
an impartial and independent view. An engineers professional duty is to the Court - not the 
business instructing them, or the customer. Because of this, generally wed say its fair for an 
insurer to rely on this evidence when dealing with a claim. This evidence would be a detailed 
and thorough assessment of any damage claimed for. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva 
to receive this as part of their validation of Mr Es claim, and in line with his policy terms.  
Mr E has expressed disappointment with the general handling of his claim, including the lack 
of proper communication with him, and rejection of his evidence showing the damage to his 
car. Ive considered Mr Es comments. But I dont think Aviva have mishandled Mr Es claim 
in the way that he has described. 
The information provided to Mr E about the £450 excess that would be payable (and 
recovered from the third party insurer) was fair and in line with Mr Es policy schedule. The 
explanation provided about how the claim would be dealt with, and what Mr E would need to 
do in order for Aviva to recover costs from the third party, was reasonable. Overall the claim 
was progressed in line with the policy terms agreed to by Mr E. 
I appreciate Mr Es disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr E 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I cant ask Aviva to pay for the 
damage to Mr Es car, given the lack of evidence available supporting the damage being 
claimed for. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman