DRN-2604459
The complaint
Ms P complains that a car she took from Oodle Financial Services Limited under a hire 
purchase agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In August 2019 Ms P took a used car on hire purchase from Oodle. The car was around
three and a half years old and had a recorded mileage of just under 92,000. The cash price
was £7,495, and after the initial payment Ms P was to make monthly payments of £171.76.
In February 2020 Ms P said that the car broke down and would not re-start. She had to call a
recovery service and the car was then taken to a garage. The garage suggested the car be
inspected by the manufacturer to diagnose the fault. Ms P contacted Oodle which suggested
an independent inspection to ascertain if any fault had been present at the time of sale.
In March 2020 Oodle arranged for an independent inspection of the car. That showed that
the ignition lights would illuminate, but the car wouldnt start. The engineer concluded that it
was likely there was an electrical fault within the engine control unit. A specialist repair or
replacement unit was probably needed. The engineer thought on the balance of probability
that the conditions would not have been present or developing at the time Ms P took delivery
of the car. It was likely that deterioration developed after that. The engineer recommended
that the manufacturer conduct a further inspection.
The cars manufacturer looked at the problem in June 2020 and concluded that the car
needed a new powertrain control module and battery. This would cost in excess of £1,600,
including fitting and diagnostics. Ms P took out a loan so that the car could be repaired; the 
alternative was to pay storage costs while her complaint was considered.
Ms P referred her complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered what
had happened. He concluded, on balance, that the car had been of satisfactory quality at the
time of delivery and so didnt recommend that Oodle do anything more to resolve Ms Ps
complaint. Ms P didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an
ombudsman review the case.  
I did that but thought that, on balance, the car had not been of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Ms P. I noted that, in court proceedings, it would have been for Oodle to 
show that it was, since the fault had developed within six months of delivery. I was not 
persuaded that Oodle had shown that; its own inspection report was unable to identify the 
precise nature of the fault, which only really came to light when the manufacturer was able to 
carry out a more detailed inspection. 
I recommended that Oodle should arrange for collection of the car and end the finance 
agreement, as well as making refunds of some of the payments Ms P had made and paying 
her some compensation. 
My provisional decision had however been made on the understanding that car had not been 
repaired. Ms P helpfully corrected that misunderstanding and provided evidence of the cost 
of repairs and of the borrowing she took out to fund them. In total (including interest on that 
borrowing) Ms P paid just under £1,800 to have the car repaired. I therefore reconsidered 
the remedy I had proposed and suggested instead that Oodle pay Ms P a total of £2,000, to 
cover the costs of repair, interest and compensation in recognition of the inconvenience to 
which Ms P had been put and the distress she had suffered.
Oodle did not respond to my revised proposal. Ms P said however that she felt she had to 
have the car repaired because the costs of storage while this service considered her 
complaint would have been very much higher than the costs of repairs. She was concerned 
too that the outcome of her complaint was uncertain. 
Ms P also explained that she had not been able to make monthly payments under the hire 
purchase agreement. Even if she were to accept my revised proposal, she would remain in 
debt to Oodle.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have indicated, Oodle had a contractual duty to supply a car that was of satisfactory 
quality. I dont believe it did so. In order to bring the car up to that standard, Ms P incurred 
costs, including the costs of borrowing to pay for the necessary repairs. I do not believe 
however that it would be fair to require Oodle to reimburse or write off hire payments in this 
case. Those were payments that Ms P agreed to make; in my view, the fair remedy for 
Oodles breach in not providing a car of satisfactory quality is for it to meet the costs of 
bringing the car to that standard. That will in my view put the parties in the position the hire 
purchase agreement envisaged.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Ms Ps complaint, Oodle Financial 
Services Limited should pay her £2,000.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman