DRN-2242386
The complaint
Mr J, represented by Ms P, complains that the conditional sale agreement he entered with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance was mis-sold. He says he wasnt 
provided with a copy of the agreement and so wasnt aware of the differences in the financial 
details until much later and so couldnt exercise his right to withdraw within the first 14 days.
What happened
Ms P says that she and Mr J visited the dealer in February 2019. Mr J entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with Hyundai Finance to acquire a new car and they collected it 
on 1 March 2019. Mr J says that there was a 0% finance deal in place, and it was on this 
basis he entered into the finance agreement. He says he wasnt provided with the finance 
agreement to sign and so wasnt aware that the financial terms were different to those he 
had been told. He says that when he received his annual statement he realised that the 
interest rate was 8.2%.
Mr J says that had Hyundai Finance provided him with a copy of the finance agreement at 
the time of the acquisition he would have realised the interest rate was higher and he would 
have withdrawn from the agreement. He says that this option wasnt available to him as the 
documents werent provided.
Mr J has settled the finance but says he paid around £2,680 more than he should have. 
Hyundai Finance issued a final response letter dated April 2020. It said that it was Mr Js 
responsibility to check he was happy with the terms of the agreement before signing it. It 
said Mr J would have been given the opportunity to inspect the agreement while at the 
dealership or take the documents away to consider. It said it had contacted the dealership 
which confirmed Mr J was provided with the terms and conditions and given time to consider 
the agreement terms before collecting his car. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that he would have expected Mr J to 
check the terms of the finance agreement before agreeing to it and had he done so it would 
have been clear the finance wasnt provided at 0%. He said that Hyundai Finance sent Mr J 
a welcome letter that said the dealership had provided Mr J with a copy of the finance 
agreement, pre-contract credit information and an explanation document and Mr J didnt 
question this at the time. The details of his account with Hyundai Finance were also 
available online. Our investigator also noted that Mr J was paying a higher monthly payment 
than was quoted in the sales invoice and he didnt raise this.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators view. Ms P said that they collected the car on 1 March 
and were provided with the handover document at that time. She says this had the box 
ticked to say the finance documents were given to them, but this wasnt the case and the 
finance agreement wasnt generated until 16 March 2019. Ms P says they didnt visit the 
dealership after 1 March and so couldnt have been provided with the finance agreement. 
She also noted that the balloon payment in the handover document was different to that in 
the finance agreement. She said that Mr J didnt sign the finance agreement and wasnt 
provided with the document and so wasnt able to check the terms and withdraw from the 
agreement if they werent as he expected.
Ms P noted our investigators comments about Mr Js account being online but said this 
doesnt contain the finance documents. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr J visited the dealership on 23 February 2019. The sales invoice from that day provides 
the details of the car and sets out that a £1,000 deposit was paid with £12,574 as the 
amount to be financed. This is the amount of credit provided by Hyundai Finance. Therefore, 
there is nothing to suggest the amount financed was misrepresented.
Mr J says that there was a 0% finance agreement in place at the time for new cars. He says 
that he could have afforded to buy the car outright but given the credit was being provided at 
0% he chose to enter the finance agreement and spread the costs. He says that he wouldnt 
have entered into a finance agreement costing 8.2% as he could either have paid cash or 
received a loan at a lower interest rate. I note Mr Js comments and can understand why he 
was upset when he received his annual statement and saw the interest rate was higher than 
he thought was agreed. However, for me to uphold this complaint I must be satisfied that 
Hyundai Finance did something wrong.
Mr J has said that he didnt sign the finance agreement, and this was only completed on 16 
March, days after he had collected the car. I have looked at the finance agreement and can 
see that there is an electronic signature for Mr J dated 1 March 2019. This is the same date 
he says he collected the car and the same date that he signed by hand the handover 
document. If Mr J believes the dealer acted fraudulently in applying his electronic signature 
this is something I would expect him to pursue separately. However, based on the 
information received, it is reasonable that Hyundai Finance believed Mr J had signed the 
agreement on 1 March 2019 along with the other documents. 
The handover agreement signed by Mr J includes a checklist. The box relating to the finance 
documents has been ticked. I understand the comment Ms P has made that the finance 
agreement wasnt signed by Hyundai Finance until 16 March 2019, but as the signature from 
Mr J was dated 1 March 2019, I find it more likely than not that this agreement was provided 
to Mr J for signature at that time and then countersigned at the later date.
The finance agreement contains the information Mr J needed to know to make an informed 
decision about whether to enter the agreement. It set out the interest rates and finance 
costs.
Mr J said he received the handover document. While this didnt include the finance details it 
includes information about the balloon payment being £5,022. The sales invoice included 
information about the monthly payments stating that there would be 39 monthly payments of 
£313.74. In the finance agreement the monthly payments are higher at £319.65. However, 
Mr J paid these and didnt raise any concerns, therefore I find it reasonable to accept he was 
expecting these monthly payments. Given the information in the handover document Mr J 
should have been reasonably aware that there would also be a balloon payment. I note the comment that the balloon payment in the handover document was different to the amount 
included in the finance agreement, but as the handover document figure was higher than the 
figure in the finance document I dont find I can say this disadvantaged Mr J. Instead it 
seems, that through these other documents Mr J should have been reasonably aware of the 
payments required under the agreement.
Mr J has said by not receiving the finance agreement he wasnt able to consider the terms 
and exercise his right to withdraw. The dealer had provided a dealer declaration to Hyundai 
Finance to say the relevant information had been provided. Therefore, I find it reasonable 
that Hyundai Finance would accept this as the case. Hyundai Finance sent Mr J a welcome 
letter in March 2019 saying he had been provided with the finance agreement and other 
relevant documents and had these not been provided, Mr J could have raised this at the 
time.
I understand why Mr J is upset that his finance wasnt provided at 0% interest, but based on 
the reasons set out above, I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint 
against Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman