DRN-2940303
The complaint
 Mrs A, who is represented by her husband, Mr A, complains that Lex Autolease Ltd refused 
to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr A has suggested we address the complaint based on what happened when he first raised 
the matter, but that is not how this service operates. I have to consider the actions of all 
parties up to the point I make my decision.
The car in question is a hybrid and runs on a combination of battery power and petrol. The 
manufacturer issued a recall, but as Mrs A wasnt the owner she wasnt notified. Lex had 
been notified. Mr A became aware of the issue and contacted Lex in October 2020. At this 
time Mrs A encountered a software issue which caused the battery not to recharge and the 
car had to be collected for repair in October 2020. The car was in the garage for 11 days and 
no courtesy car was supplied.
The car was taken back in February. Lex has offered a 10% discount of the rental payments 
between September 202 and January 2021 and £100 compensation. The manufacturer 
issued a £500 fuel card to cover the potential extra fuel costs due to the battery issue. 
The major issue which was the subject of the recall was addressed by the manufacturer and 
I have noted that a new battery was installed as part of the recall remedy at a cost of some 
£5,981. This cost was borne by the manufacturer.
Mrs A first complained in October and as that was within six months of acquisition the seller 
had the right to effect a repair. It has done so, for both issues, which may be connected, at 
no cost to Mrs A and as such I do not consider there are grounds for rejection.  
I agree that some compensation is merited. Apart from the software fault I gather Mrs A has 
been able to use the car, but not with the battery power supply. I can see this could have 
caused some inconvenience and a wider concern about the cars reliability. I note that the 
lease agreement is for 8,000 miles a year and the car was without the battery for some six 
months so I consider the £500 fuel card to be more than generous in terms of extra fuel 
costs.
The compensation of £100 plus 10% off the monthly rentals seems fair and reasonable to 
me. Mr A has said that no additional costs were incurred as a result of the car not being 
available for 11 days and so I can only consider the inconvenience element of this period. 
Quite simply, Mrs A has been able to make use of the car and has suffered a lack of use of 
the battery powered element. As such, I do not consider further compensation is merited. 
I note Mr A has said that Lexs complaint handling left something to be desired, but this is 
not a regulated activity and so is outside my remit. 
Putting things right
 Lex should compensate Mrs A as set out below.
My final decision
Lex Autolease Ltd has already made an offer to pay £100 and refund 10% of the monthly 
payments from September to January to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should pay ££100 and refund 10% of the monthly 
payments from September to January.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman