DRN-3363230
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. He collected the car on 9 July 2021. An MOT completed on 6 July 2021 
showed that the car had covered mileage of 22,371.
Mr H says that when he collected the car the fuel was low, so he went straight to a garage 
and filled up with diesel. Mr H has produced a receipt showing that £50 was paid in cash for 
fuel at 15.03pm on 9 July 2021.
Mr H says that on 14 July 2021 he tested positive for Covid and had to isolate. On 24 July 
2021 he drove the car to the beach but on the return journey it broke down.
The car was recovered and Mr H was advised that it broke down because it had been filled 
with petrol rather than diesel.
Mr H paid to have the car repaired. He complained to Santander and asked it to meet the 
cost of repairs.
In response, Santander said that because the fuel was so low at the point of supply, it didnt 
think the car was mis-fuelled before purchase. Santander also said that the fuel receipt 
provided by Mr H wasnt sufficient evidence  because there as no reference to the identity of 
the purchaser or to the car. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she thought Santander had provided 
enough evidence to show that the car wasnt mis-fuelled at the point of supply.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the fact that the car had passed an MOT shortly before the point  
of supply didnt mean that the mis fuel had happened later, because fuel wasnt checked at a 
MOT and if the fuel tank had been contaminated with only a small amount of petrol it would 
still have passed the emissions test and it would have been possible  to drive the car for 200 
miles before the damage occurred. Mr H said that at least one fuel injector had been 
replaced on the car prior to the point of supply and said hed been told that damage to the 
fuel system wouldve occurred over a period of time, not in the first 5 days hed driven the 
car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality of they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the 
quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things including fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Theres no dispute that the car broke down because of a mis fuel. The issue in this case is 
whether the mis fuel had occurred prior to the point of supply, or whether it happened after 
Mr H collected the car.
Mr H has provided a receipt for diesel dated 9 July 2021 (the day he collected the car). The 
fuel was paid for in cash so I have no way of knowing whether it was Mr H or someone else 
who purchased the fuel. Nor can I be certain which vehicle the fuel was purchased for. So, 
the fuel receipt itself isnt enough to prove that the mis fuel had occurred prior to Mr H 
collecting the car.
Ive thought about the recent history of the car. Santander has said that it contacted the 
dealer, who said it had collected the car a week prior to the point of supply and had driven it 
without any issues.
I can see that the car passed a MOT on 6 July 2021. Theres nothing to suggest that a mis 
fuel was detected at this time. Santander has said that if there had been fuel contamination 
at the MOT, this wouldve resulted in emissions queries.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report. This confirms that the car has been mis 
fuelled and conclude that the contamination had likely taken place after the point of supply.
Mr H has said that the fuel wasnt examined at the MOT, and that if there was a small 
amount of petrol in the system, the emissions test wouldnt have picked this up. I havent 
seen any evidential basis for what Mr H has said, and his comments are at odds with the 
conclusions in the inspection report, which is an expert opinion and carries significant 
evidential weight.
Both Mr H and the dealer have said that the fuel tank was empty when Mr H collected the 
car. I think its unlikely that the mis fuel happened prior to the point of supply because the 
dealer drove the car a significant distance prior to Mr H collecting it. If the car had been mis 
fuelled before Mr H collected it, I think its likely that the car would have broken down prior to 
the point of supply, because the car had been driven a significant distance prior to the point 
of supply.
Ive had regard to Mr Hs comments about repair to the fuel injectors. He says he was told by 
the manufacturer that the damage to the car as a result of the mis fuel would have happened 
over a period of time. Mr H says that a report was sent by the manufacturer to the dealer 
showing the damaged fuel injectors. I havent been provided with a copy of this report so Im 
unable to comment on it. However, I cant see anything in the independent inspection report 
which suggest that the injectors have been replaced, or that the damage was caused over a 
long period of time.
Ive also had regard to Mr Hs comments about the previous owners of the car. However, if 
there were faults with the car at the point of supply, I think its likely that these would have 
been identified at the MOT and the independent inspection. Theres no evidence to suggest 
that there were any faults. So, Im unable to conclude that the previous owner knew that the 
car was faulty.Based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the pint of supply. So I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman