DRN-3418829
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Tilney Investment Management Services Limited (Tilney) mis-
sold an income protection insurance policy to him.
All reference to Tilney includes any agents acting on its behalf and its predecessors.
What happened
Mr R asked Tilney for a financial review in 2007. Tilney recommended an income protection 
insurance policy. Mr R made a claim on the policy which was paid for approximately two 
years but in 2014 the insurer said Mr R didnt meet the definition of employed. A separate 
complaint was made to the insurer.
Mr R complained to Tilney about its advice and recommendation. He said the policy wasnt 
suitable and so it had been mis-sold. He said Tilney knew about his income arrangements 
from all the information he provided to it. He asked for a review as his employment status 
was changing and he told the adviser he would be receiving gross income and that he was 
going to be working as a consultant. So it should have known that the policy wasnt suitable. 
Tilney didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policy as Mr R hadnt told it the way he was being 
paid was changing. It said Mr R had signed an application form which confirmed he was 
receiving a salary and if this wasnt correct, he should have let Tilney know. 
Unhappy with Tilneys response, Mr R referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into this complaint but didnt think Tilney had done anything wrong 
as there was insufficient evidence that Mr R had made Tilney aware that he was no longer 
receiving his income via PAYE. 
Mr R disagreed and in summary, has made the following points:
As Mr R told Tilney he was receiving gross pay, this should have alerted it to the fact 
that he didnt receive his income via PAYE.
Tilney was aware of how Mr R was paid and so the policy was mis-sold as Mr R 
confirmed verbally and in writing how he was paid.
Tinley cannot shift the responsibility to a client for negligent advice.
The policy was inappropriate as it wouldnt cover the type of gross income Mr R 
received.
An agreement couldnt be reached. And so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say when an insurer sells a policy through an 
advised sale, it should provide a suitable recommendation based on the consumers 
individual needs and circumstances. 
The protection report from November 2006 recommends an income protection policy. Key 
features and a product guide were provided to Mr R. The policy documents confirmed the 
definition of earned income was as follows:
Employed
Earned income means the gross taxable earnings for PAYE assessment purposes in 
the 12 months prior to the life assured becoming disabled. This can include:
regular commission and bonuses received by the life assured
dividends received
Self employed
If the life assured is self-employed, earned income means the life assureds share of 
pre-tax profit
Mr R completed and signed an application form dated January 2007 in which he described 
himself as employed as non-exec and completed the salary section to say his annual 
earned income was £68,000. The application included a note under the salary box which 
said Please read the definition of earned income
Tilney said:
Mr R took out a new policy as the one he had was ceasing.
The report says income from all sources could be covered which refers to more than 
one employment and not all types of income. It references earned income and not 
received income. 
Mr R anticipated changes to his employment and income structure in future years 
and so the policy would allow earned income from other businesses to be 
considered.
Tilney believed Mr R had £68,000 in earned income and this was highlighted in the 
report. If this was incorrect Mr R should have highlighted this.
Tilney advised Mr R to read all product brochures and enclosures and if any 
enclosures were missing then Mr R should contact Tilney before making any decision 
about the recommendations. 
Mr R has said:
He told Tilney he would continue his employment as a consultant and would be paid 
gross, through invoicing.His previous policy paid out under PAYE earnings but as the way he was being paid 
was changing, the policy wording wouldnt cover him under a claim.
The only reason for the new policy was because he was now being paid differently.
The new policy recommended by Tilney had a similar restriction to the previous 
policy and didnt cover all earned sources, as suggested by Tilney. 
So Tilney recommended a policy that would never pay out and has breached its duty 
of care and responsibilities under the FCA handbook. 
Had Tilney not made the mistake, Mr R would have taken out a different policy to 
protect his income and so Mr R should be paid the benefit he would have received 
had he bought a suitable policy. 
Ive considered all of the above information as well as the new additional information Mr R 
has provided which he says shows he told Tilney about the way he would receive his 
income. 
Having done so, I agree that Mr R told Tilney he was expecting to earn director fees, some 
of which would be paid gross. But he also confirmed he knew that he needed to earn that 
income in order to claim, if he fell ill.
On the whole, I think Tilneys advice was suitable based on the information available to it. I 
dont think Mr Rs email from September 2006 is definitive proof that he wouldnt meet the 
terms of the policy as he could have earned his income via PAYE or as self-employed. 
There is no indication from Mr R that he wouldnt be self-employed or that all of his income 
was to be paid gross. The payment of gross fees refers to £20,000 of his income whereas 
his total earnt income was listed as £68,000, as confirmed in the application form he signed.
Furthermore, Tilney drew Mr Rs attention to the policy documents which confirmed the 
definition of earned income. The significance of the documents was highlighted by Tilney by 
confirming that Mr R needed to review the product information before making a decision. So 
I think Tilney provided sufficient warning that the product information was key, and that Mr R 
needed to review it. 
In addition, Mr R confirmed on his application form, which was dated later than the email 
correspondence from 2006, that he was employed and receiving earned income. So based 
on this, Im not satisfied that Tilney made a mistake  and I dont think the policy was mis-
sold. It was suitable based on the information Mr R had provided on his application form.
Mr R also says he was incorrectly told the policy would cover all sources of income and that 
this played a part in his decision to take this policy. But the reference to sources of income 
referred to the difference between his previous company policy and a personal policy and 
wasnt specific to the policy which was recommended to Mr R. So I dont think this was the 
deciding factor which led Mr R to take the recommended policy.
Mr R also says that had Tilney not made a mistake, he would have taken a valid policy which 
would have paid out in the event of sickness. But I havent seen any evidence of which 
policy Mr R would have taken based on his specific circumstances. 
Even if I agreed that the policy was mis-sold, the usual remedy would be a return of 
premiums as Mr R would never have taken a policy which wasnt suitable. But Mr R made a 
claim which was paid for a number of months and the total payments equalled more than the 
premiums he had paid. And so I wouldnt ask Tilney to do anything more in any event.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman