DRN-3126439
The complaint
Mr G says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Shelby Finance provided to Mr G in October 
2020. The loan was for £650 to be repaid in nine monthly instalments, with the highest being 
£131.07. Mr G didnt make any repayments for the loan and so it was defaulted. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Shelby Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to ensure Mr G 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby Finance should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Shelby Finance was required to 
establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Shelby Finance asked Mr G for information about his income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit checks. Mr G said he earned £1,900 a month but Shelby Finance relied on a figure 
of £1,520. Mr G said his monthly outgoings totalled £900. This left him with a monthly 
disposable income of £620 to meet his maximum monthly repayment of £131.07. I cant see 
anything untoward in the credit checks Shelby Finance carried out that should have 
prompted further questions. 
Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the time and his 
history with Shelby Finance, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything 
in the information Mr G provided or the information Shelby Finance shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr G was saying. 
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Shelby Finance obtained. And Mr Gs actual financial 
position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  
had been obtained. 
But Shelby Finance could only make its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr G, I dont think it 
had yet reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for 
Mr G. In these circumstances, I dont think Shelby Finance needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Shelby Finance carried out reasonable checks 
even though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Gs actual 
financial position. 
Shelby Finance relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Mr Gs declared income and Mr G only taking one loan, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G was also unhappy with emails Shelby Finance sent him after he missed a repayment. 
He said he found them threatening. But, from what I can see, the emails asked Mr G to 
contact it about the missed repayment and offered to make repayment arrangements. I dont 
think this was unreasonable.
Shelby Finance offered to arrange a reduced repayment plan with Mr G. I think this was a 
positive and sympathetic response to his financial distress. 
Mr G has lately provided evidence that Shelby Finance has sold on his loan. Hes unhappy 
that it did this whilst his complaint was with our service. But while we can ask a business to 
hold back from its recovery actions while we consider complaints, we cant compel them to 
do this. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman