DRN-1606987
complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed, so the
complaint was passed to me  an ombudsman - to look into afresh and issue a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, Lloyds shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it 
clear the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mr and Mrs Ls agreement to take it out. 
Mrs L says she was told the policy was compulsory and they werent given an option about 
it. 
Mr and Mrs L took out the MPPI at some point between 1987 and 1988. This was around the 
time their mortgage was also arranged. Lloyds hasnt been able to tell us how it sold the 
policy, but Mr and Mrs L say it was arranged during a meeting, so I have relied on this. 
Lloyds isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. So, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ls comments alongside what we know 
in general about how Lloyds sold MPPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have 
happened. And based on what I know about how Lloyds sold MPPI I wouldve expected 
there to have been conversations with the advisor about the MPPI and paperwork wouldve 
had to be completed to confirm the level of cover and to set up the policy. And in Mr and Mrs 
Ls case it was decided the policy would cover Mrs L only. 
Following these discussions, Mr and Mrs L were likely to have been sent or given paperwork 
about the cover and the payments for the MPPI wouldve appeared separately on their 
statements. So I wouldve expected them to query this if they had any concerns or if they 
wanted to cancel the policy. And I can see the MPPI was cancelled in 1990. 
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs L knew at 
the time that the PPI was optional and that they decided to take it. But I can understand why 
they might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ls case on the basis that Lloyds advised them to take out the 
policy. This places a greater responsibility on Lloyds as it shouldve made sure the policy 
was right for them. The policy was set up to cover Mrs L only. This means it had to ensure 
the policy met Mr Ls individual needs. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think the policy was right for her. I say this because:
Mrs L was eligible for MPPI.
It doesnt seem she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI
cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions.
Mrs L wouldve received some employer benefits at the time. The MPPI wouldve 
paid out for 12 months if Mrs L lost her job and for the same duration if she was off 
work sick. Mrs L was taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious. And I think having the security that the 
repayments wouldve been made if Mrs L was unable to work wouldve been 
important to Mrs L.
Mrs L says she had some savings she couldve relied on. The PPI wouldve allowed 
Mrs L to keep these savings intact. Mrs L has also said she couldve relied on Mr Ls 
income. I dont doubt that Mr L couldve been able to help but the mortgage was in 
Mrs Ls name and given it was her financial commitment I think the protection offered 
by the MPPI wouldve been valuable if Mrs L was unexpectedly out of work. 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L. I can see Mrs L 
has said their finances were tight at the time and the interest rates on the mortgage 
were high. But as the policys premiums were paid monthly, they could have 
amended or cancelled the policy if it no longer met Mrs Ls needs.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went
wrong. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them off taking out
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said, but these points dont change my decision 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. I know this will be
disappointing for Mr and Mrs L, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman