DRN-2960093
The complaint
Miss L complains that Nationwide Building Society gave her incorrect information about a 
payment into her daughters account.
What happened
Miss L says she contacted Nationwide about making a payment into her daughters Child 
Trust Fund (CTF). She says she was given the account details and told Nationwide she was 
intending to make the payment from her account with a different business. Miss L says the 
payment didnt go through and was later told that a payment couldnt be made in this way. 
She says there has been a loss of about £500 interest and missed the deadline for making 
the payment that tax year. Miss L would like compensation and the loss of interest paid.
Nationwide says a payment into a CTF can only be made in branch by cash or cheque and 
cant be made from an account with a different business. It says it has no record of the call 
on 3 April 2020 but accepts it gave Miss L incorrect information in a call of 14 April 2020. 
Nationwide has apologised and paid a total of £100 compensation.
Miss L brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought without a call recording it was impossible to be sure if Miss L had told Nationwide 
she intended to make the payment from a different business. And that payments into a CTF 
are not in any event related to the tax year. 
Miss L doesnt accept that view and says she couldnt have received the payment 
information without calling Nationwide but says she may have got the date wrong having 
found a record of a call to it on 14 April 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss L will be disappointed by my decision.
It is unfortunate that the telephone call of 3 April 2020 cant be traced. Without that call I 
cant be sure what was discussed and if Miss L told Nationwide the intended payment was 
from an account with a different business. So, it follows that I cant fairly conclude 
Nationwide misled Miss L. The call is key as Im satisfied that a payment into a Nationwide 
CTF cant be made from an external account. So, I dont think Nationwide made a mistake 
by rejecting the payment in these circumstances.
There is no question that Nationwide did provide incorrect information in a later call. But Im 
satisfied that it fairly apologised for that mistake and has paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £100.
I appreciate Miss L says her daughter has lost about £500 interest. I dont think Miss L has 
explained why that is the case and I dont think a payment into a CTF has to be made before 
the end of a tax year. I think it likely having listened to the call between Nationwide and Miss 
Ls husband that there may be a misunderstanding about that issue. Im satisfied that a 
maximum amount can be paid into a CTF per year and that year runs from the childs 
birthday and a tax year has no relevance. So, I dont think Miss Ls daughter lost out on the 
ability to invest in the CTF and the delay of some days wouldnt have had any significant 
affect even if I upheld this complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide has searched for the call in question and I cant fairly 
order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman