DRN-3181702
The complaint
Miss W complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to carry out appropriate due diligence 
before transferring her personal pension to an occupational pension scheme in May 2018.
What happened
Scottish Widows upheld Miss Ws complaint. It accepted there were warning signs it should 
have recognised that indicated her transfer request might put her at risk of being scammed.  
It accepted that if it had warned her, she would not have transferred her pension. It offered to 
reinstate Miss Ws plan, at the value it would be now if she had never transferred it. It also 
sent her £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
Miss Ws representative asked SW for a breakdown of how the reinstatement value had 
been calculated. SW provided the price of each unit (held in the pension plan) on both the 
date of transfer and the date Miss Ws policy was reinstated (25 February 2020). Miss Ws 
representative says this isnt adequate, as the reply did not explain the unit holdings or unit 
prices, or any other events to the funds during the intervening period - with no corroborative 
evidence provided of the unit holdings and unit prices.
The representative also said that Miss W had asked for its fee (25% of the compensation 
plus VAT) to be settled directly by Scottish Widows, because it had been pivotal in getting 
her complaint upheld. Scottish Widows declined to do this as the representatives fee was a 
separate agreement between Miss W and the representative. Scottish Widows said the 
outcome of the complaint would have been the same had Miss W not used a representative.
Our investigator didnt consider Scottish Widows needed to do anything more, noting that it 
had already put Miss W back into the position she would have been in, but for its admitted 
error in transferring out her policy. He said that the question of the CMCs fees was a matter 
between Miss W and her CMC. He agreed with Scottish Widows that there is no reason to 
consider the outcome of the complaint would have been different without the CMCs 
involvement.
In response, the CMC said:
- Miss Ws financial position had changed as a result of Scottish Widows error. She 
incurred specialist costs with the intention these would be met from a compensation 
award, and she now doesnt have sufficient means to meet these costs.
- Reinstatement of her pension was therefore contrary to the FCAs Principles for 
Businesses as Scottish Widows was not treating her fairly.
- There is a significant risk that reinstatement could lead to distress if Miss W is not 
able to meet the financial commitments she entered into. She is 56 years old, earning 
less than £10,000pa with credit card debts.
- The one size fits all approach Scottish Widows has adopted was inappropriate as 
some clients might be categorised as vulnerable. 
- Miss W was yet to receive any correspondence from Scottish Widows to say what 
her policy is now worth.
- Miss W does not wish to continue with Scottish Widows as her provider and 
compensation in monetary form gives her flexibility to make other arrangements.
- Has Scottish Widows checked whether reinstatement has tax consequences such as 
affecting Miss Ws annual allowance?
As both parties agree that Miss W would not have transferred her pension away from 
Scottish Widows but for its failure to warn her of the risks, the outstanding issue for me to 
decide is whether Scottish Widows offer to reinstate Miss Ws pension is fair (and, if not, 
what would be fair).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Widows has offered to reinstate Miss Ws pension policy. Reinstating the policy is 
the closest way to put her in the position she would have been in, but for Scottish Widows 
errors. For this reason, I think the offer is fair. 
Scottish Widows says there will be no annual allowance complications with the reinstated 
funds. It has not paid redress into a new plan for Miss W, which is the other type of payment 
we commonly see that would count towards Miss Ws annual allowance. It has not claimed 
relief against Miss Ws income tax position on the payment either, for that reason. But, in line 
with how the original policy would have operated, shell be entitled to a new tax-free cash 
sum and the rest of the policy may be subject to income tax as and when it is withdrawn. So, 
Im not aware of any tax complications for which Scottish Widows would reasonably be 
responsible and the CMC has provided no evidence of these. 
The receiving occupational schemes portfolio included unregulated investments such as 
property in the UK and France. Its unclear what value, if any, would be realised from those 
investments. Miss W could face complications if she does, at some later date, realise a value 
from that scheme and doesnt make arrangements to return it to Scottish Widows. But Ive 
noted that Scottish Widows is attempting to recover the funds from the occupational scheme. 
Its clearly willing to accept any funds that can be recovered. 
This would be consistent with the principle of restoring Miss W to the position she should 
have been in and could minimise any further complications for her. Its a matter for Miss W to 
discuss with Scottish Widows at the relevant time, as Im not in a position to make a decision 
here about issues that havent yet occurred and may not occur. 
Ive considered the points about financial vulnerability, but I note that Miss W is now beyond 
the age at which she can access tax-free cash and income from her pension. And if she 
doesnt wish to stay with Scottish Widows she can also transfer elsewhere. Payment in cash 
is not a reason to circumvent the normal steps Miss W would always have needed to take if 
she decided to access her pension or transfer it. 
Receiving all of the compensation in cash at once could actually have a more adverse 
impact on any state benefits Mrs W may be entitled to. Where Scottish Widows is able to 
reinstate Miss Ws policy, I dont think its reasonable for it to put her into potentially less well 
understood financial position instead.
Miss Ws financial position changed as a result of Scottish Widows error. I acknowledge that 
her position wont be entirely restored if she has to meet the costs of her CMC for 
representing her. But I dont think it would be fair to hold Scottish Widows responsible for 
those costs.The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt routinely make awards for the costs of using a 
representative, apart from in exceptional cases. For the same reason CMCs are required to 
inform consumers that they have an alternative route of pursuing their complaint, and taking 
it if necessary to our service, free of charge. I see nothing in the circumstances of Miss Ws 
case to suggest it is exceptional.
I understand that Miss Ws representative has misgivings that the complaint wouldnt have 
been upheld by Scottish Widows straight away, if it hadnt been raised by a CMC. Its 
provided no evidence to demonstrate this but, in any event, Scottish Widows is required to 
provide referral rights to our service where the complaint would then be considered again on 
an impartial basis.
If Miss W is now unhappy about her CMCs costs, or unable to pay them, that is a matter 
between her and her CMC; not Scottish Widows. 
The FCA appears to have already taken this issue into account in drafting the section of its 
handbook regulating CMCs from 1 April 2019. CMCOB 4.2.9R says that, in the case of 
pension-related claims, the CMC should warn the customer that its fee may become payable 
before they have access to their pension, and the customer will, where necessary, need to 
pay the CMCs fees from their own funds. Its clear Miss Ws CMC is aware of this and I can 
see it has disclosed it, as expected by the FCA, in its terms and conditions with Miss W.
Im satisfied Scottish Widows has demonstrated that it reinstated Miss Ws policy at the 
appropriate value. What happened to the unit price between 2018 and 2020 has no bearing 
on whether Scottish Widows applied the correct price on the day it reinstated the policy. 
Scottish Widows administers its UK All Share Tracker fund, so I have no reason to doubt its 
ability to report the price of that fund accurately. Graphs of unit prices are freely available 
from industry sources such as Morningstar or Trustnet. The CMC is free to review these. 
Having done so myself, I see no reason to be concerned about Scottish Widows 
calculations.
Im also satisfied from the confirmation Scottish Widows issued that has reinstated the 
policy, but there may be an issue if Miss W was due to receive an annual statement by now 
and has not received one. Miss W is free to call Scottish Widows at any time to ask what the 
current value of her policy is and make sure she is set up correctly to receive statements at 
the right address.
Scottish Widows sent Miss W a cheque for £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by a transfer it agreed she would not otherwise have made. As this is broadly comparable to 
other similar awards we have made following failures by a business to carry out due 
diligence checks, Im not going to make any further award to Miss W.
My final decision
If Miss W has not banked Scottish Widows cheque for £250, it should ensure that it is 
reissued. But Im not otherwise upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman