DRN-4115412
The complaint
Mr J complains about the settlement that Advantage Insurance Company Limited offered 
when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy following the theft of his car.
 
What happened
Mr Js car was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. Advantage offered him £23,890, 
less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr J was unhappy with this. He thought 
Advantage hadnt taken into account the rarity of the car and that it had seven seats. He 
thought it was worth closer to £30,000. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He saw that similar cars 
were sold for close to their advertised prices. He thought two of the motor trade guides we 
use undervalued the car. He thought a fairer valuation would be an average of the two 
highest valuations provided by the motor trade guides. He thought Advantage should 
increase its settlement by £3,449, with interest. 
Advantage replied that the highest valuation was out of step with the others. It offered an 
average of the three lower valuations, £24,643. Mr J didnt accept this. He said Advantage 
should increase its settlement by £5,000 and it should take into account the cars seven 
seats. Mr J asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He said that hed 
seen similar cars advertised for about £30,000 and so he was disappointed with Advantages 
offer. 
I can see that Mr Js policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Advantages settlement offer was too low to be fair and reasonable. 
So Ive checked how he came to this conclusion. 
I can see that he looked in the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, 
age, mileage, condition and optional extras as Mr Js car at the date of its loss. And he found 
four of the guides provided valuations. 
Mr J had provided adverts for similar cars advertised at higher prices. But we usually dont 
find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
But Mr J also said that similar cars were advertised and sold at significantly higher prices 
than Advantages settlement. I can see that similar cars were sold at close to their asking 
prices. So I think it would be fair and reasonable to consider advertised prices on this 
occasion as a benchmark to validate the guides valuations. 
Advantages revised offer was based on an average including a valuation from a third guide. 
But this was based on private sale figures rather than retail transacted prices. So I dont 
think it would be fair to consider this. 
In keeping with our approach, Id normally expect the Investigator to take an average of the 
four valuations he found. But we discount any valuations that are out of step with the others. 
Mr J has pointed out that his car had seven seats, not five, and he thought this should be 
taken into account. The Investigator saw that two guides didnt provide an increase in value 
for the car having seven seats, unlike the other two guides and advertisements. And they 
were significantly lower than the other two valuations and advertised prices. 
So I think a fair valuation would be to discount these two lower valuations and take an 
average of the two higher ones.
The average of the two higher valuations the Investigator found was £27,339. Im satisfied 
this took into account the specific extra Mr J thought Advantage had ignored and the current 
market for similar cars. Advantage had offered Mr J £23,890. And so I dont agree that 
Advantages offer was reasonable. And I require it to increase this to £27,339, adding 
interest on the difference as Mr J has been without his money for some time. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr J £3,449 further in settlement of 
his claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of 
the initial settlement to the date of payment. 
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman