DRN-2918270
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy as he feels Oakbrook Finance Limited  trading as Likely Loans  provided 
him with a loan when it shouldnt have. Mr S said the loan was unaffordable for him.
What happened
On 31 October 2019 Mr S applied for a loan with Likely Loans. And Likely Loans agreed to 
lend the £2,000 Mr S asked for. This loan agreement for was a period of 24 months  with 
Mr S due to pay £3,145.20 by the end of the term. The monthly payment towards the loan 
was £131.05, and the APR on the loan being 59.9%. 
Mr S has said Likely Loans did the wrong thing in lending money to him. He has explained 
that his credit rating at the time was poor, and he already had outstanding financial 
commitments. And, that on the same date he applied for this loan, he had applied for loans 
with other providers and been declined. So, he said when applying for this loan he was 
feeling desperate to obtain funds. Given his circumstances at the time of applying for the 
loan, Mr S has said Likely Loans should have realised that the loan would have been 
unaffordable for him. And so, it should have declined his application. 
Mr S has explained that he paid 12 of the agreed monthly payments. And when he had done 
that, he worked out the difference between what he had already paid towards the balance of 
the loan and the £2,000 he had originally borrowed. This came to £427.40. Mr S paid this 
amount to Likely Loans, and asked that it close the loan, and remove information from his 
credit file.
Likely Loans looked into Mr S complaint, and said it was satisfied it had lent to him 
responsibly. It explained that it had considered Mr S income, verifying this using standard 
industry tools. And that it checked Mr S credit file, as well as used an estimation of his living 
expenses using Office of National Statistics data (ONS). It said completing these checks 
showed the £131.05 a month was affordable for Mr S.
In addition to this, Likely Loans said it would not be closing Mr S account. It noted Mr S had 
agreed to the terms of the loan, which included the interest due on the borrowing. It noted 
that because Mr S made an additional payment of £427.40 on the loan, there was an 
overpayment on the account of £165.30. It said it could apply this amount to the account, as 
a partial settlement, if Mr S let it know he wanted this to be done.
Mr S didnt think Likely Loans response was fair, and so he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
Likely Loans had carried out proportionate checks when deciding whether to lend to Mr S. 
And they didnt think the checks Likely Loans carried out suggested the lending was 
unaffordable or unsustainable. But instead showed Mr S had sufficient disposable income 
after his financial commitments, to enable him to sustainably repay the loan. 
Mr S didnt agree. He provided a copy of his bank statement for the month that he took out 
the lending with Likely Loans. He noted that this bank statement showed he had other short-
term lending, including lending he took out a couple of days before his application with Likely 
Loans. And he said he used the lending to pay off other short-term loans. Mr S said this kept 
him in a cycle of debt, with him starting every month with a deficit in funds. 
Our investigator told Mr S that the checks Likely Loans needed to do had to be proportionate 
to the borrowing being sought. So, that didnt mean Likely Loans had to check bank 
statements. The investigator felt the checks Likely Loans completed in this case were 
proportionate to the borrowing Mr S was looking to take out. And so, it acted reasonably 
when agreeing to lend to him. 
Mr S remained in disagreement. So, his complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Its also important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, 
Ive needed to consider the below key issues;
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to make repayment of the loan in a sustainable way?
If Likely Loans did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of 
whether to lend to Mr S?
If Likely Loans didnt complete the above, would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown Mr S would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable 
way?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to the loan provided to Mr S in October 2019.
Reasonable and proportionate checks?
In October 2019, Likely Loans was required to carry out a reasonable assessment of 
whether Mr S could afford to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. And when 
carrying out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks had to be borrower 
focused. So, this means Likely Loans had to consider the impact the lending would have on 
Mr S  not just how likely it was that Likely Loans would receive its money back by the end 
of the term. 
As above, Likely Loans also had to make sure the checks were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the loan applied for. So, checks could include a number of things, including 
 but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history, 
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and 
the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in October 2019. To do this, Ive looked 
at what checks Likely Loans completed, and what information it gathered at the time of lending, to see whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for Likely Loans to be 
confident the lending would be sustainable for Mr S.
And having done so, Im satisfied Likely Loans did complete proportionate checks, before 
agreeing to lend to Mr S in this instance.
Ive seen a copy of the information Mr S provided when he completed his application for the 
lending. In this Mr S noted that his income was £16,668 per annum. Likely Loans has said it 
did also complete a verification check on this information. It used standard industry tools, 
which looks to see whether the disclosed income is consistent with the turnover of the 
consumers bank accounts. And the check came back showing it was. Likely Loans has 
provided me with a document which shows this collected credit data. So, Im satisfied Likely 
Loans took steps to understand Mr S income.
In terms of expenditure  Likely Loans completed a credit file check. The active accounts 
Mr S had in place totalled four at the time of the lending  this being two loans, a current 
account, and a credit agreement with a communications company. Likely Loans saw that the 
payments for these were all up to date. And it has said the checks didnt indicate any 
concerns with dependency in borrowing. With no other borrowing showing as being taken 
out since November 2018  a year prior to this loan application. Ive seen a copy of Mr S 
credit report and agree this is the information the credit check showed. 
In addition to this, Likely Loans calculated Mr S likely monthly living expenses, using data 
from the Office of National statistics. And it included a £50 buffer on top this in its 
considerations. After taking into account Mr S current credit commitments, living expenses, 
the buffer and the monthly payment for this loan, Likely Loans said the information showed a 
disposable income of £307.37. And given this, it was satisfied the checks showed Mr S could 
repay the loan sustainably. 
Mr S has said that if Likely Loans had asked for bank statements prior to its decision to lend, 
this would have provided a different picture of the matter. And that may be the case. But 
there is no requirement on Likely Loans to have checked bank statements. Rather, Likely 
Loans needed to complete a reasonable assessment of Mr S affordability, doing so in a 
proportionate way. And I think that the amount the loan was for and the length of it, the 
checks completed were indeed proportionate. So, Im satisfied Likely Loans acted correctly 
here.
Was a fair decision made, in respect of whether to lend to Mr S?
As Im satisfied proportionate checks were carried out in this case, I need to decide whether, 
in light of the information gathered, a fair decision was made by agreeing to lend to Mr S. 
Ive thought carefully about this. And I think Likely Loans did make a fair decision to lend, 
based on what those proportionate checks showed.
The checks completed did suggest Mr S would be left with a reasonable level of disposable 
income after the income and expenditure checks completed. This meaning that Likely Loans 
wouldnt be leaving Mr S in a position where he was struggling for funds.
It is true that the credit file showed a large amount of borrowing previously - which could 
suggest a dependence on credit. And there were two defaults noted on the credit file  one 
from 2016 and the other from 2018. 
But, Mr S borrowing had reduced significantly since that time. With (other than the active 
credit mentioned above), the last loan being taken out and settled a year before this one. 
And the remainder of the borrowing being fairly low. So, the file didnt suggest any dependence on credit at that point. The credit file showed that the lending Mr S currently had 
was all up to date too. 
Given that I dont think the checks showed any cause for concern about lending to Mr S, I 
also think it made a fair decision to lend to Mr S on this occasion. 
Mr S has said he had applied for a number of loans the same day he took out the ones with 
Likely Loans, and these had been declined. And he had taken out lending shortly before this 
loan. And that may have been the case. But I cant see that on the credit file, or that Likely 
Loans would have had any awareness of it when it agreed to lend to Mr S. So, I dont 
consider this makes a difference to the outcome of this case.
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in any other way?
Ive thought about whether Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
And I dont think it did. Im satisfied it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. And 
that these checks suggested to Likely Loans that Mr S would be able to repay the loan, 
without being placed into undue difficulty. 
Mr S has mentioned that complaints raised about other lenders, and them providing 
borrowing to him had been upheld. But I need to consider this complaint and the individual 
circumstances of this. And for the reasons above, I dont think Likely Loans acted unfairly.  
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Oakbrook Finance Limited  trading as Likely Loans, to any anything more in respect of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman