DRN-4506607
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (Accredited) decision 
to decline their claim under their car insurance policy. 
Mr S has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs S or   
Mr S as Mr S throughout the decision.   
What happened
Mr S says, while driving along a road, he came across a ford. He says he stopped his car to 
assess the situation before deciding to cross the ford. He says there was a sign indicating a 
ford but no warning about the depth  and whether its excessive. Mr S says his car is a SUV 
which naturally sits high off the ground. He says he started driving across the ford at very 
slow speed and, in attempting to cross it, the engine cut out, so he claimed against his 
policy. 
Accredited declined Mr Ss claim on the basis they dont accept Mr S took reasonable steps 
to safeguard his car. They said Mr S decided it was safe to drive his car through a body of 
water without knowing its depth. They said he couldve turned around and returned to the 
journey on the main road, but he made the conscious decision to drive into the water. 
Accredited referred to the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy and said Mr S failed to 
comply with a condition which refers to deliberate loss or damage caused to a vehicle 
caused by anybody insured by the policy. Mr S complained about Accrediteds decision and 
they responded and maintained their decision to decline the claim for the same reasons.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and Mr S. She thought Accrediteds decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable and recommended they reassess the claim further and 
pay £150 compensation. Accredited disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The main dispute here relates to Accrediteds decision to decline the claim 
 and central to that dispute is whether Mr S failed to comply with the terms and conditions 
of the policy by acting in a manner which led to deliberate loss or damage to his car and not 
taking reasonable steps to protect his car from loss or damage. So Ive considered all the 
information to determine whether Accrediteds decision to decline the claim is fair. 
My starting point is Mr Ss car insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and under the heading Section 1 and 2: Damage to your car (whatever the 
cause) it says, Deliberate loss or damage to your car caused by anybody insured by this 
policy. In a separate section, and under the heading Taking care of your car it says, You 
or any insured driver must take all reasonable steps to: Protect your car from loss or 
damage In support of their decision to decline the claim, Accredited say Mr S; decided it 
was safe to drive his car through a body of water without knowing its depth, couldve turned 
around and returned to the journey on the main road, and made the conscious decision to 
drive into the water. 
 
If an insurer turns down a claim because the consumer failed to take reasonable care, there 
needs to be evidence to show the consumer acted in a way that amounted to recklessness. 
The policy doesnt define reasonable care. The test of recklessness we use is set out in the 
leading legal case on reasonable care  Sofi v Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds 
Rep.559. For Accredited to be able to reasonably turn down the claim on the basis that Mr S 
failed to take reasonable care there needs to be evidence to show he acted in a way that 
amounted to recklessness. That means Accredited needs to show Mr S recognised a risk 
but took it anyway by taking measures which he knew were inadequate or no measures at 
all. 
 
So, Ive thought about whether, in this instance, Mr S recognised that there was a risk of the 
engine cutting out by travelling across the ford but still decided to take that risk. In these 
specific circumstances, I dont think that was the case and I say this for a number of 
reasons. 
During the first notification of loss call, Mr S describes the incident circumstances and 
explains he travelled through a ford and water got into the engine. He says he was driving 
along a stretch of road and he came to some water. He says, as he went through the water, 
his car was fine but, as he started coming out of the water, the engine cut out. He says his 
back wheels were still in the water at this point and when he tried restarting his car it 
wouldnt start. He says the water was still coming up, so he cleared the air filter to get his car 
started and moved it. Mr S says this then allowed other cars to then travel through the ford. 
A further, and more detailed interview then follows, during which Mr S explains he made a 
wrong turn when following his sat-nav. He says the sat-nav then recalculated the route and 
he continued along this route and came across the ford. He says there was a sign indicating 
a ford but there were no signs warning of flooding. Mr S says he stopped and looked at the 
water to assess the situation. He explains immediately prior to entering the water he did 
come to a complete stop and then entered the water at 2-3mph. Mr S explains before 
entering the water, there was no way of seeing how deep the water was. He says he did 
notice the water hadnt overflowed along the sides and there wasnt any flooding to the 
surrounding field, so he assumed the water was shallow and safe to travel through. Mr S 
says he did witness another car going through the ford and, on his approach to it, hed 
passed other vehicles which he assumed had come through the ford. He says he later found 
out from a local resident theres a dip in the middle of the ford and vehicles do regularly get 
stuck there when theres rain. 
  
So, taking this all into account, I dont believe Accredited have demonstrated Mr S caused 
deliberate damage to his car or didnt take reasonable steps to protect his car from damage. 
The first point I would make is that theres no dispute there was a warning sign indicating a 
ford along the stretch of road Mr S was travelling along. Ive seen the image showing this, 
and its a red triangle sign - meaning its a warning sign - and in this case its to warn drivers 
of a water crossing ahead. But it doesnt mean a driver should never, under any 
circumstances, attempt to cross it or that its prohibited. There are certain weather conditions 
which might make crossing the ford more hazardous so it would be for a driver to carefully judge whether its safe to cross. Theres no dispute that Mr S didnt know the depth of the 
water, so Ive thought about the factors Mr S did take into account when deciding whether to 
enter the ford. 
The information shows Mr S assessed the situation which took into account the area 
surrounding the ford. In his testimony to Accredited, he says the water hadnt overflowed into 
the surrounding field. So, while I accept Mr S didnt know the precise depth of the water, this 
shows he did take into account factors which would help assess the likely depth and whether 
it was safe to continue. He also considered his specific car and says, given he was in a 4x4 
SUV, he assumed it would be safe to travel through. Mr Ss car is a SUV style car  and one 
of the features of such cars is that they have raised ground clearance. Mr S says this 
featured in his assessment when deciding whether to travel through the ford  and I dont 
think its unreasonable to take this feature into account. 
Mr S also says he wasnt familiar with the road, and it was the first time hed travelled along 
it. He says he later found out from a local resident theres a dip in the middle of the ford and 
vehicles do regularly get stuck there when theres rain. I think thats relevant in the 
circumstances here as it demonstrates Mr S wouldnt have been aware there was a dip or 
that cars regularly get stuck there. Having knowledge of these factors prior to entering the 
ford might suggest Mr S took a heightened risk in driving through the ford. But, having not 
travelled through this stretch of road previously, Im persuaded by Mr Ss testimony that, 
having passed other cars on his approach to the ford he assumed theyd travelled through it, 
and it was therefore safe for him to travel through it in his SUV car.          
Mr S also says in the interview that the incident happened around 10.30am and there was 
light rain at the time. I havent seen any information which suggests it was dark or visibility 
was reduced to such an extent that Mr S couldnt have made a reasonable assessment of 
the situation. So, I cant say Mr S acted recklessly and proceeded to travel through the ford 
without giving any due regard to carrying out an assessment on whether it was safe to 
proceed. The information shows he was able to take into account factors based on what he 
could see. 
I can see Accredited say the ford sign was clearly signposted on the approach to the ford, so 
Mr S wouldve known of the risk of passing through it. They say the issue here is that Mr S 
was aware of the potential risk of driving through the ford and continued to do so and made 
an incorrect assumption that his car would pass through it undamaged. They say the fact 
that Mr S attempted to drive through the ford means his actions were careless and he didnt 
therefore act appropriately to protect his car from damage. I do acknowledge the points 
made by Accredited, but Im not persuaded this demonstrates Mr S acted recklessly. Ive 
already mentioned why and how I think Mr S took reasonable steps in assessing the 
situation and the factors he took into account. Im further persuaded by Mr Ss testimony 
when interviewed that he stopped to assess the situation and then drove at 2-3mph through 
the ford. I think this demonstrates Mr S did take reasonable steps to protect his car from 
damage. 
I can see Accredited also say Mr S couldve turned around and returned to the journey along 
the main road. I acknowledge it could be argued this step couldve been taken when Mr S 
approached the ford, but that would be with the benefit of hindsight  and that isnt the test 
Im applying here when deciding this complaint. Im looking at whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. I agree there was a degree of risk involved in Mr S deciding to pass 
through the ford, but I cant say he took a risk anyway by taking measures which he knew 
were inadequate or no measures at all. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr S did 
acknowledge a risk, but Im persuaded by his testimony that he assessed that risk by taking 
into account relevant and reasonable factors to assess whether it was safe to travel through the ford. And Im also satisfied that he took measures to address that risk by driving slowly 
and cautiously through the ford. 
In these circumstances, I think Accredited have unreasonably declined the claim. So I think 
the fair outcome is for Accredited to reconsider the claim. Its clear from the information Ive 
seen Mrs S and Mr S have been caused upset and inconvenience as a result of Accrediteds 
decision to decline the claim. During the interview, Mr S explains theyre left with one car in 
their household, and he has explained to our service the inconvenience this has caused. Its 
clear the decision to decline the claim has upset Mrs S and Mr S particularly as theyve 
maintained Mr S took reasonable care prior to, and while, driving through the ford. Taking 
this into account, I think Accredited should pay Mrs S and Mr S £150 compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Accredited have unfairly declined Mrs S and Mr Ss claim. So, 
Accredited should reconsider Mrs S and Mr Ss claim further, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. It is of course open to them to make any other further enquiries 
they feel are necessary, but I dont think its reasonable for them to use the reasons they 
have to justify their decision to decline the claim. Accredited should also pay Mrs S and Mr S 
£150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd must take 
the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman