DRN-3547567
The complaint
Mr S said Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows: 
Date taken Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
14/9/2021 £2,000 24 months £154.58 £3,709.92 paid 
15.12.21
Mr S mainly said that at the time of applying, he had recently taken out three other large 
short term, high interest loans and missed payments on loans he had at the time. He said he 
provided bank statements which showed poor management of his finances, he withdrew 
£1,000s monthly and he always had a very low balance. He also complained that Everyday 
Loans failed to ask him for a password hed set up on the account to protect against fraud. 
Everyday Loans didnt uphold Mr Ss irresponsible lending complaint  it said it had 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks and that the loan was sustainable over the 
loan term as Mr S had disposable income. 
But Everyday Loans admitted that on two occasions it failed to correctly request Mr Ss 
password. It upheld this part of his complaint and apologised. Everyday Loans offered to pay 
Mr S £100 compensation for this.
Mr S didnt feel that Everyday Loans had done enough overall to settle his complaint so he 
came to us. 
Our adjudicator investigated and upheld both parts of Mr Ss complaint. 
Everyday Loans disagreed. It mainly said (and Im summarising here) that although our 
adjudicator had agreed it had carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend, she 
had looked at information it didnt have available at the time and drawn her conclusions 
based on that information. Everyday Loans asked for an ombudsmans review. The 
complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
provided this loan. Ill explain why I say this.
Everyday Loans was required to lend responsibly. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Checks had to be borrower-focused. So 
Everyday Loans had to think about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any 
difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr S. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday 
Loans to think only about the likelihood of it getting its money back - it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mr S .
Everyday Loans asked for some information from Mr S before it approved the loan including 
details of his income  which it said it took steps to verify - and his monthly spending. 
Everyday Loans recorded that Mr Ss monthly income was around £1,930. 
It reviewed his credit file to understand his credit history and existing commitments. It 
included an allowance for Mr Ss housing costs. Everyday Loans also took into account 
statistical information and factored into its calculations an amount that reflected the typical 
monthly expenditure someone in Mr Ss position might reasonably expect to pay according 
to national UK averages worked out by the Office for National Statistics. As well as this, 
Everyday Loans included an extra buffer for any minor fluctuations in Mr Ss income or 
expenses or in case he needed to meet an unplanned expense. 
It also asked about the purpose of the loan and understood it would be used for debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mr S said he would use the loan to repay other debt. Based 
on the information it gathered, Everyday Loans concluded he could afford this loan and that 
Mr S would be better off if he took out the loan as it would boost his disposable income 
(which it worked out was currently just £78 or so each month) and leave Mr S with around 
£151 spare cash monthly. 
So Everyday Loans concluded it was fair to lend to Mr S. 
But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont think that 
Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision when it provided this loan. 
I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account what Mr Ss credit history and the 
information it saw in the bank statements revealed about his overall financial situation. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But I think Everyday Loans couldve seen from the credit report it obtained that within the last 
12 months Mr S had taken out three loans with other providers of expensive credit. It looked 
like a loan amount of £5,370 taken out in June 2021 had been used in part to repay other 
loans that were cleared the next day. I think this potentially suggested that previous attempts 
to consolidate borrowing hadnt been as successful as planned if Mr S now found himself 
needing to borrow again to repay outstanding debt. As well as this, I think Everyday Loans 
could see that Mr Ss credit card had been close to its credit limit throughout the 12 months 
period it could see in the credit report it obtained. When the credit limit had increased from 
£200 to £700 Mr S had maxed out the card up to its new limit and hed been stuck more or 
less at this level, making no real inroads into repaying the card balance for the last 7 months 
or so. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr S likely wouldnt have as much pay as Everyday Loans had 
thought, given that she had seen bank statements showing that in two months out of three 
he had been paid £1,778  so she felt this figure more realistically gave a better indication of 
his typical salary. She couldnt see any other benefits were paid into his account. I think its 
fair to say that Everyday Loans assumption that Mr S was likely to be able to rely on earning 
around £1,930 didnt look realistic. It hasnt shown me how it arrived at this figure and I think 
it wouldve been fairer to rely on the information it saw showing he had actually received a 
lower amount and used this figure - £1,778 - when assessing affordability. 
Everyday Loans worked out that it needed to allow for Mr S having to pay around £1,091 per 
month to reflect his overall contribution towards living expenses. His housing costs were 
shown as £272 per month and his credit expenses, as seen in the credit checks Everyday 
Loans obtained, were at least £488. I think Everyday Loans could also see information on 
his bank statements showing that Mr S was paying another high cost lender as well, not 
listed in its credit checks. All in all, this suggested that in reality Mr S actually had a monthly 
shortfall as his likely expenditure exceeded his typical income. And that was reflected in the 
bank statements Everyday Loans saw during the loan application process showing that in 
August 2021 he paid £363 more out of the account than he paid in.  
This leads me to conclude that, despite what Everyday Loans income and expenditure 
assessment suggested, the overall picture showed that Mr S was struggling to manage 
money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that he was already 
experiencing serious financial difficulty and reliant on expensive borrowing to manage his 
debt. So it shouldve realised that further lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for 
him. 
I think this is borne out also by the fact that Everyday Loans should have realised that with a 
typical monthly income of £1,778 and credit costs of at least £488, Mr S was already paying 
around 27% of his net income just on servicing his existing debt. To me, that was a clear 
warning sign that he was over-reliant on credit. With the monthly repayments for his new 
loan on top of this, Mr S would now face having to pay well over a third of his typical net pay 
towards debt repayment. 
Given the loan term, and the evidence that he was already struggling financially, I think this 
was such a significant proportion of Mr Ss monthly disposable income Everyday Loans 
couldnt reasonably say it was likely that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way. All the signs were that Mr S was over-stretched financially and this loan would mean 
paying an even bigger proportion of his income towards servicing debt. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan would be used for debt 
consolidation. But this doesnt affect my overall view. Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Mr S used the loan as it paid the loan balance 
to him. And even if Mr S had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think 
Everyday Loans had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position 
sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
Notably, his consolidation plans didnt include his two largest outstanding loans. 
I think the scale of his overall debt compared to the much lesser value of the loan and the 
extent of his evident reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that he would 
remain in serious financial trouble regardless. 
As well as this, I think it looks like one of the loans Everyday Loans included in its 
affordability assessment wouldnt have been an ongoing cost for Mr S in any event as it was 
noted down as paid off with a nil settlement figure  even though it was included in the 
consolidation. If thats right, this means Mr S wouldve saved on the £98 monthly cost of that 
loan without borrowing this loan. The other loan Everyday Loans expected Mr S to 
consolidate had £306 outstanding and cost just £15 per month. The two public utilities were 
noted as costing £32 and £83 per month. 
So effectively, Everyday Loans had information showing that the £2,000 loan it was 
providing to Mr S, that could cost him an extra £1,709 in interest over the loan term and 
which would cost him around £154 per month, would save him loan repayments of just £15 
per month and the balance would help with ongoing bills of £115 per month. In other words, 
he would end up needing to repay more expensive credit overall plus hed be paying an 
extra £24 or so per month. I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that even if used for its 
stated purpose, providing this loan to Mr S looked likely to be detrimental to him. 
So, for all these reasons, I plan to say that I uphold Mr Ss complaint that he should not have 
been given the loan and that Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things 
right.
I can appreciate why Everyday Loans felt our adjudicators approach didnt reflect its 
understanding of what proportionate checks showed. But I think our adjudicator reached a 
fair and reasonable outcome and I hope that setting things out the way I have done is 
helpful. I invite Everyday Loans to reconsider its approach to Mr Ss lending complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr S hasnt commented on that and I agree with our adjudicator that the offer it made in 
respect of his complaint about its admitted failure to make use of his password after hed 
asked it to do this, was fair. 
So I dont think I need to say more about this. 
If Mr S wishes to take up Everyday Loans offer then I suggest he makes contact direct with 
the lender, if he hasnt already done so. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S has confirmed he has nothing further to add.
Everyday Loans has asked me to reconsider the complaint and still feels that the loan was 
affordable and responsibly lent. In particular, it said that:
when assessing affordability, it relied on Mr S earning the lowest figure seen on his 
bank statements (around £1,778 per month) and receiving a benefit payment of 
around £152 per month on top of this. It also made an allowance for him being 
responsible for dependants when thinking about his likely expenditure
Everyday Loans allowed for all Mr Ss credit commitments 
there is no ruling or guidelines on debt to income ratio. Everyday Loans affordability 
checks indicated there was disposable income and there was no evidence in the 
bank statements or credit file to suggest Mr S was in any financial difficulties 
a paid-off loan was included in error in the affordability assessment but the overall 
amount after debt consolidation was still correct 
part of the loan was consolidation - the rest was for a car
although in August 2021 Mr S paid £363 more out of his bank account than he paid 
in, it looked like funds had been transferred to another account rather than spent on 
outgoings. Also, the previous month shows outgoings £172 less than deposits, 
indicating no financial stress on the bank statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Everyday Loans for its detailed response to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. I have highlighted above what seem to me to be the main points of concern raised 
and Id like to assure Everyday Loans that I've thought carefully about everything again 
before coming to my final decision. 
Im grateful to Everyday Loans for clarifying the figures used in its affordability assessment, 
and I agree that it is fair to say it made allowance for all Mr Ss credit commitments - but 
Everyday Loans hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. 
I say this because Everyday Loans hasnt persuaded me that it properly took into account 
the bigger picture or thought carefully enough about the impact of its loan on Mr S and 
whether it was fair to lend. I dont agree that it saw nothing to suggest financial difficulty. Mr S was already spending 
such a significant portion of his income on servicing his existing credit commitments that this 
should have raised serious concerns about his financial situation as this is a hallmark of 
someone already over-reliant on borrowing. And despite the reason hed given to explain his 
borrowing record, the way Mr S was using credit, which Everyday Loans couldve seen from 
his credit history, suggested he was, in reality, borrowing to repay other debt  a large loan 
he took out just three months earlier in June 2021 looks like it was used to clear another 
expensive loan. Borrowing to repay other debt is a clear sign that debt has become 
unsustainable. 
Everyday Loans understood that most of the loan was going to be spent and just £306 or so 
would go towards debt consolidation. So it was aware that this loan would significantly add 
to Mr Ss total indebtedness. I think the scale of his overall (and mounting) debt compared to 
the lesser value of the loan and the extent of his evident reliance on taking out expensive 
credit would suggest that Mr S would remain in a position of needing to continue borrowing 
in order to manage his debt. I dont think anything Everyday Loans saw was enough to tip 
the balance and make it think that this loan would be sustainably affordable. As I see things, 
it was unsurprising when Mr S contacted Everyday Loans, the next month after taking out 
the loan, to tell the lender that he had now approached a debt charity. 
I think it shouldve been reasonably foreseeable that this loan would most likely be 
unsustainably affordable for Mr S over the loan term. That seems to be further borne out by 
the fact that Mr S told us he borrowed money from a family member in order to repay this 
loan early. 
I appreciate that Everyday Loans takes a different view to me. But with all these things in 
mind, I still think its fair on balance to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more 
fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman