DRN-4473265
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited arent fairly calculating the policy 
benefit following a claim hes made on an income protection policy.
What happened
Mr H has claimed on his income protection policy. He says that Aviva wont take his full 
income from the 12 months before his incapacity into account and theyve restricted it to 
50% of his company profits. 
Aviva said they werent contractually required to take into account Mr Hs dividends but did 
so to treat him fairly. They explained that the dividend Mr H paid in the relevant tax year was 
made up of retained profits and reflected income from previous years, not the profits 
generated during the pre-incapacity period. Aviva maintained their position was fair. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think Aviva had treated Mr H 
unfairly. She didnt think Aviva was required to include the dividends based on the policy 
terms but had chosen to do so. She thought theyd fairly calculated the benefit based on the 
available evidence. 
Mr H didnt agree. He set out the policy definition of earnings and said that it didnt preclude 
dividends. He said that Aviva wasnt using the right figures. So, the complaint was passed to 
me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions has a definition of normal earnings. For self-employed 
earnings this is defined as: 
Your gross personal income from your business during the period of twelve months 
immediately preceding the onset of incapacity, less any amount allowable against 
income tax as expenses, before deduction for income tax. 
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint because:
Theres no contractual requirement for Aviva to include the dividends in their 
calculation but I think its fair theyve agreed to take this into account in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Aviva says that a material proportion of the relevant dividend was made up from the 
prior years retained profits. Therefore, it reflects earnings earned in previous years 
and not profits generated during the pre-incapacity period. I think thats a reasonable 
approach which fairly reflects the policy terms. 
The policy doesnt specifically exclude dividends and does refer to income from your 
business. But I dont think that detracts from the overall term which refers to gross 
personal income from your business during the period of twelve months immediately 
preceding the onset of incapacity. I think Aviva has fairly limited the benefit to reflect 
profit earned in the pre-incapacity year.  
Ive considered Mr Hs reference to an internal review of his claim which says that it 
is proposed that the full tax return amount was used. But that was a proposal and I 
think it reflects that Aviva was reviewing and considering the options available. So, I 
dont think that means Aviva has to maintain one proposed position made during its 
handling of the claim.
I appreciate that there have been ongoing developments since Mr H complained. 
However, my decision focuses on what happened up until Mr H made his complaint 
and Aviva responded to it. And, having considered the available evidence, I think 
Aviva have acted fairly.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman