DRN-1584025
 
Complaint
Mrs G, who is represented by a third party, says she was mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a store card. She says the PPI was added to the store card without her 
knowledge.
Mrs G has suggested that she bought the PPI in June 2000 but from the information weve 
received it looks more likely that it was in fact sold in June 1994. 
The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a change in the 
company which is now responsible for answering these types of complaint. The company 
now responsible is called AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision.  
Background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mrs G disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
AXA says its records indicate the policy was in the store when Mrs G was taking out her 
store card. Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at 
length to the company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were 
generally used. The AXA description of how this sale took place is in accordance with my 
understanding of how many consumers bought this type of PPI with store cards at around 
that time.
Unfortunately, given that the sale happened so long ago, we dont have a copy of the actual 
credit agreement Mrs G filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I know its likely there 
was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This would most likely have invited her to 
either sign her name - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. It follows that I think 
she consented to the PPI by signing at this point. I think shed have been equally free to not 
have asked for the PPI on the form. 
It is also possible that a member of staff filled out the form for her. This could explain why 
Mrs G might consider that the PPI was added without her knowledge. But I would still have 
expected her to check the credit agreement before signing it. These things, taken together, make me think its more likely Mrs G agreed to add the PPI 
policy to her store card, back in 1994.
My experience is that AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Mrs G to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. I simply cant say whether this was done because theres nothing to refer to. But I 
think its just as likely that important information was given, as it wasnt. And I think its fair for 
me to assume Mrs G would have at least been sent something by the third party insurer 
explaining the cover and what it did.
Mrs G told us she had some sickness protection already with her job  being for at least 6 
months but for less than 12 months - implying she didnt need any PPI. I understand why 
shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits Mrs G says she enjoyed. 
But Im afraid these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use.
Ive checked that Mrs G was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been in addition to any 
other means Mrs G had in place at the time.
For me to uphold Mrs Gs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I just dont have 
that evidence. So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman