DRN-3972818
The complaint
The executor for the estate of the late Mr M complains that due to delays and poor 
communication by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, the value of the late 
Mr Ms investment portfolio fell in value.
To put matters right he would like Hargreaves Lansdown to compensate the estate for the 
fall in the value of Mr Ms investments.
What happened
In early February 2022, an executor for the late Mr Ms estate notified Hargreaves Lansdown 
that Mr M had sadly passed away. Shortly afterwards the executor provided Hargreaves 
Lansdown with the original death certificate for the late Mr M. Hargreaves Lansdown 
returned this to the executor on 4 February 2022, with a covering letter setting out that there 
was a 30-working day timescale for it to issue an Estates Application Pack. 
The letter also explained that the holdings in the portfolio would remain invested and would 
therefore fluctuate in value. It noted that the executors could instruct Hargreaves Lansdown, 
using a Declaration and Indemnity form, to sell the assets and hold the proceeds in cash, 
pending distribution.
In early March 2022, the executor contacted Hargreaves Lansdown again. He explained that 
one of the beneficiaries of Mr Ms estate had asked him for an update. The executor 
explained in the call that as he was acting on behalf of the beneficiaries of Mr Ms estate, he 
wanted to make sure everything was proceeding correctly.
Shortly after the executor contacted Hargreaves Lansdown it issued an Estates Application 
Pack. The executor then contacted Hargreaves Lansdown with queries about completion of 
the forms in the pack. On 29 March 2022, Hargreaves Lansdown received the completed 
Declaration and Indemnity form, and the sale of Mr Ms investments was instructed that day. 
In mid-April 2022, Hargreaves Lansdown received the Grant of Probate and the following 
day it paid the proceeds from the sale of Mr Ms investments to the nominated bank account.
Unfortunately, the value of the late Mr Ms holdings had fallen by nearly £35,000 from the 
valuation that was provided at the date of Mr Ms death, and the date the investments were 
sold.
The executor complained to Hargreaves Lansdown about the fall in the value of the late Mr 
Ms investments. He said he had been told that Mr Ms account had been frozen at the date 
of his death. He said he had understood this to mean that  the valuation given at this time 
would now remain the same and be paid out to the beneficiaries once probate had been 
granted and was not told otherwise.
Hargreaves Lansdown apologised for any misunderstanding caused but noted that it had 
clearly set out, in writing, that the investments in Mr Ms portfolio would remain invested and 
would therefore fluctuate in value. However, as the executor had to chase it up before an 
Estates Application Pack was issued, it offered to pay the executor £250 for the trouble and 
upset the delay in providing the pack had caused.
The executor was not satisfied with Hargreaves Lansdowns response and referred the 
matter to this service. 
Our investigator said she was satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown had explained, in writing, 
on three separate occasions, that the late Mr Ms holdings would fluctuate in value as they 
were still invested.  She noted it had said online access to the account would be frozen, but 
it had also explained that this did not mean that the value of the portfolio was frozen. She 
also noted that Hargreaves Lansdown had explained that the investments could be sold if a 
completed Declaration and Indemnity form was returned to it.
The executor was not satisfied with our investigators view. He said that he would not have 
been able to sell the holdings until a Declaration and Indemnity form had been issued, as it 
was included in the Estates Application Pack. He said that as the pack had not been sent 
until 8 March 2022, he felt that, at the very least, Hargreaves Lansdown should compensate 
the estate for the fall in the value of the late Mr Ms portfolio between the date of death 
valuation and the value in early March 2022, the first time it would have been possible for 
him to give instructions for the holdings to be sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to the executors position, and I do understand why he feels Hargreaves 
Lansdown should pay the difference between the value of the portfolio at the date of Mr Ms 
death and the amount the estate received. But in order to uphold this complaint I would need 
to be satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown had done something wrong or acted incorrectly.
The executor has said that having spoken to Hargreaves Lansdown, he understood that the 
funds were frozen and that they wouldnt be subject to any market fluctuations after he 
notified Hargreaves Lansdown that Mr M had died in early February 2022.
I have very carefully considered the letters Hargreaves Lansdown sent to the executor after 
it had been notified that Mr M had died. I am mindful that it wrote to the executor three times, 
on 4 February 2022, and twice in early March 2022. Each time it confirmed that the value of 
the investments would fluctuate with market movements.
It also explained that online access to the late Mr Ms account was frozen, but not the value 
of the investments. It said, in the letter dated 4 February 2022:
Please be aware online access to [Mr Ms] accounts have been frozen. Any holdings will 
remain invested until they are distributed, or we receive a completed Declaration & 
Indemnity form from the estate executor or administrator to sell them, meaning their values 
will fluctuate.
Having carefully considered this matter, I am satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown did clearly 
set out that the holdings would remain invested and would fluctuate in value. 
I am mindful that the executor has told this service that he has dyslexia, and he had difficulty 
reading the letters sent by Hargreaves Lansdown. It is very unfortunate that the executor did 
not contact Hargreaves Lansdown to ask it to read the letters to him, or explain the contents 
if he was unsure about anything in the letters. But as there is nothing to suggest that 
Hargreaves Lansdown knew the executor would experience any difficulty reading the letters it sent, I cant reasonably hold it responsible for failing to make reasonable adjustments.
I have also listened to all the call recordings Hargreaves Lansdown has provided in 
connection with this complaint. Unfortunately, I wasnt able to find anything in the call 
recordings relating to freezing the late Mr Ms account. Based on the information I have 
been provided, I think it is more likely than not that there was a genuine misunderstanding 
on the part of the executor, and I think he thought the value of the late Mr Ms portfolio had 
been frozen, as well as the online access to his account. But I cant reasonably find 
Hargreaves Lansdown responsible for this misunderstanding.
I note that in his response to our investigators view the executor said he felt Hargreaves 
Lansdown should compensate the estate for the fall in the value of the late Mr Ms portfolio 
between the date of death valuation and the value in March 2022, when he received the 
Declaration and Indemnity form as part of the Estates Application Pack. He noted that this 
was the first time it would have been possible for him to give instructions for the holdings to 
be sold. 
I have carefully considered this point, but I am mindful that in the letter Hargreaves 
Lansdown sent to the executor dated 4 February 2022, it set out:
We will shortly be updating the account. Once we have done this a valuation of the portfolio 
held by [Mr M] will be sent, along with the forms needed to settle their accounts.
Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have not received these documents within 30 
working days of receipt of this letter. Due to the restrictions caused by COVID 19 we are 
working with reduced staff in the office, as a result our processing times have increased. We 
apologise for these delays, we know this is a difficult time, we value your support and ask for 
your patience.
In view of this, I am satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown explained that it was operating with 
reduced staffing levels in its office, and that the executor could expect to receive the pack 
within 30 working days. I note the pack was issued on 8 March 2022, within the time scale 
Hargreaves Lansdown had set out. As this is the case, I cant reasonably find that it acted 
incorrectly or treated the estate unfairly.
I must also take into account that there is nothing to show or suggest that the executor 
asked Hargreaves Lansdown to sell the investments before it received the Declaration and 
Indemnity form on 29 March 2022. 
I am also mindful that on the Declaration and Indemnity form completed by the executors 
they selected the option:
Please sell all holding in the deceaseds account(s) and hold the proceeds as cash pending 
closing instructions.
Both executors signed and dated this form to confirm their agreement with this instruction. In 
view of the option the executors selected on the Declaration and Indemnity form I think they 
ought reasonably to have understood that the holdings would be sold at their current market 
price.
I am also mindful that after the executor received the Declaration and Indemnity form (as 
part of the Estates Application pack) it was not returned to Hargreaves Lansdown until 29 
March 2022, despite it having been sent to the executor on 8 March 2022.
It is very unfortunate that the holdings in the late Mr Ms portfolio fell in value. But I cant require Hargreaves Lansdown to compensate the estate for the fall in the value of the 
holdings as I cannot reasonably find that it has acted incorrectly in this matter. I do 
understand that this is not the decision the executor was hoping for, but I hope my 
explanation will help him to understand why I cannot uphold this complaint.
I note that Hargreaves Lansdown has offered to pay the executor £250 for the trouble and 
upset the delay in providing the Estates Application Pack caused him. As our investigator 
explained, this service cant award compensation to a third party for any impact incurred to 
them personally, when representing an estate. However, I understand that the compensation 
offered by Hargreaves Lansdown is still available to the executor. I leave it to him to decide 
whether he now wishes to accept this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman