DRN-3115164
The complaint
Mr S complains that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) have mishandled his 
legal expenses insurance claim.
F&L use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance policy on their behalf, 
so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr S holds a legal expenses insurance policy with F&L. He contacted them on 
21 October 2020 to ask for legal advice in relation to a motor contract dispute. The insurer 
said it passed the request over to its claims handlers on 22 October 2021, but Mr S said he 
didnt hear back from them.
After chasing F&L, Mr S was eventually told on 3 November 2020 that a solicitor would be in 
touch to provide him with legal advice, and the solicitors contacted him on 4 November 2020 
to discuss his claim. However, Mr S was unhappy with the advice he received and also says 
he was given contradictory information about the scope of his cover. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He explained that we couldnt consider the 
actions or advice of solicitors and was satisfied that Mr S had received the benefits he was 
entitled to under the policy. So, the investigator didnt think that F&L had mishandled the 
claim. Mr S disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
First, I note that certain parts of Mr Ss complaint centre around the quality of the advice and 
service provided by the solicitors appointed by F&L. But as the investigator has already 
highlighted, F&L is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert 
dealing with the legal dispute. As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the 
claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations 
reasonably and dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to consider the quality of legal 
advice provided by a solicitor or the actions taken by a law firm as they are not regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority, and would fall under the remit of the Legal Ombudsman.
In terms of F&Ls handling of the claim, I do not consider that theyve unfairly limited the 
benefits available to Mr S under the policy. I understand he wanted to pursue the third-party 
seller of his vehicle for a contract dispute. But the only legal action covered under the policy 
to pursue third parties is for damages arising as a result of a road traffic accident, which 
Mr Ss claim was not. So I do not think F&L have acted unfairly by declining to offer legal 
expenses cover.
However, in terms of motor contract disputes, Mr S was entitled to legal advice from the 
insurers helpline. I can see that F&L put him in touch with a solicitor within around 3 weeks 
of him requesting legal advice which, although it could have been sooner, I dont think is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. So Im satisfied that Mr S has received what he was 
entitled to under the policy. 
I understand that he was unhappy with the advice given by the solicitor. However, as Ive set 
out above, I cannot consider the advice or service theyve provided, and the fact that Mr S 
disagreed with what the solicitors said does not mean that F&L would then be obliged 
appoint a different solicitor to offer him advice. He also says that there was a discrepancy in 
the position between F&L and the solicitors in the provision of what legal assistance was 
available. But having considered the policy, Im not persuaded that Mr S was entitled to any 
further form of cover other than access to legal advice, which he was given.
So, in summary, Im satisfied that F&L have satisfactorily discharged their obligations under 
the policy to give Mr S access to legal advice, and Im not persuaded theyve handled the 
claim unfairly. And neither do I consider the level of service provided to have fallen below an 
acceptable standard, so I dont think any payment of compensation is warranted in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I will not be directing the insurer 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman