DRN-2013639
 
The complaint
Mr N complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) will only pay 50% of the claim he made for a 
stolen suitcase under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ns suitcase was stolen at the start of his holiday in October 2018  it contained clothing 
and toiletries, a pair of sunglasses, books, a pillow, various medications and two medical 
clamps. He reported the theft to the police and bought replacements for some of the stolen 
items, as he says he needed them while on holiday. And Mr N made a claim for the stolen 
suitcase under his UKI travel insurance policy. 
UKI offered to pay 50% of the claim, as it said Mr N hadnt provided proof of ownership for all 
the items he was claiming for. Mr N complained to UKI, as he thought that was unfair and 
that UKIs policy terms were unclear regarding proof of ownership.
In its final response UKI offered Mr N £50 compensation for incorrectly saying it would send 
him a letter by first class post. But UKI again said it would only pay 50% of the claim as Mr N 
hadnt provided proof of ownership. It said it would accept receipts, photos and bank 
statements as proof of ownership, but not a statement from a family member as Mr N had 
offered.
Mr N remained unhappy that UKI would only pay 50% of his claim, so he referred that 
complaint to our service. After looking into things, our investigator said the policy entitled UKI 
to ask for proof of ownership. And that as Mr N hadnt provided proof of ownership, it 
wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to pay his claim in full.
Mr N disagreed. He said it was unreasonable to expect him to have proof of ownership for 
every item in his suitcase, even minor or old items. And that UKI had been knowingly vague 
about what constituted proof of ownership. 
As Mr N disagreed, his complaint came to me for a decision. I contacted Mr N and UKI to 
share my thoughts. I said the policy entitled UKI to ask Mr N to substantiate his claim, which 
Mr N had provided for some items, and which UKI had accepted and then offered 50% of the 
claim. But it was unfair for UKI to expect Mr N to provide evidence for every item in his claim, 
as most were everyday, relatively low value items. And it was unfair for UKI to refuse the 
other half of Mr Ns claim just because he hadnt provided evidence for each of these items. 
I said UKI should pay the claim in full, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. And this 
should include £287.20 for the medical clamps, as they werent a high value item under the 
policy. Based on UKIs claim calculations, I said the full claim payment was £763.48 and that 
UKI should add 8% simple interest to this, as it hadnt yet made any payment to Mr N.
I also said UKI was entitled to set its own policy wording regarding proof of ownership, so I 
wouldnt be asking it to change this wording as Mr N wanted. And that I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for UKI to offer Mr N £50 compensation for incorrectly telling him a letter would 
be sent by first class post.
Mr N agreed with what I said. But UKI didnt agree. It provided a section of its claims process 
and said it could be argued UKI had been fair in paying the claim at all given the minimal 
substantiation provided by Mr N, and that its process showed 50% was a fair starting point. 
UKI went on to say it was for Mr N to prove his loss and while it accepted he might not have 
all the receipts for every day items, Mr N hadnt provided any receipts for his lost items, 
particularly the medical clamps  hed only provided receipts and photos for replacement 
items. And UKI said its brand partner had agreed Mr N shouldnt be treated differently to any 
other customer in the same position.
Ive now gone on to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIs system and contact notes show Mr N provided UKI with proof of travel and proof of 
loss documents, and Ive not seen that UKI has disputed either the theft or its circumstances. 
UKIs notes also show Mr N is claiming for his suitcase and its contents, which were 
everyday items of clothing and toiletries, a pair of sunglasses, books, a pillow, various 
medications and two medical clamps. 
Ive seen the policy terms and conditions say You must provide us with proof of ownership 
and value for the items of baggage for which you are claiming to substantiate your claim. If 
you do not, it may affect your claim.  UKI asked Mr N to substantiate his claim, as the policy 
entitled it to. I know Mr N would like UKI to change its policy wording regarding proof of 
ownership, as he feels its unclear. But UKI is entitled to set its own policy terms and 
conditions, so I wont be asking it to change its wording.
In this case, UKI agreed to consider photos and bank statements as proof of ownership, as 
well as receipts. But it said it wouldnt accept the statement from a family member that Mr N 
offered to provide, and I can understand why UKI wouldnt accept that as proof of ownership. 
But in any case, I dont think such a statement is necessary here. Ill explain why.
Mr N provided UKI with photos of himself with a medical clamps, photos of his medication, 
and receipts for the replacement items he bought whilst on holiday. UKI considered this 
evidence and accepted Mr Ns claim. But it said it would only pay 50% because he hadnt 
provided evidence for all the items he was claiming for. And UKI excluded the £287.20 Mr N 
claimed for the clamps  UKIs system notes suggest it excluded them because it thought it 
particularly needed evidence for these as they were a high value item. UKI used the 
receipts and estimates Mr N provided to calculate that 50% of his claim (excluding clamps) 
was £238.14. UKI then deducted the £75 excess, which the policy entitled it to do. So UKIs 
offer stands at £163.14.
Therefore, the reason UKI isnt paying all of Mr Ns claim is because it says he hasnt 
provided evidence for all the items hes claiming. I note what UKI has said about not treating 
Mr N differently to any other customers. But in the circumstances of this particular complaint, 
I think its unfair of UKI to expect Mr N to provide evidence for each and every item in his 
claim. Thats because most of them are everyday items of relatively low value  examples 
include razors, trousers, sunglasses, and a pillbox. And Mr N told UKI he bought some of 
them quite some time ago. So in this case I think its unreasonable of UKI to expect Mr N to 
have photos of all these items, or to have receipts or bank statements that itemise them. I acknowledge UKI says its acted fairly since Mr N has provided minimal substantiation. But 
as Ive said, I dont think its reasonable for UKI to expect that Mr N would be able to provide 
some form of proof of ownership for each and every one of his items. So I dont think its fair 
for UKI to refuse to pay the other half of Mr Ns claim solely because he hasnt provided 
evidence of them. 
Therefore, UKI should pay all of Mr Ns claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy  
and this should include the £287.20 Mr N has estimated for the clamps. Thats because I 
dont think UKI can fairly consider the clamps to be a high value item under the policy, and 
the policy says:
The most we will pay for each insured person is £2,500. This is reduced to:
£400 for any one item (including items that form part of a pair or set of items).
£1,000 in total for valuable items.
Putting things right
UKI calculated 50% of the claim (excluding clamps and before deducting the excess) to be 
£238.14. As I think UKI should pay the whole of the claim (subject to the remaining terms of 
the policy), it should therefore add another £238.14 to this plus a further £287.20 for the 
clamps. UKI should then deduct the £75 excess Mr N would have had to pay in any case. 
This brings the claim payment to £763.48. Ive seen that UKIs system notes show it agreed 
to pay 50% of Mr Ns claim on 10 June 2019 but Ive not seen anything to suggest its paid 
him any part of it yet. So to compensate Mr N for not having use of the £763.48 I think it 
should have paid him, UKI should add 8% simple interest on that amount from 10 June 2019 
to the date of settlement.
I note UKI has offered Mr N £50 for incorrectly telling him a letter would be sent by first class 
post. Thats not something Mr N has complained to our service about, but I dont think £50 is 
an unreasonable amount for UKI to offer as compensation for that error.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. U K Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr N:
£763.48 in full settlement of his claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy
8% simple interest on that amount from 10 June 2019 to the date of settlement
the £50 compensation it offered him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman