DRN-3885711
The complaint
Miss W complains about the quality of a car she had on finance with Go Car Credit Limited.
What happened
In October 2021 Miss W entered a hire purchase agreement with Go Car for a used car. The 
car was around 9 years old and had covered 85,699 miles. The cash price of the car was 
£5,200, Miss W paid a deposit of £300 and agreed to make 38 monthly instalments of 
£246.39.
In April 2022 Miss W contacted Go Car to report that following a health check inspection she 
had been told the car was too unsafe to drive and been quoted repairs of just under £3,500.  
At the time of the health check the recorded mileage was 93,373. Miss W reported the 
following faults issues;
horn failure
gear stick has excess movement
rear tyres worn to the cords, illegal to drive
brake pipes covered in grease, suspected corrosion
requires rear brake pads and discs
oil filter issues
 exhaust leaking
corroded sump plate
new engine control unit required
air conditioning requires new condenser
Go Car wanted to arrange an independent inspection and to have the opportunity to let the 
dealership attempt a right of repair. Miss W was unhappy with this, she had lost confidence 
in the car and wanted to reject it.  She later confirmed to Go Car the approximate mileage 
was 100,000 miles, so Miss W had managed to cover around 6,500 miles since reporting the 
faults. Miss W stopped making her monthly instalments and in August 2022 Go Car 
immobilised the car due to the agreement being in arrears. 
Miss W brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator asked her for the current 
recorded mileage, but Miss W has been unable to provide this as the car no longer starts. 
The investigator didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and 
thought it was fair for Go Car to allow Miss W to reject the car, with nothing further to pay, as 
it wasnt economical to repair. She recommended Go Car refund Miss Ws deposit and 
remove any adverse information recorded on her credit file.
Miss W disagreed, she thought she should receive compensation and a refund of her 
monthly instalments. Go Car didnt think there was sufficient evidence the car was faulty at 
the point of supply, given Miss W had managed to achieve a lot of mileage before and after 
reporting the faults. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service 
can consider complaints relating to it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Go 
Car is responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability.
 
The CRA also says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present 
when the car was supplied, unless Go Car can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Miss W took possession of it, and this made it not of a satisfactory quality, itd be 
fair and reasonable to ask Go Car to put this right. 
Miss W has provided copies of brake repair invoices from 2019 and 2020. The MOT 
completed in May 2021 notes that grease is present on the brake pipes. And I think the MOT 
advisories are consistent with the faults confirmed in April 2022. Ive also seen the health 
check report and watched the video assessment, which notes severe corrosion and leaks, 
likely to be present for some time. And whilst I accept that Miss W hasnt given Go Car the 
opportunity to arrange for the car to be inspected to confirm if the faults were present at the 
point of supply. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that its more likely than not that the 
faults, were present or developing at the point of supply.
Just because the faults were present at the point of supply, doesnt automatically mean the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Durability of the car is also part of 
whether or not goods are considered to be of satisfactory quality. When Miss W took 
possession of the car, it was more than nine years old and had over 85,000 miles on the 
clock, and I think a reasonable person would expect there to be some issues with 
maintenance and repair over time, since components of the car would have been subjected 
to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt be an expectation that the 
car was fault free. 
So even though several faults here relate to wear and tear components, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect to require such substantial repairs and component replacements amounting to over half the cash price of the car, within just five months of 
getting a car. So, on this basis I dont think the car was durable, and I think this means the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, and that Go Car 
needs to do something to put things right. And whilst the CRA gives Go Car one opportunity 
to repair the car, I dont think thats appropriate here. I say this because the quoted cost of 
repair is over half the cash price of the car, so I dont think it would be economical for Go Car 
to now arrange for the repairs. In addition, Miss W has lost confidence in the car and Go Car 
is aware of her vulnerabilities, in the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for Go 
Car to now allow Miss W to reject the car and end the agreement, write off the outstanding 
balance on the account, refund her deposit, along with 8% simple interest per year and 
remove any adverse entries placed on her credit file.
Miss W says she should be compensated for the distress caused and should also get her 
monthly instalments refunded. Ive taking into account that Miss W managed to complete 
approximately 14,000 miles from the point of supply, in just five months, which is higher than 
the average yearly mileage and Miss W continued to benefit from the car, after stopping her 
monthly instalments. In the circumstances, I think its fair for Go Car to retain Miss Ws 
monthly instalments. 
Whilst I appreciate Miss W has found this stressful and feels she should be compensated for 
how long this has been ongoing; I think some of Miss Ws actions have contributed to this 
delay as she didnt work with Go Car when it was trying to arrange for the car to be 
inspected at the garage or when it later wanted to arrange an independent inspection. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to now require Go Car to pay her any compensation.
I know this decision is likely to be disappointing to Miss W, but this is the final stage of our 
process, and we are unable to consider this complaint further. Miss W is free to reject my 
decision and pursue this matter through the courts if she wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Go Car Credit Limited to;
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss W.
End the agreement and write off Miss Ws outstanding account balance.
Refund Miss Ws £300 deposit, along with 8% simple interest per year, from the date 
of the payment until the date of the refund.
Remove any adverse entries it has placed on Miss Ws credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman