DRN-3666931
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) charged him for closing a 
fixed rate ISA.
What happened
Mr C had a fixed rate ISA which was opened on 17 March 2021 and was due to mature on 
17 September 2022. The rate was 0.75% p.a. On 18 December 2021, Mr C asked 
Nationwide to close the ISA  using the secure messaging service. Nationwide responded 
on 19 December 2021 to confirm his instructions had been received. Later on the same day, 
Mr C messaged Nationwide again to say he was reconsidering his decision to close the 
account and asked them to hold onto the request. Nationwide replied on 20 December 2021. 
The ISA was closed on 20 December 2021 and a fee of £546.95 was charged  180 days 
interest on the deposit of £147,880.21. The funds on the ISA were transferred to Mr Cs 
Nationwide current account and on 20 December 2021, he transferred £148,000 to another 
bank.
Mr C complained. He said that he had asked Nationwide to put a hold on the transfer 
request, and theyd told him it may not be completed until 22 December 2021  but it closed 
ahead of this, on 20 December 2021. He said that was unfair and the fee should be 
refunded.
Nationwide said that when they responded to Mr C on 20 December 2021, they said they 
would email the closures team, but said that they may not get the email in time and therefore 
the closure might still be actioned. Nationwide said that secure messaging wasnt an instant 
messaging service and may take up to two working days to respond. The early closure fee 
was explained in Nationwides terms and conditions, which Mr C had agreed to when 
opening the account. Nationwide offered to re-open Mr Cs fixed rate ISA as to how it was 
before closure  including the loss of interest that had been charged. Theyd advised Mr C to 
put the funds back into his current account for this to happen.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Nationwide acted reasonably. 
Nationwide hadnt guaranteed that the account closure could be stopped. And theyd made it 
clear that the request had to be sent to another department. The fee had been applied in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And then Nationwide did offer to re-open the 
account again, including refunding the loss of interest. But as Mr C hadnt put the funds back 
into his Nationwide current account, the ISA hadnt been re-opened. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that Nationwide could charge the fee for closing Mr Cs fixed rate ISA 
earlier than its maturity date. The terms say You can close the account and withdraw the 
whole of the balance during the fixed term, subject to the payment of an early access 
charge. The early access charge is equivalent to 180 days interest, based on the rate 
applicable to your Member Exclusive Fixed Rate ISA. In Mr Cs case, I can see that this 
worked out as £546.95  which was 180 days interest on the balance of £147,880.
But  Mr Cs complaint is about the communications that he had with Nationwide. I can see 
that he messaged them on 18 December 2021 and said Hello I want to close my Member 
Exclusive ISA asap please I am aware that this is before its maturity date and that there will be a 
fee for doing so? However, I still wish to make this transaction, can you do so asap please and 
transfer the ISA minus the fee + interest accrued etc... into my current account XXXXXXXX 
please?.
Nationwide acknowledged Mr Cs request on the same day. But on 19 December 2021, Mr C 
messaged Nationwide again and said Thank you for your message! However, before we go 
ahead with the ISA closure could you please confirm for me what the actual costs, associated 
with the closure of this account will be? If they prove to be rather high I may reconsider? So 
please lets not be too hasty!
Nationwide replied on the 20 December 2021 and said I have emailed our closure team and 
asked if the (sic) can please put a hold on this closure for the time being. They may not pick up 
my email in time but I have also left a note on the case for them.
So here, Mr C told Nationwide he was aware there would be a fee to close the fixed rate ISA  as 
he had said so in his first message. And he gave a clear instruction to close the ISA as soon as 
possible. And  he was bound by its terms and conditions in any case. And I can also see that 
Nationwide did say to Mr C that the closure may still go ahead because of the need to contact 
another department  so they were open with him about that. They didnt say the closure could 
be stopped.
Turning to Nationwides offer to re-open the ISA. On 23 December 2021, Nationwide offered to 
re-open the ISA and on the same day, Mr C said he would like the account to be re-opened. It 
wouldve been clearer if Nationwide had at that time offered to refund the fee charged  but 
unfortunately, they didnt.  Between then and Nationwides final response on 22 February 2022,  
the account wasnt reopened. But in Nationwides final response, they offered for the account to 
be reopened and said the loss of interest would also be applied back to the ISA if it was. They 
said the amount of deposit had to be the same as when Mr C closed it. Nationwide said they 
wouldnt pay back the fee to Mr Cs current account.
Mr C didnt take advantage of Nationwides offer. But on the balance of evidence, I think it was a 
reasonable way of dealing with Mr Cs complaint. 
I can see that Mr C feels strongly about what happened and therefore will be disappointed by my 
decision, but Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anymore here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman