DRN-3149717
The complaint
Mr B complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. He wants compensation for the costs he then incurred. 
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with Highway through a broker. The broker validated the policy on 
Highways behalf, and it said Mr B hadnt declared a previous claim. This was recorded on 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database against Mr B but with one letter of 
his name spelled differently. 
Highway gave Mr B the options of adding the claim to his policy, or to contact the other 
insurer if he thought the claim was incorrect. Mr B didnt do either. So Highway then 
cancelled Mr Bs policy after giving him seven days notice. Mr B was unhappy with this for a 
number of reasons.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
when Mr B had bought the policy he had agreed that his personal data would be shared 
between the broker and Highway. He thought Highway was entitled by the policy terms and 
conditions to check Mr Bs previous claims history on CUE in order to validate the policy. He 
thought Mr B hadnt disclosed the claim as he should have, even though it was for a policy 
with a different car. He thought Highway had given Mr B two options to resolve the matter. 
And he thought it had then cancelled the policy in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Mr B replied raising concerns about the legitimacy of the broker and Highway to act as they 
did in checking CUE and cancelling his policy. He said he hadnt refused to contact the other 
insurer. But he said he had wanted an email stating what proof was required from this 
insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised concerns about the legitimacy of the actions taken by his broker and 
Highway. I can assure him that the broker is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and is not an insurer. The broker sells and administers policies that are underwritten 
by the insurer, in this case Highway. It was the insurers decision to cancel Mr Bs policy, so 
Ive considered here his complaint against Highway. 
As the Investigator has already explained, we provide an informal alternative dispute 
process. And whilst Im mindful of the relevant laws, Im not bound by them. Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr B thought it was illegal for Highway to ask about his previous driving history. But I 
disagree. Highway needs to assess the risks that it will undertake if it agrees to insure Mr B. 
And so Im satisfied that it can ask for relevant information about his previous claims and 
convictions. And Mr B is obliged by The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
Mr B said he wasnt asked about his previous claims when he took out his policy. He said he 
was asked just about his No Claims Bonus (NCB). But I think it is standard for a consumer to 
be asked to disclose their claims history. Highway has told us that it asked Mr B for details of 
any claims or losses (irrespective of blame or whether a claim resulted) from the last five 
years. And Ive seen that this was the question asked on the comparison website Mr B used 
when he bought his policy. None were disclosed, as shown by the Statement of Fact. 
Highway then carried out validation checks including a check on CUE. I think it was entitled 
to do this by the policy terms and conditions that Mr B had agreed to when he bought the 
policy, and which had been sent to him. 
Highway found an undisclosed claim within the previous five years. The name of the 
policyholder was one letter different to Mr Bs name. But the addresses and dates of birth 
were the same. And so I think it was fair and reasonable for Highway to conclude that the 
claim was recorded against Mr B.
Highway then emailed Mr B and he called it. Mr B then strongly disputed the claim. He was 
given the options of adding the claim to his policy or disputing it with the other insurer if he 
thought it was incorrect. Mr B wanted an email to confirm the information, but I think 
Highway gave him sufficient details with which to contact the other insurer to discuss the 
matter. I think it was for Mr B, not Highway, to contact the other insurer as it had recorded 
this information about him. Highway warned Mr B that the policy may be cancelled if it 
couldnt add the claim to it. 
Highway received no response, and so it sent Mr B a letter to give him seven days notice of 
cancellation. Im satisfied that Highway was entitled to do this by the policys terms and 
conditions if it had a valid reason. And I think the incorrect claims history was a sufficiently 
valid reason for cancellation.
Mr B again called Highway to query the cancellation. And I think it reasonably reiterated the 
actions required of him. Highway didnt receive a response and so the policy was cancelled 
at the end of the notice period. And Highway sent Mr B an email to confirm this, as wed 
expect.
So I think Highway checked CUE for records of previous claims against Mr B, as it was 
entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. It found a claim which I think it reasonably 
thought was against Mr B and which he hadnt declared as he should have when he took out 
his policy. 
I think Highway then gave Mr B sufficient opportunity to dispute the claim with the other 
insurer, and have it removed from CUE, or to add it to his policy. Mr B didnt respond further. 
And so I think Highway then cancelled Mr Bs policy fairly and reasonably and in keeping 
with its terms and conditions. As I cant say it did anything wrong, I dont require Highway to 
pay Mr B any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman