DRN-4082584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the inconvenience and distress they experienced because U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to progress their claim.
Mr and Mrs F had buildings insurance with UKI in joint names. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
only to Mr F throughout my decision.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr F claimed under his policy after a storm caused his tree to fall onto his 
roof. UKI accepted the claim and the garden element of it was settled within a reasonable 
time. But the buildings claim didnt progress meaningfully. Mr F brought his complaint about 
the delay to us.
We upheld his complaint, instructing UKI to progress the claim and pay £275 compensation 
for the delay repairing the hole in his roof. The compensation addressed events leading up 
to 13 July 2022.
Mr F raised a second complaint because UKI didnt progress his claim and he continued to 
experience distress and inconvenience because of the hole in his roof. He said the damage 
got worse because of the delays and he was concerned about the continued exposure to 
damaged asbestos.
UKI didnt respond to Mr Fs concerns for several months. But, after he brought his second 
complaint to us, UKI cash settled Mr Fs claim in full. It also issued a final response in 
February 2023 in which UKI confirmed it would pay Mr F £300 compensation for its delays.
Our investigator didnt think it was enough and after some discussion with both Mr F and 
UKI, she proposed a total payment of £750. Neither UKI nor Mr F agreed with the amount. 
UKI thought £500 was sufficient while Mr F asked for £2,000. So the complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive only touched on 
them briefly above. Because UKI has now settled the claim in full, Ill focus on the 
compensation which is the only outstanding element of dispute. 
To be clear, Ive considered the following points when deciding whether UKIs offer of £300 
compensation is enough in the circumstances:
The additional and avoidable distress, inconvenience and concern regarding the 
continued exposure to damaged asbestos.
The additional and avoidable inconvenience and further damage resulting from UKIs 
failure to repair the roof.
The failure to progress the claim despite agreeing to do so.
The additional work required on Mr Fs part to update quotes for the repairs.
UKIs failure to respond to Mr Fs contacts on numerous occasions.
Ive also considered UKIs agreement to increase the compensation from £300 to £500, 
along with its decision not to seek repayment of £138 which it paid Mr F in error when 
settling his claim. 
The nature of the shortfalls doesnt seem to be in dispute, so the issue that remains is the 
amount of compensation.
Ive thought about Mr Fs request for £2,000. Having considered his description of the 
concern this matter caused him and Mrs F, its evident and understandable that hes taking 
into consideration everything from the start of his claim. My consideration of these issues is 
limited to the period after 13 July 2022, which is the cut off point for Mr Fs first complaint, 
until 20 February 2023, which is the date of UKIs final response to his second complaint. 
The compensation isnt intended to address any concerns he has about the possibility of 
future problems. With this in mind, Ive decided not to increase the compensation to £2,000.
UKI thinks its increased offer of £500 is enough and expressed concern that the proposal of 
£750 takes into consideration an issue resolved in the first complaint. Ive looked through the 
evidence on both complaints to ensure theres no overlap in consideration. Ive been clear in 
my decision, here, that Im only looking at Mr Fs complaint about matters which havent 
been addressed in the first complaint because they took place after UKIs final response in 
July 2022.
The evidence shows that UKI failed to progress the claim for a further six months, 
unnecessarily prolonging the time Mr F had a damaged roof, exposed damaged asbestos, 
and essentially ignoring his contacts leaving him with no indication of how or when the claim 
would be settled. Therefore, I think its original offer of £300, and the uplift to £500 was 
insufficient. When taking into consideration that UKI has also given Mr F £138 in error, Im 
satisfied that our investigators recommendation of £750 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and 
U K Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr and Mrs F £750 compensation in recognition of the delay settling their claim, 
the failure to communicate effectively with them, and the concerns they had about 
the continued exposure to the damaged asbestos roof.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman