DRN-3883006
The complaint
Mr D complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who declined his 
claim under his gadget insurance.
What happened
Mr D said that he lost his mobile phone following an evening out. He said that he tried to look 
for it but to no success. He contacted Assurant and made a claim.
Following its investigation of Mr Ds claim, Assurant said that it found evidence that indicated 
that Mr D had price checked his mobile phone, at around 15.56 pm on the date of loss. And 
that from the phone usage evidence, the phone had been last used around 13.50 pm, on the 
day it had been reported lost.  So, Assurant declined Mr Ds claim, on the basis that he 
hadnt provided an accurate account of events leading up to the loss. 
Mr D complained to Assurant. He said that there was no evidence that he had tried to sell 
the phone, which he denied. Further, he had evidence that he had been using the phone 
past 15.56 pm. And that the phone manufacturer would not accept his phone for sale, as it 
was a recently launched model. Assurant maintained its decision to decline the claim and 
gave Mr D his referral rights. 
Mr D referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that Assurant were fair to decline the claim as 
Mr D hadnt provided evidence of what he was doing after 15.56 pm on the day of loss, 
despite requests for the same. She accepted that the information that Mr D provided, that 
the phone manufacturer wouldnt accept a trade-in of the newer model phone, but it wouldve 
been possible for a price check to have been carried out. So, it was difficult to ignore the 
evidence provided by Assurant. 
Assurant accepted the view, Mr D did not. He said that he had provided all the evidence he 
could. He made attempts to show that he used the phone past 15.56 pm but was 
unsuccessful. He said he was also anxious as to how this would affect his credit file. So, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr D, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr D lost his mobile phone following an evening out. He made a claim to Assurant, who 
investigated the loss. It found that earlier on the date of loss, Mr D had gone to a phone shop 
and carried out a price check, at 15.56 pm that day. The last phone usage was recorded at 
13.50 pm. Because of this, Assurant said that Mr D hadnt provided an accurate account of 
events leading up to the loss.  
Mr D refutes that he tried to sell the phone and said that he had tried to get evidence that the 
phone was in his possession after 15.56 pm. The main issue of this complaint is what 
happened from 15.56 pm until 22.20 pm (the time that Mr D said he lost his phone). So, Ive 
had a look into this.
Mr D was asked to provide evidence for his whereabouts from 15.56 pm until the time he 
said the phone was lost. The evidence could be from either, social media posts, information 
about any transactions he made on his phone or any other evidence that could support his 
account. 
Mr D said that he had no social media information. Or information about transactions in 
which he used his phone. Due to the passage of time, that information had been deleted by 
his bank. He did provide evidence to show that the mobile phone provider would not have 
accepted a trade-in of his phone as it had been a recent model. And its policy was not to buy 
new version phones. 
Whilst I accept that Mr D has struggled to obtain the required evidence, this means that the 
information I have to consider, is from Assurant. That evidence relates to a claims check 
information, which shows that on the date of loss, the phone had a price check carried out 
on it. Assurant has effectively said (and Mr D understands that) this meant that he attempted 
to sell the phone. The price check was entered into a database against the same IMEI 
number that Mr Ds phone had. Assurant also provided evidence that it had Mr Ds IMEI 
number, as there was a call recording (which I have listed to) in which Mr D provided the 
IMEI number. 
Mr D has not said that the phone was in someone elses possession on the date of loss. 
Equally, he hadnt provided any evidence to support that the phone was used after 15.56 
pm.  Consequently, I dont think Mr D has provided accurate information about the activities 
leading up to the loss. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr D will be, Im 
satisfied that Assurant were reasonable in declining his claim. As under the policy terms and 
conditions, Mr D had a duty to provide accurate information, about the activities leading up to 
the loss of his phone, which he wasnt able to do. Accordingly, I cant fairly ask Assurant to 
do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman