DRN-3568695
The complaint
Miss W had motor insurance underwritten by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage). Miss W, represented by Mrs W, complains about how Advantage dealt with a 
claim on her policy. References to Advantage include other organisations and individuals 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss W made a claim on her motor insurance policy. She told Advantage her car had been 
stolen. Advantage refused to cover the claim, saying Miss W had failed to report being a 
victim of crime to the police, which was a requirement under her policy.
Miss W wasnt happy with this and complained to Advantage. Advantage said the claim 
couldnt be upheld as the correct process hadnt been followed.
Miss W wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She said Miss W did report the incident to the police and so 
Advantage should reconsider the claim and also pay Miss W £150 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Advantage didnt agree with the investigators suggestions, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. Miss W wants her claim settled as a theft claim and an apology for what she 
says is the mismanagement of her claim, particularly delays. She also wants her no claims 
discount to be protected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
On 21 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I dont intend to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss Ws insurance policy said:
Theft, loss or criminal damage
If your Car is stolen or damaged as a result of crime, or if items are stolen from your Car, 
report it to the police and get a crime reference number.
And:
General conditions
You must comply with the conditions below. If you dont, depending on the circumstances, 
your Insurer may be entitled to cancel the Policy, refuse to deal with your claim or reduce the 
amount of any claim payment.
Victim of crime
You must report the circumstances of any claim you make as a result of you being a victim 
of crime to police within seven days of discovering the incident and fully co-operate with all 
resulting police enquiries and prosecution of offenders.
If a consumers vehicle has been stolen or taken without their consent, we would expect 
them to report this to the police and obtain a crime reference number (CRN). It is usual for 
insurers to ask for proof of this, such as the CRN, and if it cant be provided, the exclusion 
clause would apply. This service would usually consider this to be fair and reasonable.
Miss W says her car was taken and crashed a short distance away. She says the police 
became aware of the crash and visited her to carry out welfare checks. Miss W says she told 
the police who she believed was responsible for taking her car and that she hadnt given this 
person permission to take it.
Ive seen a copy of the police charge sheet and some medical records which Miss W says 
relate to the person who took her car. Ive also seen a copy of a very heavily redacted police 
report which appears to relate to the incident. None of the police documents make any 
mention of theft of the car or of it having been taken without consent. 
Miss W says that Advantage refused to pay her claim because the relevant information was 
redacted in the police report. Advantage says that there can be no relevant information in the 
redacted parts of the police report because: 
If [Miss W] had reported the theft of her motor vehicle without consent this would be 
mentioned within the police report with a description of what [Miss W] has reported to police.
The police report that had been provided to us does not include this information and based 
on our past experience when dealing with police reports this would suggest [Miss W] has not 
reported this to the police. There may have been other elements that have been reported to 
the police but not the theft of the motor vehicle.
If [Miss W] is adamant this was reported within seven days and the police have failed to 
include this, then this would be a dispute for [Miss W] to take directly to the police to 
ascertain why the police have not included this.
There is a memorandum of understanding between the Association of British Insurers and 
the Association of Chief Police Officers which sets out how and when the police will share 
information with insurance companies. The covering letter sent by the police with the report 
said:
Information held which can identify a third party, or that you are not entitled to has been 
edited out.
Advantage says that references to theft of the car in the police report wouldnt have been 
redacted, as it would have been entitled to see this information.
So I can see that, while the police were aware of an incident involving Miss Ws car, it isnt 
possible to say that Miss W reported being a victim of crime to the police in accordance with 
her policy. It is up to a policyholder to show that they have a valid claim under the terms and 
conditions of their insurance policy. I dont think Miss W has shown that the theft or taking without consent of her car was reported to the police. So I think its fair and reasonable for 
Advantage to rely on the exclusion clause and refuse to pay Miss Ws claim.
I can see that it did take Advantage a little while to decide Miss Ws claim. However I dont 
think there were unreasonable delays as Advantage had to look into what happened, 
including getting information from the police. Advantage also says that it took longer to 
investigate the claim as Miss Ws version of events changed.
If Miss W has any other documents or information such as a CRN from the police showing 
that she did report the theft, she should send them to this service and I will consider the 
matter again.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Miss Ws complaint. So I dont intend 
to ask Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision Advantage confirmed it had no more information to 
add.
Miss W said she had obtained body cam footage of her conversation with the police in which 
she explained what happened, that he jumped in the car and drove it off, although she says 
she didnt use the words my car has been stolen. Miss W says this together with pictures of 
the car taken after the accident clearly show she wasnt in the car at the time of the accident. 
However I dont think this point is in dispute. The issue is that Miss W cant show that she 
reported the car to the police as stolen in accordance with her insurance policy. 
Miss W says that she reported the car as stolen to Advantage, so why wouldnt she have 
done the same to the police. She says it is her misfortune that the police redacted the report. 
However as Ive explained above Im satisfied that if there had been any information in the 
police report relevant to the claim it wouldnt have been redacted.
Ive considered Miss Ws comments very carefully. However I still think that Advantage dealt 
with Miss Ws claim fairly and reasonably and in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
her policy.
Our investigator has suggested to Miss W that she send the body cam footage to 
Advantage. Miss W responded that she hasnt done so as she didnt have it at the time of 
making her claim. However it is still open to Miss W to send the footage to Advantage and 
ask it to consider things again.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. So I wont be asking 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman