DRN-2626779
The complaint
Mr H complains that, following a switch of funds within his personal pension, Scottish 
Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) didnt sell the funds at the price it told him it would. He 
said he was told the price would be taken at 12 noon the same day when it was taken at 
6pm the following day. He wants Scottish Widows to either use the 12 noon price or to 
unwind the switch and put him back in the position he was in to start with. 
What happened
Mr H held a pension with Scottish Widows. On 18 March 2020 he was in communication with 
Scottish Widows about his pension and during the conversation he decided to switch his 
existing funds into a cash fund. During the conversation Mr H says he was told that the unit 
price used would be taken at noon that day  which was only around 30 minutes later. The 
next day Mr H contacted Scottish Widows again because the switch hadnt taken place  but 
he was told it would complete using prices at 6pm that day. 
 
So Mr H complained, as he said that wasnt what he was originally told and he wanted to be 
compensated for any difference in the value of the funds  or for the switch to be cancelled 
and his position returned to what it was originally. Mr H says Scottish Widows didnt respond 
to his complaint within the timescales it said would  it wasnt until 15 May 2020 that it did 
respond to his complaint. 
Scottish Widows acknowledged that it had provided incorrect information on the telephone 
and that it had delayed in responding to Mr H and offered £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused. But it said it had used the correct pricing according to its 
rules and believed Mr H wanted to reduce the volatility in his plan, so would have switched to 
a cash fund in any case  regardless of the unit prices involved.  
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome. He said it was accepted that hed been given 
incorrect information and he wouldnt have switched his funds if hed known it would take 
over a day to calculate the price he was going to receive. 
So he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. She 
said that shed looked at the policy provisions booklet for Mr Hs plan and thought it was 
correct for Scottish Widows to use the price at 6pm, if a request was made before 12 pm the 
previous day  so Scottish Widows had priced Mr Hs funds accordingly. She didnt think it 
was responsible for any difference in the price Mr H was expecting. 
She did think that there was some miscommunication during a telephone conversation 
between Mr H and Scottish Widows on 18 March 2020  which she thought might have left 
Mr H with the impression that hed receive a price from noon that day. But she believed that 
Mr Hs request wasnt price dependent  he was looking to de risk at that time- so she didnt 
agree that he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed been given clearer information. She also 
thought that Scottish Widows offer of £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Scottish Widows had accepted that it gave him incorrect 
information and subsequently everyone had made assumptions about what he would have 
done in that situation. He confirmed that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the switch if hed 
been given correct information. 
So as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me to review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment and for largely the same 
reasons. 
The policy provisions
Ive seen the policy provisions that applied to Mr Hs stakeholder pension and in particular 
the section around switching between funds. This sets out that the date of exchange will 
be either the day after your request is received by us at our main administrative office or the 
following day as we reasonably choose, or such a later date as your request may state. 
This was further confirmed in the first part of the telephone conversation Mr H had on 
18 March and the follow up conversation on 19 March 2020, when the issue of forward 
pricing was discussed with confirmation that the following days price at 6pm would be used 
as the selling unit price. Scottish Widows has confirmed that it only reprices at 6pm each 
day. 
So I think Scottish Widows policy was clear and as explained, albeit slightly confused in the 
second part of the 18 March 2020 conversation, it would use the price of the funds at 6pm 
the following day when completing Mr Hs switch. I think Scottish Widows applied the correct 
price according to its policy provisions, so I dont think it did anything wrong there and Im not 
going to ask it to recalculate the switch using different unit prices. 
What Mr H was told
Mr H called Scottish Widows on 18 March 2020 to request the switch. Ive listened very 
carefully to that call. Mr H, having begun the call to discuss his retirement journey, was 
passed through to an adviser in order to carry out a switch of funds. Mr H said that, with 
volatility at the moment I want to put this money, whats left of it, into the safest fund. It was 
identified that there was a cash fund and Mr H said hed like to put his money there. 
The adviser then explained how the switch would be applied as, forward pricing rules, you 
are making the change before noon so its going to apply the next day. I think this 
explanation was in line with Scottish Widows approach but when Mr H asked sorry, are we 
looking at the price at noon today that Ill get, the adviser did respond with yes exactly. I 
think this was a misunderstanding as the adviser had previously confirmed the correct 
pricing rules, but I can understand why Mr H was left with the expectation of receiving a 
pricing on his sale of funds based on the same days price. 
But in any case, Scottish Widows hasnt disputed that it gave incorrect information so my 
consideration here is what was the impact of the incorrect information and how I think Mr H 
would have acted had he been given correct information. 
What Mr H would have doneMr H says its clear that he was told he would receive the price at 12pm that day, and the 
fact was that he only authorised the switch on the basis of the information he was provided 
with during that telephone call. 
And I have some sympathy for Mr Hs point here as he did ask for the switch to be 
completed based on what hed been told  although I do note he was also told the correct 
forward pricing approach during the first part of the telephone conversation. But I cant 
know for sure how Mr H would have acted had he been made fully aware of the correct 
pricing process as that outcome didnt occur. So in order to decide what I think Mr H would 
have done, I have to work on the balance of probability and what I think was most likely to 
have happened based on the evidence Ive seen. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr H would have gone ahead with the switch and I say 
that for the following reason. When Mr H first contacted Scottish Widows, he said he wanted 
to reduce the potential for market volatility of his funds by switching to the safest fund. He 
didnt bring up the costs of switching or the pricing strategy that might apply to the sale and 
purchase involved, that was introduced by the adviser who said he needed to make Mr H 
aware of how the switch process would work. So I think Mr Hs main concern at that time 
was to reduce the risk within his plan and I think he was keen to make that switch regardless 
of the process involved. I appreciate that, with volatility being a main part of his concern, he 
would have wanted the switch to be carried out as soon as possible. But I think even if hed 
been fully aware of the timescale involved in applying prices to the sale of the existing fund, 
he would have been likely to have gone ahead. I think the de risking of the plan was Mr Hs 
main focus here. 
I understand when Mr H says both Scottish Widows and us are making assumptions about 
his likely actions here, especially as the actions he took were based on the information he 
was provided with at the time. But I dont think that takes into account what Mr H was trying 
to achieve here and I dont think he would have been put off from authorising the switch to 
cash if hed been made aware that the switch wouldnt be completed until, and would be 
based on prices, from 6pm the following day. 
So, my conclusion, based on the evidence Ive been presented with, is that Mr H would have 
been likely to have gone ahead with the switch and so I dont think Scottish Widows needs to 
either make up the price differential or restore Mr Hs funds to where theyd been before he 
contacted it. But I do have to consider the question of the incorrect information Scottish 
Widows provided.
The offer for distress and inconvenience
As Ive said theres no dispute that Scottish Widows provided incorrect information in the 
second part of its conversation with Mr H on 18 March 2020. So Ive considered the wider 
impact this had on Mr H. 
Mr H would have had expectations of his switch completing the day after his initial request 
so he would have been frustrated when this didnt happen  particularly as he wanted to 
reduce any risk to his funds. And I think this frustration would have been compounded when 
he then discovered that the unit price had been calculated the following day and had led to 
him suffering a loss on what he expected the value of the fund to be following the switch. So 
I think this would have raised his expectations and caused him considerable distress and 
inconvenience.
And I also understand that Scottish Widows has accepted that it didnt respond to Mr Hs 
complaint in a timely manner which I think would have added to his overall upset. But I think 
the offer of £200 from Scottish Widows for these errors is within the range of what Id expect to see in circumstances such as these and therefore I think its a fair and reasonable 
resolution for the distress and inconvenience thats been caused.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint  
which it said it already sent to Mr Hs account, and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Scottish Widows Limited should pay £200 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman