DRN-3748680
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) havent
accurately recorded a payment he made to his credit file.
What happened
Mr N has an AmEx credit account which was set up so that monthly payments equal to the
full balance outstanding on the account were automatically taken by direct debit.
On 13 November 2021, Mr N made a manual payment of £1,171.80 to his AmEx account,
which was equal to the amount outstanding on the account at that time. However, the
process to take the direct debit payment for that month had already begun, and this resulted
in a further payment of £1,171.80 being applied for on 17 November 2021. This direct debit
payment was initially returned as unpaid, but it was successfully reapplied for by AmEx on
24 November 2021.
Mr N contacted AmEx about this, and the end result was that a further instalment of
£1,171.80 was returned to him. But Mr N then noticed that his monthly AmEx account
statement for November 2021 was only showing a receipt into the account of two payments
of £1,171.80, rather than the three payments as actually occurred. Mr N wasnt happy about
this, as he felt that AmEx werent accurately crediting his account with a payment of
£1,171.80 as should be the case. So, he raised a complaint.
AmEx looked at Mr Ns complaint. They confirmed that three credits for £1,171.80 had been
received into the account and that two debits for the same amount had gone back to Mr N,
which meant that the account balance was correct. However, Mr N wasnt satisfied with
AmExs response, especially as it didnt address the discrepancies on the account
statements, and so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that the account statement
showed two credits and one debit, rather than three credits and two debits, and so they felt
that the statements still considered one amount of £1,171.80 as having been received and
were therefore correct. However, they felt that AmEx should provide an updated statement
to Mr N which more accurately described the movements into and out of the account.
AmEx didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2022 as follows:
Im satisfied that Mr Ns AmEx account had been correctly credited with
£1,171.80 as should be the case. This is because the sequence of events that 
appears to have taken place here is as follows:
13 November: Mr N makes a manual payment of £1,171.80  (1st credit)
17 November: Direct debit payment of £1,171.80 applied for  (2nd credit)
17 November: Direct debit returned unpaid due to insufficient funds  (1st debit)
24 November: Direct debit payment of £1,171.80 reapplied for  (3rd credit)
29 November: Reimbursement of £1,171.80 to Mr N  (2nd debit)
In short, Mr N made a manual payment, but because the process to take the direct 
debit had already started the direct debit payment was also applied for. This direct 
debit payment was initially returned as unpaid by Mr Ns bank, but was reapplied for 
by AmEx a few days later, at which time there were sufficient funds in Mr Ns bank 
account to enable it to be paid. Finally, one of the two taken payments of £1,171.80 
was reimbursed back to Mr N on 29 November, leaving the account in the correct 
position.
But the account statements that Mr N received from AmEx dont correspond with the 
above. These statements show a payment being received on 13 November and a 
second payment being received on 17 November. Finally, the statements show one 
of the payments being returned to Mr N on 21 December 2021.
So, while the outcome of the two sequences of events listed above is the same  that 
Mr Ns account received a payment of £1,171.80  the information they provide on 
how that outcome was reached are notably different.
AmEx have explained that the reason a third credit into the account and a second 
debit out dont show on their statements is because in instances where a direct debit 
is initially returned as unpaid, but is then successfully reapplied for shortly afterwards 
(as was the case here) its AmExs business practice not to list the direct debit as 
having failed and reapplied for on the statements, but instead to list it as being 
successful  as it ultimately was, following being reapplied for.
AmExs position here seems reasonable to me, and it must be noted that it isnt 
within the remit of this service to instruct a business to change its operational 
procedures, including how it chooses to present transactional information on its 
statements. Instead, the remit of this service is to assess whether a fair outcome has 
occurred. And while I appreciate that Mr N may have been confused by the 
information on the AmEx statements, those statements do ultimately show the 
correct outcome  that £1,171.80 was retained by AmEx and applied to Mr Ns 
account  and so I dont feel that an unfair outcome has arisen in this instance.
Additionally, AmEx note that the reason their statements show the final 
reimbursement to Mr N as taking place on 21 December, rather than on 29 
November, was because that reimbursement was the result of an indemnity claim 
that Mr N made with his bank.
It should be noted that the sequence of events listed above, including the 
reimbursement to Mr N on 29 November, is based on information taken from Mr Ns 
bank statements, which during the course of this complaint Mr N has provided to both 
AmEx and this service. As such, it appears that Mr Ns bank credited his account with 
the £1,171.80 on 29 November 2021, in advance of their successfully recovering that 
money from AmEx via the indemnity claim on 21 December 2021.All of which means that I dont feel that Mr N has been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably here by AmEx in the manner which he contends. And while I  
appreciate that our investigator felt that AmEx should provide an updated statement 
to Mr N which included the initial failure and subsequent representation of the 17 
November direct debit, I dont feel that its within the remit of this service to instruct 
that of AmEx, and I feel that the explanation of events already provided to Mr N by 
AmEx, and also within this letter, provides Mr N with a reasonable explanation of 
what happened and also how AmEx present the relevant information in their account 
statements, should similar events happen again.
I realise this may not be the outcome that Mr N was wanting, but it follows from the 
above that my provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing AmEx to take any further action.
In response to my provisional decision letter, AmEx confirmed that they were happy to 
accept the provisional decision whereas Mr N confirmed that he had no further comments or 
information to provide. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision whereby this 
complaint isnt upheld on the basis as explained above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman