DRN-2642439
The complaint
Miss A complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt fully reimbursed her after she became the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Miss A holds a cash account with Metro Bank. On a Friday in June 2020, she received a 
phone call which appeared to originate from a Metro Bank phone number. Miss A says she 
recognised this number as being the same as that from a call shed received a couple of 
weeks earlier, which shed believed was her bank.
Unknown to Miss A at the time, the caller in both instances was actually a scammer, and had 
the capability to mimic (or spoof) one of Metro Banks genuine numbers. 
The number used by the scammer is listed on Metro Banks website as the number for 
business accounts. It matches the format of other numbers used by Metro Bank such as the 
lost and stolen card number (from which it differs only in the final two digits). Miss A says 
she didnt use the internet to double-check the number was Metros  she says she 
recognised it from the previous call shed received.
Miss A says both calls seemed very like shed expect when speaking to Metro Bank. She 
remembers being taken through a security process and recalls that the person she spoke to 
knew information about her. In the later call, Miss A says she was told shed made an error 
in part of her security information. However, she was able to log-in to her mobile banking 
app and the call continued.
Miss A was told that someone had been attempting to use her Metro Bank account to take 
out a mobile phone contract, and to withdraw money. The caller told her shed need to move 
her money temporarily to another account, until a new Metro Bank account was created for 
her and she received a replacement bank card.
Miss A stressed to the caller that she would need the new account in place by Monday, as 
she had a regular payment scheduled to leave her account that day. The caller assured her 
this would happen in time. 
The caller talked her through the process of setting up a new payee, using the details he 
said were for the temporary holding account. Miss A says she saw this was an account with 
another bank and queried if this was right. She says the caller reassured her that this was 
correct - the account was being used as a temporary place to keep her money secure from 
the fraudsters until it could be transferred back into a new Metro Bank account. She would 
be sent a replacement bank card on Monday for that new Metro Bank account.
Miss A says she was convinced she was talking to her bank. She believed that the money in 
her account was at risk if she didnt do what she was told. So, she made two payments in 
quick succession to the new account, which accounted for almost the full available balance 
of her account. Only a nominal amount remained in cleared funds, after allowing for several 
pending card payments.
On the Monday, Miss A received a text message from Metro Bank saying the scheduled 
payment had failed due to insufficient funds. Miss A called Metro Bank to find out why this 
was, explaining that shed made it clear to the Metro Bank caller on Friday (in reality, the 
scammer) that she needed the money to be transferred back before Monday to ensure her 
bill would be paid. 
When Miss A called Metro Bank, she related what had happened. She explained shed been 
called by a Metro Bank colleague, that her card had needed to be cancelled due to an 
attempted fraud, and shed been made to transfer her funds to a new account. After some 
discussion the call handler said she would speak to the Metro Bank fraud team to see if it 
had indeed been them who called. At this point the fraud team identified what had happened 
and the scam was uncovered. 
Metro Bank notified the recipient bank about the scam, but none of Miss As money 
remained to be recovered.
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Metro Bank says one or 
more of those exceptions applies in this case. On that basis it didnt think Miss A was entitled 
to a full refund under the CRM Code. However, it accepted it hadnt done everything it could 
to help protect her, and so refunded 50% of the money shed lost.
Miss A brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with Metro Banks decision 
not to fully reimburse her. One of our investigators looked into it and found that Miss A had 
met the requirements to be fully reimbursed under the CRM Code, and that Metro Bank 
therefore should refund her the remaining money shed lost.
Metro Bank disagreed. In summary, it thought:
Miss A hadnt been sufficiently suspicious of a random caller and hadnt adequately 
challenged them.
Miss A said she was taken through an ID process, only to be told she had failed in 
part, but that this didn't matter.
Miss A was aware that the payment to the 'safe' account was to another bank, but did 
not find that suspicious. Metro Bank has no connection with that other bank.
The spoofed phone number was not verified by Miss A at the time so had no 
influence over her decision making.
Miss A had doubts, but still went along with what was being suggested.
In light of this disagreement, Miss As complaint has been referred to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree broadly with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro Bank should have refunded the money 
Miss A lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Metro Bank should now fairly and reasonably refund the 
balance of the money Miss A lost.The money was taken from Miss As cash account. It is not clear how the consumer 
would have used the money if the firm had refunded it when it should have done. But 
if Metro Bank had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, 
Miss A would not have been deprived of it for the time she has. So, Metro Bank 
should also pay interest on the balance of funds at 8% simple per year. This interest 
should apply from 22 July 2020, when Metro Bank first declined to fully refund Miss 
A, to the date of settlement.
Although most of Miss As distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the 
criminal acts of the fraudsters, I think Metro Bank could have done more to limit the 
impact of this - given its obligations under the CRM Code. I therefore consider £150 
compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im aware that 
compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But considering where we are in the 
complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a 
matter of discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case.
I have carefully considered Metro Banks representations about whether Miss A had a 
reasonable basis for belief when she made this payment. But they do not persuade me to 
reach a different view. I am not persuaded that Miss A failed to meet the requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code (a failure Metro Bank would need to establish for it to choose not 
to fully reimburse her under the terms of the CRM Code). 
In all the circumstances did Miss A make the payment without having a reasonable basis for 
believing that the person she transacted with was legitimate?
Metro Bank considers Miss A shares liability for the money lost. Based on its submissions 
I understand Metro Bank believes it can establish the following under the CRM Code: In all 
the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the 
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: [] the payee was the person the 
Customer was expecting to pay [] and/or [] the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate. 
However, Im satisfied that Metro Bank has not shown that Miss A lacked a reasonable basis 
of belief when making these payments. I say that because:
The scammer appears to have used a preliminary call to set the ground for the 
second scam call some days later. Miss A recalls receiving the initial call (which she 
believed was from Metro Bank) around two weeks prior to the main scam. She hadnt 
had any concerns about that initial call, nor had she been asked to move any money. 
It seems this was a means of gaining her trust in advance of the call where she was 
asked to transfer her money. On both occasions it appears the scammer was able to 
mimic one of Metro Banks legitimate numbers. Overall this suggests to me a 
targeted attack. The use of multiple steps and number spoofing suggest a degree of 
sophistication in the scammers method.
So, while Miss A didnt double-check the number against Metro Banks website 
during the call where she was asked to transfer her money, she says she did 
recognise it as belonging to the bank (from the use of the same number in the 
previous call, which shed believed to be legitimately from her bank). In effect the 
prior call, by appearing to be a genuine and seemingly innocuous call from her bank, 
established a sufficient link with that number for Miss A to believe the second call 
was also from her bank. I dont think it was unreasonable for her to believe in the 
legitimacy of a call originating from a number shed previously associated with the 
genuine bank. Furthermore, even if Miss A had searched Metro Banks website, 
shed have seen this was a legitimate number for the bank  albeit one that appeared to relate to business accounts. I dont consider that step would likely have been 
sufficient to prevent this scam.
Miss A recalls the caller sounded professional and knew information about her which 
reinforced her belief that this was her bank she was speaking to. It seems likely this 
was obtained through an either phishing attack or perhaps details captured in the 
earlier call. In any event, I consider this would have added to her reason for believing 
the scam call genuine.
The interactions with the scammer appear to have mirrored (to Miss As recollection) 
those shed expect to have had with Metro Banks genuine staff. While I understand 
Metro Banks concern that Miss A seemingly failed part of the security process yet 
the scammer continued, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for this to not have 
broken the spell. Miss A says the caller then took her through a different route, 
asking her to log on to her online banking. From Miss As perspective I can see why 
logging into her mobile banking app would have seemed a valid alternative form of 
authentication. And that the caller seemingly knowing that part of the security check 
had failed would be consistent with speaking to the real bank. All in all, Im not 
persuaded she went ahead believing the scammer was not using any identification 
process.
Miss A did spot that the temporary account was with another bank and says she 
queried this with the scammer. That does not suggest to me a wilful lack of care  
rather that she was verifying this was correct before making the payments. The 
scammer provided a plausible sounding explanation, and this reassured Miss A. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for her to have accepted the explanation, believing it 
to be from her own bank  and in light of this being, as she explains, the first time 
shed ever been through anything like this. Here, as at other points in this scam, 
I consider an effective warning from Metro Bank could have broken the spell and 
prevented the payments being made. But I dont think that her initial doubt, in itself, 
demonstrates that Miss A went ahead without a reasonable basis for belief - she had 
been reassured and so was satisfied that her initial concern was unjustified. She 
remained under the spell of the scammer and believed she was speaking to a 
member of Metro Banks staff.
I do agree with Metro Bank that Miss A appears to have had concerns or doubts at 
certain points during the scam. But I consider the important factor here is that when 
those doubts or concerns arose, the scammer was able to provide plausible 
sounding explanations that provided reassurance. So, when Miss A proceeded to 
make the payment, Im not persuaded she was doing so in disregard of unresolved 
concerns  rather, those concerns had been skilfully assuaged by the scammer.
Im mindful in considering all of this that Miss A has explained to Metro Bank she 
suffers from anxiety and depression - and did so at the time of the scam. I consider 
these are characteristics of her as a customer when making the scam payments that 
are potentially relevant. These should therefore have been taken into account by 
Metro Bank in considering whether it could fairly apply this exception under the CRM 
Code. I consider anxiety in particular to be a relevant characteristic in the 
circumstances where Miss A was told her account was under threat and that all of 
her money was in jeopardy.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with 
the requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Metro Bank has been able to 
establish that when Miss A sent these payments she did so without a reasonable 
basis for belief.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Miss A did not make this payment without a
reasonable basis for belief that she was paying money into an account Metro Bank had setup for her. For completeness, and for the reasons I have already set out above, I am not 
persuaded Miss A was grossly negligent.
Distress and Inconvenience
Miss A mentioned her health conditions when reporting the scam to Metro Bank. She also 
explained the financial impact the scam had on her. During one of the calls with Metro 
Banks fraud team, Miss A explained to the call handler that shed been left without any 
money to the extent she couldnt pay the bus fare to get to her nearest Metro Bank branch to 
unblock her account, to pay for food, or for essential bills. Miss A further says she felt treated 
like she was being blamed for what had happened.
While most of the distress and inconvenience Miss A describes suffered stemmed from the 
actions of the scammer - not Metro Bank - having reviewed the calls she had with Metro 
Bank I dont consider she was treated fairly or sympathetically in relation to her report of the 
scam. This exacerbated the distress she suffered unnecessarily. As I stated earlier, Im 
aware that compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we are in the 
complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a matter of 
discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case. In all the circumstances I consider 
Metro Bank should pay Miss A £150 in respect of the material distress and inconvenience it 
caused her here. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Miss A ought to have been fully refunded by 
Metro Bank PLC for the losses she incurred due to this scam. 
I therefore direct Metro Bank PLC to pay Miss A:
the balance of the money she lost through this scam  i.e. £342.75  within 28 days 
of receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision; 
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from 22 July 2020 to the date of settlement; and,
the sum of £150 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss A by its 
decision not to refund in full when it assessed her claim under the CRM Code.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman