DRN-3776161
The complaint
Mrs H complains that the car she acquired through Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc 
(TFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the car and cancel the finance 
agreement.
What happened
Mrs H entered a hire purchase agreement in February 2021 to acquire a used car. She paid 
a deposit of £1,000, and the balance of £4,790 was to be paid through the credit agreement 
which was set up over a 24-month term. At the time of acquisition, the car had already been 
driven more than 64,000 miles and was around eight years old.
Mrs H says she had to return to the dealership within three weeks of purchasing the car; a 
service light repeatedly illuminated on the dashboard. Mrs H told us:
she was advised the light was due to a problem with the diesel particulate filter 
(DPF), but that even after two visits to the service centre, the problems with the filter 
remained and the light continued to illuminate;
in June the car was taken back to the service centre so that the DPF could be 
serviced and cleaned. Mrs H says she was told the regeneration of the filter would 
resolve the matter  but it did not, and the problem remained;
she was advised she wasnt driving the car enough; sufficiently long enough journeys 
at a sufficiently high enough speed, so the DPF wasnt clearing itself;
the car has been returned four times in around six months at great cost and 
inconvenience and its currently not driveable because of the problem and shes 
registered the car as SORN;
she wants to reject the car and be compensated for her loss of time and money.
TFS rejected this complaint. It says it cant accept Mrs Hs rejection of the car because there 
is no fault with it. It says Mrs Hs driving style is the cause of the problem; short journeys at 
low speeds are the prime cause of blocked DPFs, and regeneration is then necessary to 
clear out the blockage of exhaust soot.
TFS said it had agreed with the service centre to clean the DPF and that Mrs H would not be 
charged for the regeneration - the service centre would undertake this as a gesture of 
goodwill.
TFS says immediately prior to Mrs H acquiring the car, it passed an MOT with no advisories, 
and this indicates that car was sold of satisfactory quality and it wont agree to Mrs H 
rejecting it.
Mrs H disagreed and brought her complaint to this Service. She said the problems with the 
car started within a couple of weeks of her acquiring it, so it couldnt be a result of her driving 
style. Furthermore, she explained that she drove around 25 miles each day on the school 
run, and this required her to use two A roads and drive at the national speed limit. 
Mrs H also says that, based on her analysis of the cars MOT certificates, the previous 
owner(s) of the car drove even fewer miles each year.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld. She said 
she was satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  there was 
clearly a fault with the DPF  and Mrs H should be allowed to reject the car and end her 
finance agreement. And she thought TFS should pay her some compensation for the costs 
and inconvenience it had caused her.
TFS disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. TFS says an independent report did 
not identify a manufacturing fault and so TFS concluded that Mrs Hs driving style was the 
cause of the problem. And it said that for a car of this age and mileage, wear and tear was to 
be expected. It did offer to pay Mrs H £100 in recognition of the inconvenience she had 
experienced but it said it wouldnt unwind the finance agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs H is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. TFS is also the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  TFS in this case  had a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mrs H was of satisfactory 
quality or not. There is clearly some disagreement over whether the car has a fault. Mrs H 
clearly thinks there is, whereas TFS says it is operating as it should, and the issues Mrs H 
has experienced with the DPF are a result of her driving style. 
But, having considered things most carefully, I, like our investigator, dont think the car 
supplied to Mrs H was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I say this because one of 
the considerations for whether something is of satisfactory quality is whether or not the item 
in question has proven to be suitably durable, and in this particular case, the problems with 
the DPF arose within the first couple of weeks after Mrs H first acquired the car  at this 
point it had only been driven around 600 miles.
And although issues with DPFs can often be a result of driving style, if this were the cause in 
this case, it wouldve been a result of a previous owners driving style  Mrs H had only had 
the car a very, very short length of time. Moreover, this is supported by the fact that the 
mileage recorded on the previous MOTs shows the car had been driven relatively little, and probably less than TFS says it should be driven to avoid the DPF clogging and requiring 
regeneration. Finally, Mrs Hs testimony is that she drove the car  when it worked  around 
25 miles each day on the school run, and this required her to use two A roads and drive at 
the national speed limit. Shes been consistent about her driving style and the daily journeys 
she made and as a result I find her testimony plausible and persuasive. So, Im not 
persuaded that her driving style is the cause of the issues with the DPF.
And although the car has been returned to the service centre on several occasions in the 
first six months so that the DPF can be looked at and repairs undertaken, these do not 
appear to have been successful  a regeneration performed in June 2021 failed to correct 
the problem and the warning light re-appeared just two weeks later. So, Im satisfied that 
there is a fault with Mrs Hs car.
TFS says the car passed an MOT shortly before it was supplied, but the purpose of an MOT 
is to test important items on the car and to check that they meet the legal standards  it 
doesnt mean that everything in the car is functioning optimally. And although TFS says that 
a car of this age and mileage would be expected to be in need of maintenance sooner than a 
newer car, a statement with which I agree, I dont agree that the development of a fault 
within a couple of weeks of supply demonstrates anything other than that fault was present 
or developing at the point of sale, and that the car was not of satisfactory quality when Mrs H 
acquired it.
In summary, given how soon after getting the car Mrs H describes the issues beginning, Im 
satisfied this fault was present when Mrs H got the car. So, Im satisfied a reasonable person 
would consider the car to have been of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Given that the 
dealership had looked at the car a number of times, its been unable to provide a long-term 
remedy to the problem, the car has been off the road for more than a year and isnt currently 
roadworthy, I dont think any further attempts at repair seem reasonable. So, I think Mrs H 
should be able to reject the car.
I need to consider that Mrs H has had use of the car. But I do appreciate what shes told us 
about the worry and anxiety that this fault has caused her since she first acquired the car. 
And Mrs H has also told us this issue has caused her some inconvenience, and I can 
understand this; she had to deal with the fault on a regular basis, the service centre couldnt 
remedy it, and Mrs H or her husband had to take time out to return the car to the dealership 
several times. So, I think TFS should pay her £250 to reflect this.
Putting things right
I direct Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc to put things right by doing the following:
Unwind the credit agreement and refund Mrs Hs deposit of £1,000.
Refund all monthly payments made from the time the car was SORN in December 
2021 to the date of settlement. Add 8% simple interest from the time payments were 
made to the date of settlement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs H at a time and date suitable for her. 
Pay Mrs H £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Amend Mrs Hs credit file and remove any adverse information from it in relation to 
this agreement. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman