DRN-3752968
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr D with a loan for £2,500.00 in January 2020. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £190. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
what Mr D and Likely Loans had told us. He thought that Likely Loans hadnt done anything 
wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld.   
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr D could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Ds applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr D could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr D has said the 
loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr D and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. Likely Loans searches appear to show that Mr D had some existing credit 
commitments at the time he applied for these loans. 
Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ds outstanding debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to his income. And while Mr D has referred to 
being overdrawn at the time of this application, the funds he was being advanced were more 
than sufficient to clear what he owed. Its also worth noting that while Mr D had defaulted on 
accounts in the past this was more than three years before this application. 
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Likely Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr D appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have reached a different answer. 
But the key here is that Likely Loans wasnt providing Mr D with a mortgage. It was providing 
a loan for relatively small sum. And its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint 
in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and 
the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have extended into the level of checks Mr D is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint, I would remind Likely Loans of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance should Mr D be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect 
payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman