DRN-3399976
The complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) recorded adverse 
information to credit reference agencies about his fixed sum loan agreement without 
contacting him, provided poor service when he contacted them, and that the agreement 
wasnt settled when it shouldve been.
What happened
Mr W entered a fixed sum loan agreement with BMWFS in September 2019 to settle 
negative equity under a previous agreement for a vehicle. The agreement required Mr W to 
make 48 monthly repayments of £125.56. Mr W also entered a separate agreement to 
acquire a vehicle at the same time. 
In November 2020 Mr W applied for a payment deferral as he encountered some financial 
difficulty as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic (covid-19). BMWFS accepted Mr Ws 
application and his payments for November 2020, December 2020 and January 2021 were 
deferred. BMWFS sent Mr W a letter confirming the payment deferral and his new monthly 
payment figure which would begin in February 2021. 
Mr W asked for, and BMWFS agreed, a further payment deferral to cover Mr Ws payments 
for February 2021, March 2021, and April 2021. BMWFS sent Mr W a letter confirming the 
payment deferral and his new monthly payment figure which would begin at the end of May 
2021. 
At the beginning of May 2021 BMWFS sent M W a letter setting out that his payment deferral 
was coming to an end. In June 2021, they sent him a notice of sums in arrears and Mr W 
made a manual payment in early June 2021. 
In July 2021 Mr W arranged to sell his car and says that the dealership he purchased his 
new vehicle from said this loan agreement would be settled at the same time as his vehicle 
agreement. BMWFS received a request for a settlement quote, and this was sent to the 
dealership and Mr W in July 2021. 
The quote set out that in order to settle this agreement, Mr W would need to pay £3,852.20. 
This was made up of £3,264.56 left to pay, minus an interest rebate of £291.28 plus the next 
due payment of £125.56 and arrears of £753.36 relating to the payments deferred due to 
covid-19. 
In early August 2021 Mr W contacted BMWFS as hed noticed a late payment had been 
recorded on his credit file, but he thought the loan had been settled. 
BMWFS responded to Mr W in late August 2021 to say that his agreement for his vehicle 
had been settled, but this loan agreement was separate. They said the agreement would run 
in arrears due to the covid-19 deferred payments, but if Mr W continued to make his monthly 
payments this wouldnt be reported to credit reference agencies. They said Mr W had 
missed a payment in late July 2021. 
Mr W told BMWFS he wouldnt be making a payment, as they shouldve told him this 
information when he sold his car. 
In September 2021 BMWFS sent Mr W an annual statement for his fixed sum loan 
agreement. 
In October 2021 Mr W complained to BMWFS. He said he was under the impression that 
when he got a new car both his vehicle agreement and this fixed sum loan agreement would 
be settled, but this agreement had remained active and fallen into arrears. He said he didnt 
receive any contact about this and so it shouldnt be recorded on his credit file. Mr W also 
complained about treatment he received in a call with BMWFS. 
BMWFS sent Mr W their final response to his complaint in December 2021. They said the 
agreement for his vehicle was settled in July 2021, but this loan agreement wasnt and so 
the payments were outstanding. They asked Mr W to contact them to make arrangements to 
repay the arrears and said they would continue to report missed payments to credit 
reference agencies. They said if the dealership told Mr W that theyd settle both agreements, 
then hed need to take this up with them. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said when 
he purchased his new car, he believed that both his old vehicle agreement and this loan 
agreement would be settled. 
Mr W said BMWFS didnt contact him about the loan agreement until he noticed the late 
payment marker on his credit file, they provided poor service on the phone when he 
contacted them, and hed had to pay additional fees in relation to a mortgage because of the 
information recorded on his credit file.
Mr W said hed like the account to be closed, late payments markers removed from his credit 
file, a refund of the fees hed paid in relation to the mortgage application and an apology. 
Our investigator gave her view that it wouldve been reasonable for Mr W to have questioned 
whether this loan had been settled after BMWFS told him in August it was ongoing, and so 
she didnt think it was unreasonable for them to have reported the late payments to his credit 
file. She said Mr W may have a complaint against the new supplier if theyd told him this loan 
would be settled, but she didnt think BMWFS needed to do anything more. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said BMWFS didnt send him any communication about the missed 
payment due to covid-19. Mr W has also told this service that hes since experienced 
difficulties in setting up a payment plan with BMWFS, and theyve recorded a default on his 
credit file. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W was supplied with a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Mr W has explained that when he acquired his new vehicle in July 2021, he was under the 
impression that his vehicle agreement and this fixed sum loan agreement would be settled by his new finance provider or the dealership. I can see that a request was made of BMWFS 
for a settlement figure, so I can appreciate why Mr W mightve been under this impression. 
However, I can see that BMWFS didnt receive any payment to settle the fixed sum loan 
agreement, and so it continued with Mr W being liable for the monthly payments once his 
payment deferral had ended. 
Because Mr W thought the agreement had been settled, he missed a payment in July 2021. 
This wasnt brought to his attention until Mr W noticed the late payment marker on his credit 
file. BMWFS have told Mr W that he didnt receive any communication about the missed 
payment because of processes relating to covid-19. 
I note that Mr W contacted BMWFS relatively soon after this payment was missed, and prior 
to the next payment on the agreement falling due. And, when he did contact them, BMWFS 
told Mr W that whilst his agreement for his car had been settled, this one was still 
outstanding and attracting monthly payments. They also told him if these payments werent 
made, they would be reported as late to credit reference agencies. So, even if BMWFS had 
contacted Mr W to tell him that hed missed the payment in July 2021, hed have been in the 
same situation, that is having missed a payment and future payments on the agreement still 
being due, so I dont think the lack of communication from BMWFS has impacted Mr W here. 
Theres no dispute that Mr W received poor service when he called BMWFS to query the late 
payment marker. BMWFS have apologised for the service Mr W received, and I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whilst I appreciate why Mr W believed this agreement had been settled when he purchased 
his new car, I think BMWFS gave Mr W clear information both when he contacted them In 
August 2021 and in an annual account statement that they sent him in September 2021 that 
it hadnt been, and he still needed to make payments. As these payments werent made, I 
cant say that BMWFS acted unreasonably in reporting late payments to credit reference 
agencies, and so I wont be asking them to remove this information from Mr Ws credit file. 
Mr W may wish to take up why this agreement wasnt settled as he thought it should be with 
his new car finance provider, and I understand hes already made a complaint to them. 
Mr W has said that hes had difficulty in setting up a payment arrangement with BMWFS and 
isnt happy with further information that theyve recorded on his credit file. Mr W may wish to 
raise these matters with BMWFS and if hes not happy with their response he may be able to 
ask this service to look into that complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman