DRN-3962042
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the settlement amount he received from AXA XL Insurance Company 
UK Limited (AXA) on his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in a car accident in February 2022. His car was written off on 
12 May 2022 and he made a claim under his GAP policy for the value of the car. Mr R 
received a settlement amount of £253.40 and he says there was a shortfall of £1,355. A 
further vehicle invoice was uploaded onto the claim portal and after assessing the claim 
again, AXA informed Mr R that he was overpaid by £40. He thinks this is unfair and in 
breach of his contract under the policy. 
He made a complaint to AXA because he didnt think the claim had been calculated correctly 
and the deposit allowance he received when he bought the car should be included. AXA 
reviewed the claim and said the policy covered the cost of the vehicle price paid by 
Mr R. The discount he received, and the finance deposit allowance have both been 
deducted correctly leaving an amount of £213.40 to be paid to Mr R. AXA said it had 
overpaid Mr R by £40 but would not look to recover that from him. AXA said it had assessed 
the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions and it had been done correctly. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
He concluded that AXA had assessed the claim in line with Mr Rs policy terms and 
conditions and didnt think AXA had to do anything further. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
In summary, Mr R says:
AXA Gap insurance clearly states on the policy that the motor insurance settlement 
will cover the cost of the purchased vehicle as per the invoice. 
AXA decided that in contradiction of the terms and conditions of the policy and it 
would be making payment on the order form rather than the final sale invoice. This 
was a blatant breach of contract and should be investigated further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy as this forms the basis of 
his insurance contract with AXA.
Under the section What Is Covered, Mr Rs policy states:
Vehicle Shortfall Insurance If the insured vehicle is declared a total loss and the date 
of loss occurs within the period of cover and within the territorial limits, we will pay:
1. The shortfall
2. Your excess payment up to a maximum of £300 if you cannot recover it from 
anyone else.
The policy defines the Shortfall as:
The difference between the motor insurance settlement and the Cost of the insured 
vehicle, or:
Where () arranged the finance agreement: The greater of; A) The cost of the 
insured vehicle; or B) the finance settlement.
The policy defines Cost and You as:
The amount you paid for the insured vehicle.
You-The person, firm, company, or organisation shown in your schedule.
Based on the above terms and conditions, Mr Rs policy covers the difference between the 
motor insurance settlement and the cost of the vehicle price paid by Mr R. 
At the time of purchase, the vehicle cost Mr R £26,406.40. There was a discount applied and 
also a finance deposit allowance was given to Mr R, as an incentive for purchasing the 
vehicle. Ive considered the order form and final invoice and it does appear to be slightly 
confusing. Ive also considered the calculation done by AXA. Im satisfied that the deductions 
that have been made correctly by AXA which includes the appropriate motor insurance 
settlement and the two deductions that have been made were also made correctly. This is 
because its actual cost of the vehicle that is used.
Ultimately, its the cost price that has to be considered here which means its the amount Mr 
R paid for the vehicle. I cant see that AXA has used incorrect amounts to make the final 
calculation and amount due to Mr R. 
While I accept Mr Rs comments that AXA used the incorrect invoice to start with, this has in 
fact been to Mr Rs advantage. He would have received £40 less from the start and I think 
axa
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded AXA has made an 
incorrect calculation to settle Mr Rs claim on his GAP insurance policy. The claim has been 
settled in line with Mr Rs policy terms and conditions and I dont think Mr R has been treated 
unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont think AXA needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about AXA XL Insurance 
Company UK Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman