DRN-4219622
The complaint
Ms J has complained that Next Retail Limited (Next), irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms J opened a shopping account with Next in September 2019. Her account limit was 
initially low - £600. Over the course of the next two years Ms Js account limit was increased 
three times until, in July 2021, it was £3,750.
Ms J says that Next shouldnt have lent to her. She says that Next should have consulted 
her credit file and asked her more questions to find out if the credit was affordable for her. 
Next says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Ms J  and when it increased her 
credit limit.
 
Our investigator thought that Ms Js complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Ms J was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was increased, 
Next didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so. 
Our investigator said that Next should pay back interest and charges it made as a result of 
the credit that was unfairly extended to Ms J.
 
Next didnt agree. It reiterated that it had done necessary and proportionate checks. As Next 
didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Ms Js complaint.
Next needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Ms Js income and expenditure. There may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
that the lending was unsustainable. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.
When Ms J opened her account in September 2019, Next has told us there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. It told us that Ms J had five active accounts 
elsewhere and that they were all well managed. It hasnt provided any other information, 
such as how much Ms J was borrowing elsewhere, her income at the time or how much Ms 
J was paying towards each other credit commitment. Instead, it has asked me to rely on a 
detailed explanation of how it checked affordability more generally. 
Without knowing what exactly Next saw when it did its checks, I cant tell whether it acted 
reasonably on the information it received. 
 
In the absence of account-specific information, I think its reasonable to look at the 
information I do have available. Ms J has provided a copy of her credit report covering the 
time the account was opened. I agree that from this there is no evidence that Ms J wouldnt 
have been able to manage the credit offered. She had no arrears, defaults or County Court 
Judgments. She had only one loan, one credit card and a small finance agreement with a 
balance of less than £100. There were no indications of any financial difficulty
.
So, although Next hasnt provided evidence of the checks it did, I am satisfied that if it had 
understood Ms Js finances fully it would have still agreed to lend to Ms J. Even if Next didnt 
do reasonable and proportionate checks (and I accept it says it did), I dont think it would 
have made a different decision when Ms J opened the account.
Four months after the account was opened, Next increased Ms Js credit limit by £900 to 
£1,500. This was quite a substantial increase  150% of her original credit limit. Again, Next 
hasnt provided any of the information it saw when it completed its checks. It relies on its 
generic affordability processes to evidence that its checks were appropriate and 
proportionate. In the absence of the outcome of those checks I think its reasonable to use 
the same approach I did when considering the account opening and rely on the information 
Ms J has provided about her financial circumstances at the time to understand what Next 
ought to have seen when it did its checks.
I have reviewed Ms Js bank statements and credit file from this time. I can see that Ms J 
was using over 94% of her available credit limit. Shed opened another credit card since the 
account was opened and already had a balance of £2,087 with a limit of £2,400. On her 
other credit card she had a balance of £6,485 on a limit of £6,500. Her balance on this 
account had remained relatively static for some time, suggesting that Ms J was making 
relatively little impact on repaying the total amount. I think that this information ought to have 
been available to Next when completing its checks.
Ms J wasnt missing any payments, but I do think that the relatively significant change in Ms 
Js financial situation ought to have made Next complete further checks to better understand 
whether Ms J could sustainably repay the additional credit it was proposing to lend. 
Having reviewed Ms Js bank statements I can see that in the two months preceding the 
increase Ms J was paid around £1,465 net, along with some other transfers from her partner 
towards nursery fees. Ms J explains that she only began working on 31 October 2019. 
The bank statements show that Ms J was regularly spending more than her income each 
month. Although she was making payments of around £244 a month towards her credit card, 
the balance wasnt decreasing. She had made a further payment of £870 towards her 
recently opened credit card which already had a balance of over £2000. This was in addition 
to her essential expenditure. In the three months leading up to the increase Ms J was only in 
credit for a few days in total.
 On the basis of this information, I dont think Next ought to have increased her credit limit in 
the way it did. I think if Next had acted reasonably and completed proportionate checks it 
would have realised Ms J would have difficulty sustainably repaying the new credit. So, I 
think Ms J lost out as a result of something Next did wrong here.
I have looked at the further credit limit increases provided to Ms J, too. I havent seen 
anything to make me think that her situation improved. If anything, it got worse. Her 
indebtedness increased and she began to try to consolidate debts. However, in 2022 Ms J 
got into financial difficulties was unable to meet her financial obligations. Next points out that 
Ms J asked for her credit limit to be decreased at one point, which Next did. But it then went 
on to later proactively offer her a further increase. I dont think Next acted fairly when it 
increased Ms Js credit limit on several occasions from January 2020 onwards. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Next to refund any interest and charges incurred by Ms J 
as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have been 
increased from January 2020 onwards, therefore Next should rework the account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred after January 2020 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, Next can only add 
interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £600  this being the credit 
limit before January 2020.
Next should work out how much Ms J would have owed after the above adjustments. 
Any repayment Ms J made since January 2020 should be used to reduce the 
adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Ms J 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Ms J no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from January 2020. 
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Next should look to arrange and affordable 
payment plan with Ms J for the outstanding amount. Once Ms J had cleared the 
balance, any adverse information as a result of the unfair lending should be removed 
from the credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Next to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms J a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Next acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Ms J on January 2020 and 
beyond. To put this right I direct Next Retail Limited to pay compensation as explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman