DRN-2904109
The complaint
Mr C complains that Utmost Life and Pension Limited (Utmost) delayed the transfer of his 
personal pension plan (PPP) to another provider from who he wished to draw his retirement 
benefits in the form of an annuity. He says this delay meant that his guaranteed annuity 
quotation expired and the revised one that was used provided him with less annual income 
than the original one. 
What happened
Mr C held a PPP with Utmost which, in June 2020, he wanted to transfer to a new provider 
under an open market option so that he could purchase an annuity. On 24 June 2020 
Mr Cs broker wrote to Utmost enclosing a letter of authority (LOA) to act for him, with an 
instruction to transfer the policy to another provider. Mr C also wrote to Utmost at the same 
time confirming that he wished to exercise the open market option to purchase an annuity 
from this policy.
Utmost received confirmation of this proposed action from the new annuity provider on 
8 July 2020. But because Utmost said the required transfer request forms were missing from 
the confirmation pack, it had to send the forms itself to Mr C for completion. These were 
returned by 30 July 2020. Utmost then completed the rest of the process so that the funds 
were sent to the annuity providers account by 28 August 2020.
But the annuity quotation Mr C had received from the provider on 2 July 2020 was only 
guaranteed until 7 August 2020. So when the funds werent received from Utmost by that 
time the annuity provider issued a new illustration. Unfortunately, it was based on the annuity 
rate at that time  which was lower than the one Mr C had expected from the initial 
quotation.  
So in August 2020 Mr C complained about what he thought was a delay to the issuing of the 
transfer request forms, which he said led to the payment of a lower annuity. He said that, 
despite Utmost being aware of his intentions on 2 July, he didnt receive the required forms 
until 27 July 2020  which he thought was an unnecessary delay. 
Utmost didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, although Mr Cs broker had contacted it on 
24 June 2020, it didnt receive confirmation of the transfer request from the annuity provider 
until 8 July 2020. It said it then provided Mr C with the required forms on 27 July  which 
were received 30 July 2020 and it said payment was eventually made on 14 August 2020. 
So it thought it had followed the required process in a timely manner and wasnt responsible 
for any unnecessary delay. 
Mr C wasnt happy with that response, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She said that the complaint should be upheld because 
Utmost ought to have sent the transfer request form to Mr C earlier  as it was aware on 
24 June 2020 that he wanted to exercise his open market option (OMO). She said it made 
no mention of its requirements regarding the OMO during its communication with Mr C about 
his separate request for his funds to remain in a cash fund. She thought that if it had 
provided the necessary transfer forms required by the annuity provider at the time, it was 
likely that the process would have completed during the 30 day period for which the annuity 
quotation remained valid  and Mr C would have received that annuity payment rather than 
the lower one that was eventually paid. 
Utmost didnt agree. It said that, following the letter from Mr C and the request from his 
broker, it assumed the annuity provider would contact it with all the relevant forms. But it only 
received an acceptance letter from the provider on 8 July  not a transfer request form, so it 
sent Mr C the form on 27 July 2020 to complete. Utmost also said that in its email to 
Mr Cs adviser on 8 July 2020 it included a link which gave access to all the forms on its 
website  including the transfer request form. So it didnt think it was responsible for any loss 
that Mr C had incurred and didnt think it should have to pay the recommended redress.
The investigator considered the email that Utmost had sent but didnt think it gave sufficient 
direction towards the need for the transfer request form in relation to an OMO. She also 
thought that if Utmost hadnt received the forms from the new provider on 8 July 2020 then it 
should have contacted the provider sooner than 27 July 2020  which she thought caused 
an unnecessary delay.
But Utmost still didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
So its been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator. Ill now explain my reasons. 
In order to determine whether any delay was caused, and to what extent Utmost might be 
responsible, Ive set out a timeline of events below from the evidence provided.
Mr C sent a letter dated 24 June which was received by Utmost on 25 June 2020 
which said, I am exercising the open market option to purchase an annuity from this 
policy. My broker, (named) or the insurer (also named), will be contacting you shortly 
regarding this. In the meantime please do not transfer my cash holding into any other 
fund. 
On the same date Mr Cs broker also contacted Utmost with a letter of authority for it 
to act on his behalf. The letter said the above client wishes to transfer policy xxx. 
This is a full fund transfer and (the new provider) are to pay any tax free cash. 
On 1 July 2020 Mr C received an illustration from the new annuity provider which was 
guaranteed until 7 August 2020. It noted a fund value of £83,229.12 which would, 
after the payment of the tax free lump sum, provide a yearly income of £1,189.08. 
On 2 July 2020 Utmost informed Mr C that it couldnt retain his benefits in the secure 
cash fund but could switch them to a money market fund which was the closest 
fund match.  
On 7 July the new provider confirmed that it had received a request to set up an 
annuity for Mr C and enclosed its first set of transfer and open market forms. The 
letter was marked as received by Utmost on 8 July 2020. 
On 17 and 27 July 2020 Utmost received further chase letters from the new annuity 
provider asking for the return of the transfer form. 
A transfer form sent by Utmost to Mr C on 27 July 2020 was completed, returned, 
and marked as received by Utmost 30 July 2020. 
Mr Cs broker requested an update of events on 30 July 2020. On 4 August 2020 he 
requested an answer to his previous email and said Mr C was considering making a 
formal complaint. On 29 July, 12 and 20 August 2020 the new annuity provider chased up Utmost for 
receipt of the completed transfer forms and funds. It provided further transfer forms 
on 7 August 2020, although this seemed to be because it had to issue a new annuity 
quotation. 
The provider issued Mr C a new annuity quotation, dated 10 August 2020, which had 
a guarantee expiry date of 7 September 2020. The quotation said the annuity would 
pay an annual income of £1,177.80.
On 26 August 2020 the annuity provider said that it hadnt received the required 
forms or payment of the funds. Two days later Utmost said the payment had been 
sent to the provider.  
So, returning to the beginning of the process, I think Mr Cs initial instruction was clear in that 
it put Utmost on notice that an OMO and transfer request was imminent and that his cash 
fund wasnt to be switched. Unfortunately, Utmost wasnt able to accommodate the request 
not to switch the cash holding, but this was conveyed to Mr C on 2 July 2020 when he was 
given alternative ways of switching his funds if he wished to do so. But I dont think this was 
material to the transfer request as it didnt ultimately affect it. 
By this time Mr Cs broker had also contacted Utmost with a letter of authority for it to act on 
his behalf. The letter said the above client wishes to transfer policy xxx. This is a full fund 
transfer and (the new provider) are to pay any tax free cash. It also set out what it required 
Utmost to do which included, ensure additional correspondence or requirements are sent to 
broker not direct to client..Please contact us on the number below if the case is out of the 
scope on Origo options  please send us transfer forms immediately.
At this point I dont Utmost had been formally instructed to commence the transfer process, I 
think it was a reasonable approach for it to wait until it had been contacted by the annuity 
provider. So I dont think it should have provided any additional transfer forms at this time  
but I do think it should have been aware of Mr Cs intention to exercise the OMO.
 
So when Utmost received a communication from the annuity provider, enclosing its 
requirements and the transfer request forms, Utmost should have begun the process in 
earnest. The annuity provider sent the transfer and open market form, along with other 
required documents, to Utmost on 7 July 2020. It asked for the form to be completed and 
returned along with the payment of the pension funds. So I think by 8 July 2020 Utmost 
should have had everything it required to progress Mr Cs transfer to a conclusion.
 
However, Utmost has said that, while it did receive confirmation that the provider had been 
instructed to set up an annuity for Mr C, it didnt receive the transfer request forms. And it 
also said that it sent an email to Mr Cs adviser on 8 July 2020, in reply to a previous request 
for information on 3 June 2020, which contained links to the general forms and information it 
held on its website.
But apart from the fact that this information was provided over a month after it was first 
requested and had been superseded by the commencement of the transfer process, I dont 
think it directed the adviser or even Mr C to the specific forms that might be required for an 
OMO. Indeed, it made no reference to the OMO or transfer request and, in my view, would 
have been seen simply as an answer to the information request from 3 June 2020. I havent 
been provided with any reason to support the claim that Mr C would have needed to look at 
the forms within the links  as Utmost didnt suggest that he would require any additional 
forms at that point.
Ive also looked carefully at the letter that the annuity provider sent to Utmost, which it 
received on 8 July 2020.  The first page of the letter was stamped as being received, so even if the transfer forms werent enclosed  which I cant confirm wasnt the case, the 
opening page of the letter stated that, Ive enclosed the following items that you may 
requireour transfer and open market form. Please complete this form and return along 
with the payment to.
So, even if the form wasnt enclosed, Utmost was made aware that it should have been, and 
I would have expected it to at least have contacted the annuity provider to explain the 
position and ask for a replacement form to be sent. But, considering Utmost said all the 
required forms were on its website and that it eventually sent the form to Mr C itself on 
27 July 2020, then I would have expected to Utmost to simply have sent the form itself to 
Mr C on 8 July 2020. 
Either way I dont think it was reasonable for Utmost to ignore the situation and not send the 
form until 27 July 2020. I note that the annuity provider chased for a response (received and 
date stamped by Utmost) on 17 and 27 July 2020 having not received the forms , and I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that Utmost responded to the first request at least  
either to ask for the forms if they hadnt been received or to send them to Mr C themselves.
So, on balance, I think Utmost could have done more to get the forms to Mr C when it 
received the initial transfer confirmation from the annuity provider. If I say Utmost should 
have sent the forms to Mr C on 8 July 2020, I think they would have been received within 
three working days  which is what happened when it eventually sent the form on 
27 July 2020. This meant Utmost would have received a completed form by 13 July 2020 at 
the latest.
 
Utmost then had four working weeks to send the completed forms and funds to the annuity 
provider before the expiry date of its annuity quotation.  The actual situation, which is the 
best guide to what might have happened here, is that after it received Mr Cs completed 
forms, Utmost was able to send the forms to the annuity provider and deposit the funds in its 
bank account within around three and a half weeks. 
Utmost hasnt provided any commentary for why the final part of the process took three and 
a half weeks although its told us in its submissions that the funds were paid by 
14 August 2020. And Ive also taken into account that Utmost accepted that its response 
times had been affected by the higher volumes of enquiries arising from the global pandemic 
 which isnt an unreasonable position given the difficult situation at the time. 
But, in any case, I think that if Utmost had acted in a timely manner to ensure Mr C was 
furnished with the necessary transfer request form  which I understand was the only 
outstanding form he was required to complete, then I think it would have been able to 
provide the annuity provider with both the form and the pension funds before the expiry of 
the first annuity quotation. 
So I think it follows that the provider would have been able to pay Mr Cs annuity using the 
original terms as set out in the first illustration  which means he would have received a 
higher annuity than he ultimately received.
Putting things right
So, I think Utmost needs to put Mr C as close to the position he would now be in if it hadnt 
delayed obtaining the transfer request forms and submitting them to the annuity provider in 
order that Mr C could have received the annuity terms set out in the first illustration he was 
provided with. To do that Utmost must carry out the calculation as set out below:Im satisfied that the transfer value noted in the original annuity illustration should be used. 
Theres very little difference between any of the transfer values used in the three quotations 
issued by the annuity provider, and Im satisfied that the amount of compensation would be 
broadly the same. It would seem fair and reasonable to use the information from the 
illustration that that Mr C was expecting to be used if all the requirements were met and the 
annuity provider received the forms and payment before 7 August 2020. 
So, Utmost needs to:
Work out Mr Cs past losses the difference between the net annuity payments he 
has received and what he would have received since the annuity was set up to date, 
if paid on the basis of the original illustration. Utmost should pay Mr C the difference. 
Utmost should also pay simple interest at 8% per annum on the difference between 
each payment from the date it was due to the date it was paid.
Work out Mr Cs future losses- calculate the cost of setting up an annuity (on the
same basis of Mr Cs current annuity) for the difference in annuity which hes lost
out on. The purchase price of the annuity being Mr Cs gross future loss. This
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction
to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid presumed to be 20%.
Utmost should also pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to his retirement planning during this time.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Utmost receiving Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Utmost deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Utmost should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Utmost Life and Pensions 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman