DRN-3123627
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC refused to pay the balances owed on six deposit 
receipts each for £250 which were deposited in 1980.
What happened
In 1980, Mr H made six deposits of £250 with Lloyds and received deposit receipts as 
confirmation. The nature of these deposits was that only two transactions were permitted  
the deposit and the redemption  and the redemption could only be completed by physical 
surrendering the deposit receipts to Lloyds in branch.
In October 2020, Mr H contacted Lloyds as hed found the deposit receipts and wanted to 
redeem the deposits  all of which should have accrued interest at a variable rate since 
1980. Lloyds declined Mr Hs request as they could find no record of the deposit amounts 
still being held with them. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Hs complaint. They explained that they usually only retain details of 
financial transactions for a period of ten years, and that they had no record of these 
balances anywhere on their systems. Lloyds therefore maintained that they couldnt pay the 
deposit amounts plus interest to Mr H as he would like because they had no way to verify the 
legitimacy of such payments. However, Lloyds did acknowledge that there had been delays 
when dealing with Mr Hs complaint, and they made a payment of £75 to Mr H to 
compensate him for this.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, and felt that the nature of the deposits meant 
that the fact he had the deposit receipts was proof that the deposits had never been 
redeemed. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that if the deposits had never 
been redeemed, then it was more likely than not that at some point a record of these 
balances would have been entered into Lloyds systems. And, given that Lloyds couldnt 
locate any record of these balances on these systems, they felt that it was possible that the 
deposits had been redeemed at some point in the past and that therefore it wouldnt be fair 
to ask Lloyds to pay Mr H in the manner that he was seeking. Because of this, our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that the nature of these deposit receipts, when they were first transacted by Mr H in 
1980, was that the only way the deposit amounts plus any accrued interest could be 
withdrawn was by physically surrendering the deposit receipts that Mr H now holds, I can 
understand how Mr H might feel that fact that he has the deposit receipts in his possession 
is proof that the deposits were never redeemed and that the money he deposited remains 
with Lloyds such that his request to now withdraw the deposit amounts plus accrued interest 
should be honoured.
Additionally, in his correspondence with this service, Mr H has stated that by law, if Lloyds 
had ever wanted to close the deposits so that they were no longer outstanding on their 
books, that they had an obligation as the holder of the deposit amounts to seek out Mr H and 
repay the balances owed  which Mr H contends never happened.
I can appreciate Mr Hs position here, but it must be noted that this service isnt a Court of 
Law and doesnt act as one. Instead, as an informal dispute resolution service, our remit is to 
impartially assess whether a fair or unfair outcome can be considered to have occurred. And 
considering Mr Hs complaint from this standpoint, I dont feel that it can be stated with any 
reasonable conviction that an unfair outcome has occurred here.  
The reason I say this is largely down to the passing of time. Over forty years have gone by 
since Mr H made the deposits in 1980. And while it may have been the case that at the time 
that the deposits were made, the only way to redeem these deposits was by surrendering 
the physical deposit receipts, I dont feel that the possibility can be discounted that the 
nature of how these deposits were recorded and maintained could have changed in the 
intervening years to date. 
Indeed, given the mass digitisation of the financial sector that has taken place since 1980, it 
seems plausible and reasonable to me that at some point the records of these deposits may 
have been digitised, such that it was no longer necessary for the deposit receipts to need to 
be physically surrendered to withdraw the balances. 
Furthermore, accepting that possibility, and given the decades that have passed since the 
initial deposits, if those balance amounts had been withdrawn or amalgamated into other 
existing accounts some time ago, for instance more than ten years ago, then it wouldnt be 
expected that Lloyds would retain any record of those transactions or of the initial deposits.
In essence, while I can appreciate Mr Hs conviction here, I feel that Lloyds are essentially 
prejudiced against by the passing of time in this instance, as any record that they may have 
which might confirm the above supposition  which as stated I consider to be plausible and 
reasonable  may no longer be retained by them, given the years that may have elapsed.
Mr H may contend that my position here is based purely on conjecture. But as stated, the 
remit of this service isnt to determine whether these balances remain legally valid but is to 
assess whether a fair or unfair outcome can be considered to have occurred. 
And, in this instance, I feel that theres simply too much that potentially might have occurred 
in the years since 1980  which Lloyds would no longer be reasonably expected to maintain 
a record of  to be able to state fairly that these balances remain valid and that Lloyds 
should honour the payments of these deposit receipts as Mr H would like.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but for the reasons outlined above 
it follows that I dont feel that Lloyds declining to honour these deposit receipts constitutes an 
unfair outcome in these circumstances, and as such I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr H will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman