DRN-2419107
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the support she received from Black Horse Limited when a hire 
purchase agreement reached the end of its term.
 
What happened
Mrs B acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in April 2017. 
The agreement was set to run for three years with payments of around £200 per month. 
After three years, Mrs B had the option to hand the car back, part exchange it, or take 
ownership of it by paying the balloon payment which was around £5,500. 
Towards the end of 2019, Mrs B told Black Horse shed moved to the Republic of Ireland. 
And in March 2020, she entered into discussions with Black Horse because the agreement 
was due to come to an end. Mrs B wanted to keep the car and spread the cost of the balloon 
payment over a few years. 
Black Horse said it was unable to complete a refinance application for Mrs B because she 
wasnt living in the UK anymore  one of the conditions required for running a credit check. 
And it said itd be unable to collect the car as it was outside of the UK. But it let Mrs B know 
what options she had. And it said that it would allow her to pay off the balloon payment over 
six months. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with the options. She says her business was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. And she didnt want to bring the car back to the UK because it would be deemed 
as non-essential travel. 
Mrs B looked at other options such as taking a bank loan. And her husband released money 
from his pension originally intending to use it to settle the balloon payment. But due to the 
financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs B says she and her husband wanted to use 
the money elsewhere. 
Mrs B continued to pay around £200 per month towards the agreement and wanted to carry 
on with that arrangement. But Black Horse said it either wanted the agreement settled, the 
car to be returned, or it would consider recovering the goods. It did however agree to remove 
adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She acknowledged that 
Black Horse didnt tell Mrs B that shed be breaching the terms of the hire purchase 
agreement by taking the car outside of the UK for more than 28 days without its permission. 
But she noted Black Horse hadnt sought to enforce terms about that particular breach. 
Our investigator also thought about Black Horses refusal to accept a refinance on the 
balloon payment. But she didnt think Black Horse had acted unfairly. She said the refinance 
option was not something provided for in the agreement  it was something that Black Horse 
were offering customers impacted by Covid-19. But in Mrs Bs case, our investigator didnt 
think Black Horse acted unfairly because it was unable to complete a credit check on Mrs B 
as she lived in the Republic of Ireland. 
Our investigator thought Black Horse had acted fairly by accepting Mrs Bs payments of 
£200 per month while our service looked into the complaint. But she didnt think Black Horse 
had to accept this arrangement indefinitely. And she didnt think Black Horse needed to offer 
anything else. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She thought shed put forward reasonable proposals and didnt think 
Black Horse had been fair. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B acquired her car using a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear Mrs B has been adversely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
It cant have been easy and I appreciate the time and effort it has taken her to bring her 
complaint to our service. 
Ive first thought about whether Black Horse acted fairly when Mrs B told it shed moved to 
the Republic of Ireland. The terms of the hire purchase agreement say that Mrs B should 
have asked for consent to take the car outside of the UK for more than 28 days. From what I 
can see, Mrs B moved the car permanently to the Republic of Ireland before getting consent 
or speaking to Black Horse about it. So, it looks like she broke the terms of the agreement. 
Given Mrs B was up-to-date on her agreement, and shed completed the necessary 
paperwork for the car to be used in the Republic of Ireland, Black Horse allowed her to 
continue on with the arrangement. I think this was fair of it in the circumstances. But I do 
think it would have been helpful for Black Horse to inform Mrs B about the limitations of 
taking the car outside of the UK when it was first made aware. However, in this case, Mrs B 
had already moved. It likely wouldve been very inconvenient, and possibly costly for her had 
Black Horse decided to terminate her agreement when she took the car permanently outside 
of the UK. 
Ive then gone on to think about how Black Horse handled things when Mrs B came to the 
end of her agreement.
From what I can see, Mrs B was speaking to Black Horse about her options in the weeks 
and months leading up to the agreement coming to the end of its term. Its clear she wanted 
to keep the car. So, Ive focussed on Black Horses response to this. I can understand Mrs B was disappointed when she found out Black Horse would not offer 
the option to refinance as she was living outside of the UK  particularly when it was offering 
this option to other customers. Black Horse may have been offering some UK based 
customers the option to refinance their balloon payments. But Im mindful the agreement 
doesnt set out that consumers have the right to refinance their balloon payment. Ultimately, 
the balloon payment is due as a single payment. So, I cant say Black Horse broke the terms 
of the agreement by not offering Mrs B the option to refinance. 
Furthermore, I think Black Horse has tried to work with Mrs B to find a suitable way forward. 
I can see Black Horse pushed back the due date of the balloon payment more than once. It 
offered Mrs B the option to spread the cost of the balloon payment over six months. And it 
also reminded Mrs B of the other options she had available to her  such as settling the 
agreement or handing the car back. Black Horse continued to accept Mrs Bs contributions 
towards the balloon payment while our service has been looking into the complaint. And it 
agreed to remove negative markers on Mrs Bs credit file  even though the balloon payment 
had become due. It also looks like Black Horse was willing to refund Mrs B the payments 
she made after the balloon payment had become due, if she handed back the car. But as 
Mrs B had covered more than the mileage limit, she wouldve had to pay for the excess 
mileage.  
Ive also thought about whether Black Horse shouldve offered alternatives for any other 
reason. Mrs B says she couldnt afford to pay the balloon payment in one go because of the 
impact of Covid-19 on her finances. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance 
for car finance companies setting out the temporary support that should be offered for 
customers facing payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. The Covid-19 guidance was for 
temporary support but Mrs Bs inability to pay the balloon payment was not a short-term 
problem. So, I dont think the FCAs Covid-19 guidance would have led to the support Mrs B 
needed.
For completeness sake, I should also point out there was pre-existing guidance from the 
FCA for customers who were in financial difficulties. But, for the reasons set out above, I 
think Black Horse has followed the core FCA rules and guidance for customers in financial 
difficulty by treating Mrs B with forbearance and due consideration. 
Taking all this into account, in the round, I think Black Horse has acted fairly. Its provided 
various options to support Mrs B. But as its not able to complete a credit check on a 
customer outside of the UK, its not able to offer Mrs B a longer-term refinance. It looks as 
though Black Horse isnt able to offer refinancing options to anyone outside of the UK  not 
just Mrs B. So, I dont think it acted unfairly towards her. Therefore, while I sympathise, and I 
hope that Mrs Bs situation has now improved and that she can afford to pay the outstanding 
balance, Im not going to direct Black Horse to take any action. I would suggest that Mrs B 
gets in touch with Black Horse to discuss a suitable way forward. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman