DRN-3992512
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F, who are represented by a professional representative who I will call T, have 
complained that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited trading as GE Money Home Lending 
(GE) unfairly turned down their claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In January 2008 Mr and Mrs F acquired membership points from a timeshare company I will 
call L. These points could be used in exchange for holiday accommodation. The cost was 
£20,590 which was funded by loan from GE of £14,995 and the balance was the trade in 
value of a previous timeshare purchase. Details of that previous purchase have not been 
supplied by T, but it has been suggested it was a trial membership. The accommodation was 
provided by another company which I will call C.
In October 2017 T made a lengthy claim to GE which asserted that the product had been 
misrepresented and Mr and Mrs F had been subjected to harassment. GE rejected the claim 
and said T had given insufficient details of the alleged failings of L or C and in any event the 
claim had been made out of time. GE also treated the claim as a complaint and gave referral 
rights to this service and T contacted us.
T has taken the approach that it is making a group or mass claim and so it included many 
references to matters which are not relevant to Mr and Mrs F. I am only concerned with their 
complaint and so I have endeavoured to extract the relevant information from the material 
submitted. The complaint submitted by T seems to be based on the following: 
It said that L didnt pay the money over to C which provided the accommodation, but 
it was a dormant company and so Mr and Mrs F acquired a membership which was 
worthless. It argued that GE had lent money to Mr and Mrs F to acquire membership 
of a club which never traded. It stated that the club is managed by a separate 
management company which takes maintenance fees from Mr and Mrs F. It states 
that as no money is given to the club this creates an unfair relationship.
It claimed that the interest charged by GE was excessive.
It claimed that there was an unfair relationship under s.140A CCA and plead in 
support the decision of Link Financial Ltd v Wilson. 
It stated that the people acting as agents for L or C were self-employed and so were 
motivated to make sales. This meant Mr and Mrs F had been pressurised. 
It alleged the compliance checks were a delusion.
It also referred to what it describes as similar fact evidence (SFE) in addition to 
material supplied by Mr and Mrs F which it believes are pertinent to their claims.
It suggested that the product was misrepresented in numerous ways in order to make 
sales. 
It said GE hadnt made sufficient checks as to the affordability of the loan.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She said it wasnt clear that there was a debtor, creditor, supplier agreement in place 
give the money was paid to L, but the goods were supplied by C. However, she said that 
given she thought the claim failed on other grounds she did not believe it required further 
consideration.
She thought the s.75 claim fell outside the required time limits. As for s.140A she noted GE 
had been unable to find the loan agreement and so she thought it reasonable to conclude 
the account had been closed more than six years prior to the complaint being raised. She 
considered s.32 and whether the time limits could be extended, but found no basis for an 
extension. Finally she addressed the issue of the affordability of the loan. Little or no 
information had been given on this issue and she didnt consider there were grounds for 
upholding this element of the complaint.
T didnt agree and said no account had been made of the SFE. It said that the date of the 
cause of action should be reconsidered in light of information in the SFE files. It then referred 
to our rules contained at DISP2.8r (2) which allow complaints to be considered three years 
from the date on which the complainant became aware or ought reasonably to have been 
aware that they had cause for the complaint. T suggested that this rule hadnt been 
considered and it would not be fair to reject the claim on the basis it was made out of time.
It reiterated that the relationship was unfair due to L not paying money over to C which had 
been inactive. Mr and Mrs F had paid over £20,000 to become members of a dormant club. 
It argued this meant excessive commission had been paid to L. It went on to say that it 
amounted to a bribe and our approach was unfair.
It went on to refer to a Spanish Court decision in 2020 which it said showed C ran a 
fraudulent operation.  It said GE should have disclosed Cs conviction. 
It said the clubs product has always been incapable of being delivered. 
I asked for an electronic copy of the SFE which was supplied by T. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read the relevant material that has been supplied to me, I may not 
address every point that has been raised. Several claims have been made, some to GE and 
some via our service. I will deal with each in turn. 
However, firstly I will address the SFE which T sets great store by. The bundle which runs to 
over 1,600 pages is not, in the main, similar fact evidence. It is a collection of material 
including copies of legislation, court cases in the UK and elsewhere, articles, information about C and its operations plus over 100 statements from consumers. T has not chosen to 
direct me to specific evidence relating to this complaint, however I have sought to identify 
anything which might assist in my role in reaching a decision. I would add that my role is to 
consider the complaint made by Mr and Mrs F and the relevant facts put forward on their 
behalf. It is not to decide on the wider issues relating to the timeshare industry. 
In this case, s. 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within s.12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect 
of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, 
who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr and Mrs F paid for goods or services using 
certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible.
The key issue I need to decide in this case is whether GEs decision to decline the s. 75 
claim was fair. To decide this, I must consider whether Mr and Mrs Fs claim meets the 
requirements of s. 75, as set out by the CCA. These criteria include the following points:
(a) There must be the required relationship between the debtor, creditor, and supplier;
and
(b) There must be a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier.
Unless the above criteria are met in the circumstances of this case, I wouldnt consider GE 
to have acted unfairly when refusing Mr and Mrs Fs claim. Ill consider each of these points 
in turn.
On the matter of the required debtor, creditor, supplier agreement GE says that s. 75(1) 
does not apply here because the loan funds were sent to L, not to C. That is, they were not 
sent to the party against which Mr and Mrs F say they have a claim. I note however that the 
seller of the points named in the sale contract was L. It may be that a different company or 
companies are responsible for providing the individual services associated with the club 
membership, but any claim Mr and Mrs F might have for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation would be against L, the party with which they contracted. 
S. 75: Misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs F complain that the timeshare was misrepresented on a number of grounds as 
set out above.
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under s. 75 of the CCA. The claim 
against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the supplier 
provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a s. 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under s. 9 of 
the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr and Mrs Fs claim was made out of time under the LA. 
But the Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether GEs response to the claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs F entered 
into the purchase agreement. I say this because they entered into the agreement based on 
the alleged misrepresentation by the supplier  which they relied on. And, on the basis that 
Mr and Mrs F took out a loan from GE to pay for the purchase, it was at that point that they 
suffered the loss. It follows therefore that I think the cause of action in regard to the purchase 
accrued in 2008, and this means that Mr and Mrs Fs claim for misrepresentation under s. 75 
had to be made within six years of that date. As the claim wasnt made until 2017, I think its 
likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set out in the LA.
I would add that T appears to have confused the rule under which we can consider 
complaint and the rules relating to the time limits for making a claim under s. 75 or s.140. 
The DISP rules set out the time limits under which we operate when considering if a 
complaint was made in time. In this matter there is not dispute that the complaint was made 
to this service in time, but that does not mean that the claim which is subject to different 
rules and legislation was made in time.
S. 75: Breach of contract
It is unclear when T considers Mr and Mrs F may have lost out due to breach of contract. It 
has concentrated on the alleged misrepresentation. However, it has said that the club 
products were always unable to be delivered. In reality according to the personal statement 
from Mr F they did make use of the timeshare and had a number of holidays. I note that they 
say they were unable to get holidays some years or they were not what they were seeking, 
but it is clear that they made use of the accommodation. 
The relevant date is the date of any breach, but none has been established. Therefore, I 
have not been given any grounds which would allow me to uphold this part of their 
complaint. I would add that I am aware that C went into administration in 2020, but that the 
operations have been taken over by another company and I understand that members are 
still able to access accommodation. That would not amount to a breach of contract.
S. 140A claims
Under s. 140A and s.140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider 
whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate 
orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and 
refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any related agreement. Whilst the position is not entirely clear, its likely that the 
sale agreement was a related agreement here.
The Limitation Act applies to a claim under s.140A. Im satisfied the relevant limitation period 
is six years and time starts to run from the date the credit agreement ended - if it was not still 
running when the claim was made. 
GE has told this service that it has no record of the account and in the absence of evidence 
to the contrary it would seem reasonable to conclude, as our investigator has done that it 
ended more than six years before the complaint was made. Indeed T, in its response to the 
view issued by our investigator has not suggested otherwise. If that is correct the s.140A 
claim has been made out of time.
I realise Mr and Mrs F may well say they didnt know about these time limits - but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period.
Were the right affordability checks carried out at the time of sale?
T has suggested that proper checks were not carried out at the time of sale. I have seen no 
evidence that Mr and Mrs F found the loan unaffordable. It would appear it was repaid early. 
I have seen no evidence of what checks were carried out, but when considering a complaint 
about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether the complainant has actually 
lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if GE did not do appropriate checks 
(and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I 
would need to see that Mr and Mrs F lost out as a result of its failings. Mr and Mrs F have 
provided no evidence whatsoever that they would have found it difficult to repay the loan, so 
I do not need to consider this point further.
Interest Charges
T has suggested the rate of interest charged was excessive, but I note from the fixed sum 
loan agreement it has supplied the rate is clearly set out as are the monthly payments plus 
the term. It was open to Mr and Mrs F to seek alternative finance or indeed to pay for the 
membership without finance if they had sufficient funds. On the basis the loan was repaid 
early it would appear they had an alternative source of funds and so they may well have 
addressed any concerns about the interest rate many years ago.
Conclusion 
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and Mrs F may have 
against C/L or GE is merited and in time. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont 
think GE has treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly or acted unreasonably so I cant properly require 
it to compensate them or do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman