DRN-1778225
The complaint
Mrs A complains that the car she acquired through Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the car, cancel the finance agreement and 
have her deposit refunded.
What happened
Mrs A entered a hire purchase agreement in March 2019 to acquire a used car. At the time 
of acquisition, the car was just around three years old and had been driven 30,000 miles. 
She put down a deposit of just over £4,000 and signed a hire purchase agreement for the 
balance over a period of two years. Mrs A told us there were a number of faults with the car 
and she doesnt think it was of satisfactory quality. Mrs A says:
one of the two car keys she was given didnt work and this caused her some 
inconvenience; she had to return to the dealership five days later to have the problem 
resolved and the key re-programmed;
there was a fault with the front heated seats; they didnt heat up properly when the 
full power option was selected. She says the dealership looked at the seats and said 
there was no fault with them; it told her the seats were made of thick leather and the 
heating was working as intended;
there was a fault with the cars Bluetooth functionality, and she couldnt get it to work. 
She booked the car in for a routine system update in June 2019, but the dealership 
kept the car for 48 hours; couldnt fix the problem; and then got lost when it tried to 
return the car to her using up her mileage allowance and her fuel;
two warning lights came on in the car, one related to a warning that diesel exhaust oil 
was required. She had to call out a third party for assistance on both occasions. 
Mrs A says the third party sorted both problems and told her the car shouldve been 
sold to her with sufficient diesel exhaust oil - it shouldnt have run out after just three 
months;
shes had a car tyre puncture, which she finds unusual as shes never had one on 
any previous vehicle.
Mrs A says shes been given £200 for her distress and inconvenience but its not enough  
she wants to reject the car, have the finance agreement cancelled and get her deposit back.
Black Horse said it was satisfied that the car supplied to Mrs A was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale and it rejected much of Mrs As complaint. It did, however uphold one 
aspect of the complaint.
It said it had spoken to the dealership and had to conclude that the issue with the key had 
been satisfactorily resolved; the dealership had no record of a fault with the key or any 
outstanding concerns about it from Mrs A. And it didnt uphold this complaint point.
Black Horse said the dealership confirmed it had investigated the heated seats when Mrs A 
had first expressed concerns about them, but it had been unable to find fault with them. It 
said it was unaware she still had concerns with the heated seats, and it was happy to look at 
them again if Mrs A booked the car in with it. Because of this, Black Horse didnt uphold 
Mrs As complaint about the heated seats.
Black Horse acknowledged there were issues with Bluetooth connectivity. It says the vehicle 
manufacturer was aware of ongoing issues and is working on a software update to resolve 
the matter. It says Mrs As car isnt currently compatible with the very latest version of her 
mobile phones operating system. And it highlighted that further details about this are 
highlighted on the manufacturers website. It rejected this complaint point; it said this did not 
indicate there is a fault with the vehicle. And it couldnt be held responsible for mobile phone 
software updates released by third parties.
Black Horse confirmed that a third party had attended Mrs As vehicle in July 2019 when she 
reported the illumination of a warning light. An investigation confirmed a fault with some 
wiring. It says the wiring was replaced and the vehicle was tested with no further issues 
identified. Black Horse said that because only a few months had elapsed since Mrs A 
acquired the car. It accepted it was plausible that the issue with the wiring was in the early 
stages of development at the time of finance inception and it paid Mrs A £150 for the trouble 
and upset shed experienced. Black Horse acknowledged that although this problem did not 
affect the cars performance, the warning light wouldve restricted Mrs As use and 
enjoyment of her car.
Separately, the dealership wrote to Mrs A to explain the cause of the other warning light. It 
said the illuminated warning wasnt an error or a fault. It was indicating that the level of the 
diesel exhaust fluid was low, and it accepted it shouldnt have released the vehicle to her 
without checking the fluid level. The dealership explained that this particular fluid was a 
consumable and needs topping up regularly in the same way as fuel or screen wash.
The dealership confirmed that all top ups of diesel exhaust fluid are covered by Mrs As 
service plan. And it said it as a gesture of goodwill it had put a full tank of fuel in Mrs As car.
Following further information from Mrs A, Black Horse looked again at the issue shed first 
experienced with the faulty car key that needed re-programming. Black Horse said this 
matter had been remediated before Mrs A raised her complaint, but it acknowledged the 
inconvenience it wouldve caused her in having to return to the dealership to resolve the 
matter. So, it paid Mrs A an additional £50 in recognition of this.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
considered each of the complaint points in turn and explained why she didnt think the 
vehicle was faulty or that Mrs A had a right to reject the car. And she thought the £200 
compensation paid by Black Horse was fair and reasonable.
Mrs A disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says the dealership shouldve 
informed her that the vehicle may not be compatible with her mobile phone. And if it had 
done so, she would not have bought the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs A is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied 
"the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around three years old and with a mileage of around 30,000. 
I think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would expect that over 
time there would be issues with maintenance and repair since components of the car would 
have been subject to wear and tear through use.
Car Keys
Mrs A was given two keys with the car. Theres no dispute between the parties that one of 
the keys didnt work as it shouldve done and Mrs A complained about this on the day that 
she collected the car.
Im satisfied that this was a customer service issue and I dont think this has any bearing on 
my consideration of whether the car was of satisfactory quality. I say this because this issue 
arose simply because the dealership didnt check that both keys worked properly before 
handing them over to Mrs A. And once Mrs A notified it of the problem, it quickly re-
programmed the key and I understand theres been no further associated issues. 
In order to have the key re-programmed, Mrs A did have to make an unnecessary journey to 
the dealership premises which must have caused her some inconvenience. But Black Horse 
recognised this, and it paid her £50 for the trouble and upset this caused. Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Heated Seats
Mrs A says the heated seats in the front of this car do not get as warm as the heated seats 
in her previous car, and she asked the dealership to investigate this for her when she told it 
about the problem with the car key. The dealership confirmed it had looked at the heated 
seats and found no fault with them. And it explained that different types of seat coverings 
affect how warm a heated seat may feel. And it said the thick luxury leather seats in Mrs As 
car may have caused the seats to feel less warm than in her previous vehicle.
I find this explanation plausible and credible and Im satisfied this does not indicate an issue 
with the satisfactory quality of the car. Ive also noted that Mrs A hasnt provided any 
evidence, other than what she says, to demonstrate its likely there is a fault with the heated 
seats. Im therefore not satisfied, on balance, that there was a fault with the heated seats 
that made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
Bluetooth connectivity
Mrs A experienced problems with Bluetooth connectivity and, despite some system updates, 
she cant connect her mobile phone to the cars Bluetooth. Black Horse says theres nothing wrong with the vehicle; Mrs As mobile phone operating system is more advanced than the 
software in the car.
Ive considered this very carefully. I can understand how not being able to use her mobile 
phone in the way she mightve wanted would be disappointing for Mrs A. But I dont think this 
shows that the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
I say this because the car manufacturer acknowledges on its website that it isnt possible for 
it to keep up to date with the fast-developing world of mobile phone technology. As mobile 
phone providers update their technology, the car manufacturer develops and releases 
regular updates to its in-car systems. But I think its inevitable theres a compatibility risk 
when buying a three-year-old car and owning a much newer mobile phone. And, in time, the 
manufacturers software updates should ensure compatibility.
Furthermore, I dont think the dealership couldve been reasonably aware of which model of 
mobile phone Mrs A owned and, as a result whether or not thered be any compatibility 
issues between the mobile phone and the cars Bluetooth software. And if the Bluetooth 
functionality was important to Mrs A, I think she couldve tested the connectivity before she 
agreed to take the car.
Taking all this into account, Ive seen nothing that suggests the cars Bluetooth is faulty; its 
simply that its incompatible with the operating system of Mrs As current mobile phone. So, I 
dont think the issue with Bluetooth connectivity means that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the outset.
Diesel exhaust oil
The issue with the Diesel exhaust oil  Adblue  caused Mrs A both anxiety and 
inconvenience. Warning lights came on in the car and she had to use a third party to solve 
the problem, so I can understand her concerns with this. Adblue is added to diesel vehicles 
in order to reduce harmful nitrogen oxide emissions and its added to a dedicated Adblue 
tank.
Ive considered this very carefully, but I think this was a customer service matter and not 
something that affects the satisfactory quality of the car. And its not something I can hold 
Black Horse responsible for.
I say this because the dealership acknowledged it had made a mistake  it shouldve 
ensured that the Adblue had been topped up before it released the car to Mrs A. It explained 
the purpose of Adblue and said the levels of it needed monitoring in much the same way that 
the levels of screen wash should be monitored. And it would need topping up regularly.
The third party topped up the level of Adblue and the dealership confirmed that checking the 
level of this in the future and topping it up was fully included in Mrs As service plan. It 
apologised and said as a gesture of goodwill it had provided her with a full tank of fuel. 
Wiring warning light
In July 2019, several months after acquiring the car, Mrs A needed to call on the assistance 
of a third party because of a warning light; the DEF light was illuminated. The third party 
reported that the circuit was open, and the wiring was faulty. Black Horse confirmed that the 
wiring was replaced and tested by the dealership and no further faults have been raised 
subsequently.Im satisfied that in view of the short time that elapsed between Mrs A acquiring the car and 
the fault arising  just 4 months  its more likely than not that the fault was present or 
developing at the point Mrs A took out the finance agreement with Black Horse. And as a 
result, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out the remedies available where goods are considered 
not to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies when a fault arises is to allow an 
opportunity to repair the goods. In this case, the dealership has repaired the fault already, 
and no further issues have been reported. So, I think this is a reasonable remedy.
However, I think it is also fair to consider the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs A 
in getting this fault repaired and the anxiety that the warning light wouldve caused. 
Black Horse has already paid Mrs A £150 in recognition of this, and I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Punctured tyre
Mrs A says shes had a car tyre puncture, and this is unusual because shes never had one 
on any previous vehicle. Ive considered this point, but I dont think this has any bearing on 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
I say this because many factors influence the puncturing of a car tyre; the way the vehicle is 
driven; the general road conditions; and sheer misfortune  a discarded item lying in the 
road. And I simply cant hold Black Horse responsible for this.
Summary
Taking everything in consideration, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Im satisfied 
that only one of the issues with the car  the faulty wiring  indicates that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs A. But Im also persuaded that the fault with 
the wiring has been satisfactorily addressed and remediated appropriately.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman