DRN-3365815
The complaint
Mrs V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed her for funds she lost as the 
victim of an investment scam.
What happened
In September 2017, Mrs V began investing with company T. She sent payments by bank 
transfer, credit card and debit card. This case is in relation to the debit card and bank 
transfers from two of her HSBC bank accounts. Mrs V sent the payments to other parties, 
but was provided these details by T and saw the funds appear in her trading account.
In October 2017, Mrs V wanted to withdraw her funds as she needed the money shed 
invested for something else. She wasnt able to and this was when she realised shed been 
the victim of a scam. She complained to HSBC and asked it to help her recover the funds, 
but no money was returned to her. She raised a complaint and when this wasnt upheld, 
came to our service. HSBC said that it had actioned her requests to send the funds and that 
it wasnt able to recover any money from the beneficiary bank in relation to the transfers.
Our investigators final view was to partially uphold Mrs Vs complaint. He said that HSBC 
ought to have intervened when Mrs V made her first online transfer towards this scam, as 
she sent over £13,000 to a new, international payee. And then he felt her last debit card 
payment shouldve also flagged, as there was a warning for this firm on the IOSCO website 
which sets out warnings on firms acting without regulations. 
Mrs V accepted the assessment. HSBC disagreed and asked for a decision. It said that 
Mrs V didnt do enough research into T before she invested to satisfy herself it was safe to 
invest the amount she did. It didnt consider the payments she made unusual as it said she 
had done a number of international transfers before and had large amounts in and out of her 
account in the month before the first bank transfer. And it didnt consider it couldve 
unravelled the scam with a phone call. In relation to the IOSCO warning, it said this was for 
another country and so it didnt agree it shouldve blocked payments to that firm off the back 
of a warnings from outside the UK. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The first four debit card payments made by Mrs V are of relatively low value and fit in 
with the usual spending on her account. So I dont consider these ought to have 
prompted any intervention from HSBC or that they should be reimbursed by it. 
Based on Mrs Vs statements and the screenshots from her trading account, she sent 
the first bank transfer before she made the fifth, final debit card payment. But both of 
these were made on the same day and Im aware that card payments can be delayed 
on statements. So Ive considered both orders of events, but my conclusions are the 
same.
Ive reviewed Mrs Vs statements and I do agree the first bank transfer was out of 
character for her and HSBC shouldve intervened. Until August 2017, Mrs Vs 
account doesnt show regular transfers or payments above c.£2,500. So in relation to 
the amount, a payment of c.£13,600 is unusual. I accept that Mrs V received two 
credits into her account of over £20,000 each in August 2017 and then transferred 
out £40,000. But I dont agree these mean the bank transfer wasnt unusual.
The £40,000 payment was a transfer to another account  so not a debit to another 
party. From the statements we hold, Mrs V didnt routinely send large, international 
payments. And as this was new payee, I think this shouldve flagged to HSBC as 
both unusual and something that meant Mrs V could be at risk of some kind of fraud 
or scam. I appreciate HSBC wouldnt have known what was going on, but that is why 
I agree that it shouldve temporarily stopped this payment and contacted Mrs V to 
discuss it.
If HSBC had, I think its most likely Mrs V wouldve explained why she was making 
this payment. HSBC has said itself that there was no clear link between the person 
Mrs V was paying and who she was supposedly trading with  so I think this 
shouldve been a concern to the agent. And Mrs V has explained she was instructed 
by T on how to make payments and some manipulative tactics were used  so again 
concerning for HSBC. If it had called, I consider it wouldve established enough in 
this call to give Mrs V a scam warning and this wouldve prevented her from making 
further payments to T. If this transfer was before the final debit card payment, then 
this is therefore also included.
I note that Mrs V made her second bank transfer to this scam from a different bank 
account she held with HSBC. But as this was made as part of this same scam and I 
think intervention by HSBC on the first bank transfer wouldve stopped her making 
further payments, the fact this came from another bank account doesnt change my 
decision, as this payment wouldnt have been made.
If the final debit card payment was made before the transfer, then Im still of the 
opinion this should be refunded. As our investigator set out to HSBC, there is an 
IOSCO warning for the firm Mrs V sent this money too. And this warning was in place 
for over five months before the card payment was made.
Our service has made it clear that we consider banks should be engaging with the 
IOSCO and regulators warning lists and putting in place automated processes to stop 
payments to these firms, pending a conversation with the consumer. I consider the 
warning to that firm was in place long enough for HSBC to have acted on it and 
automatically blocked the final card payment. And then the above conversation 
shouldve taken place with Mrs V, unravelling the scam. So either way this payment 
and its associated fees are included in the reimbursement.Simply put, both payments Mrs V made on 22 September 2017 and all payments 
made from this date towards this scam should be reimbursed, as HSBC shouldve 
intervened on the first attempted payment made to the scam on this day.
HSBC has suggested that Mrs V didnt do enough to research the investments or 
protect herself against this scam and so she is liable for her losses. But I havent 
seen anything that suggests additional research by her couldve unravelled the scam 
at the time she was first involved in it. And I find her testimony plausible that she 
understood she was paying T, meaning she wouldnt have found the warning above 
at the time she was making payments. So I dont consider she does need to be held 
responsible in this case.
Putting things right
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Reimburse £41,741.27 representing the losses set out above and also refund any 
associated transaction fees. As the payments were made from two accounts the 
reimbursements should be made to the applicable accounts; and
Pay 8% simple interest on the refunds from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mrs Vs complaint against HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman