DRN-3483813
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund transactions she didnt recognise and 
closed her account.
What happened
Miss A noticed two payments to a merchant who Ill refer to as V. These payments were 
made using a newly issued debit card from Monzo. The details from the card, including the 
name, long number and security code (CVV) were used to make two online transactions.
Miss A had experienced other fraudulent uses of her account which Monzo had refunded. 
Miss A had also had replacement cards issued to her. 
Miss A told Monzo that no one else had her card details or access to her account (through 
the app on her phone), but she later found out that a close family member who Ill refer to as 
B had used her card to make the two transactions with V.
At the time of Miss As notification to Monzo, she wasnt aware of who had carried out these 
transactions and asked Monzo for a refund. Monzo concluded that Miss A was responsible 
for making these transactions after two transfers were made into her account the day before 
to fund the disputed transactions. The disputed transactions couldnt have been made 
without the two transfers because the account didnt have enough funds available.
Monzo declined to make a refund and decided to close Miss As account and issued a two-
month closure notice to her. Miss was unhappy with how Monzo had dealt with her claim and 
made a complaint which was investigated by Monzos complaint team. They didnt change 
their position and told Miss A that they wouldnt refund the two transactions. 
Miss remained unhappy with her issue and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
adjudicators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Miss A explained 
that B had regular access to her phone and knew where she kept her Monzo debit card. 
Miss A confirmed she hadnt notified the police because she didnt want to get B into trouble. 
Miss A said shed transferred money into her account to pay another merchant, although this 
never happened.
Monzo provided evidence of the transaction and their reasoning why they held Miss A 
responsible. Monzo also explained that Miss A had been active on her banking app when 
the disputed transaction was made.
Our adjudicator thought that the evidence showed it was Miss A who was responsible for 
making these transactions. He also thought it was reasonable for Monzo to close Miss As 
account and didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss A disagreed with the outcome and explained that shed been experiencing medical 
difficulties at the time. Miss A provided evidence that she was under medical supervision 
when the disputed transactions took place. Miss A asked for a further review of her 
complaint. 
Miss As complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Miss A liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss A authorised 
the transactions, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the card details and CVV conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss As account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss A. But, Ill now need to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to 
show that Miss A consented to the transactions.
Its Miss As case that B was responsible for taking her card and using it to make two 
disputed transactions. Miss A described how B had regular access to her phone and her 
card. Miss A said she kept the card in her room which B was able to enter.
Miss A also had several other claims about disputed transactions that were refunded, some 
by Monzo and one by a merchant. Monzo provided evidence of an earlier claim made by 
Miss A which shows all the purchases being delivered to her home address  which B also 
lives at. So, its apparent that there were numerous fraudulent uses of Miss As card and at 
least some of them show the items were delivered to the address where Miss A lives at. 
Monzo stated that Miss A had used the app on her phone at the time of the first disputed 
transaction which took place early in the morning. They went on to say that Miss A was 
active in the app for a few minutes, but no further action was taken (for example notifying 
Monzo about the unrecognised payment or freezing the card using the app).
Miss A said her card details were found on Bs phone and she hadnt been given any 
authority to use it. It was further explained that B had obtained the new card details, 
including obtaining the CVV, even though the card had only been renewed in the last few 
days.
Determining who made these payments here isnt straight forwards, thats because the card 
details themselves were used, rather than a payment using the app (which would require 
further security steps to access). Monzo confirmed that no additional payment steps were 
needed by the merchant before they accepted the two transactions. So  because it was 
only the card details used  I have to make my decision using the other factors available to 
me.
One of which is the activity on Miss As banking app at the time of the disputed transactions 
 which took place very early in the morning. I cant know if B was using the card details at 
that time in the morning, but B isnt very old and whilst they could have been awake, Im 
doubtful they would have been using the card details at the same time Miss A was awake 
using the banking app on her phone.Both Monzo and our adjudicator referred to the funding payments that were transferred into 
the account the day before the two disputed transactions  which Miss A said was to pay a 
bill with another merchant. No payment was made from the account to that merchant either 
on the day the transfer was made or at any time over the next few months. The statements 
show there were considerable sums transferred into the account, so presumably they could 
have been used to pay the merchant, but nothing is shown as leaving this account.
So, taking everything into account, my objective review of the evidence leads me to the 
conclusion that I think Miss A was more likely than not responsible for making these 
payments or allowing others to make them on her behalf. 
Even if I thought it was B making these transactions, I still think Miss A would have been 
responsible due to the ease with which B seemed able to obtain the card details of 
numerous debit cards. This included the new card details which were received within the last 
few days. Miss A is under an obligation to keep her card details from being used fraudulently 
and the repeated use of her card by B  seems to me to indicate that Miss A wasnt meeting 
this obligation. I also think that it would be unfair to instruct Monzo to refund Miss A because 
she wasnt prepared to report the issue to the police (although Miss A said shed reported it 
to Action Fraud). Whilst I understand she wouldnt want to get B into trouble  I dont think 
Monzo should be the ones to pay for that.
Medical Supervision
Ive also reviewed Miss As position that she was under medical supervision at the time of 
these two disputed transactions. I accept the evidence shes produced which shows that 
several months earlier Miss A was receiving treatment, and this continued at home. But, Ive 
also reviewed her use of her account and the chat history between her and Monzo. What 
this shows is that Miss A was active on her account, moving funds into and out of it on a 
regular basis after returning home. She was also able to raise several other issues she was 
having with her account with Monzo  and didnt mention her condition. 
I dont underestimate the difficulties Miss A was going through. But, the evidence indicates 
that she was able to carry out her usual banking activities and engage with Monzo about 
other issues she was having, I dont think this was reason to think the disputed transactions 
were affected by this situation.
Account closure
Monzo decided to close Miss As account which she considered was unfair. The terms and 
conditions of the account allow both parties to end their relationship with each other. There 
are various steps required to be followed depending on the reasons for closing the account. 
Here Monzo gave Miss A two months notice that the account was to be close which enabled 
alternative arrangements to be made. 
This was in line with the accounts terms and I dont think Monzo were unfair when they 
issued this notice. I understand it would seem as such on the back of the disputed 
transactions being refused, but as Monzo followed the appropriate process , which gave 
sufficient time to find alternative banking, I wont be asking them to do change anything.My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman