DRN-4057115
The complaint
Mr C complains Wise Payments Limited (Wise) reviewed and subsequently delayed his 
payment to another account causing him financial loss, inconvenience, and significant 
distress.  
What happened
On 27 May 2022, Mr C made a payment from his Wise account to one of his accounts 
overseas. Mr C says sending payments in this way normally took seconds, but on this 
occasion, he got sent a message from Wise saying the transfer needed to be checked and 
that this would be completed by 31 May 2022. 
Wise asked Mr C to send some information, which he did. 
As the transfer wasnt completed, Mr C called Wise around the 31 May 2022. Mr C says he 
was told checks were being run for compliance reasons, and he couldnt be given a firm date 
as to when this would be completed. Mr C says he was told it could take between 10 to 15 
days. 
Mr C asked for his transfer to be cancelled but was told this couldnt be done as it was 
subject to the checks Wise needed to complete. Mr C says he was in acute need of the 
money reaching his overseas account as he had financial obligations there that would 
otherwise default. 
Mr C also says that because of his money being withheld in this way, he had to take out a 
high-cost short term loan. Mr C says he has been caused significant distress and 
inconvenience. 
On 7 June 2022, Wise sent the transfer to Mr Cs nominated overseas account. 
Unhappy, Mr C complained. Wise didnt uphold his complaint. In summary, some of the key 
points it made were: 
- The checks were completed in line with section 9.1 of Mr Cs Customer 
Agreement. And the transfer was suspended because Wise needed to complete 
a sanctions review  
- In accordance with section 12.7 of its Agreement, the transfer remained on hold 
until Wise reviewed the information provided
- When Mr C first provided information for his transfer, he saw an estimate that it 
should have been completed by the 31st of May 2022. That was an estimate 
based on the general timeframe it can take Wises team to review information
- Around that time, Wise was experiencing a high volume of transfers, which 
increased the time it was taking to complete such reviews. It was taking around 
10-15 working days, with some as an exception taking longer
- Wise apologised for any confusion that was created by the initial estimate Mr C 
saw. And due to the misunderstanding around the verification time frame, and the 
inconvenience caused, Wise offered Mr C three free transfers up to the value of 
£100 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr Cs 
complaint, and in summary they found: 
- Mr C made a payment of £1,200 to his bank account overseas to cover essential 
bills, and he was happy to go ahead as he received confirmation it should reach 
the nominated account by 31 May 2022 
- Wise blocked Mr Cs payment and carried out additional checks which it was 
entitled to do so in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
- The estimated timescales for payments to be sent are on Wises website  they 
can take between 2 to10 working days. But had Mr C been provided these 
timescales before, he may have decided not to go ahead with the transfer 
- As Mr C was presented with the incorrect timescales of when the payment should 
reach the beneficiary account, Wise should pay him £75 for the stress and 
inconvenience this caused him    
Wise agreed with what our Investigator said. Mr C did not. In summary, some of the key 
points Mr C has made are: 
- Mr C agrees Wise carried out additional checks in line with the terms of the 
account, and in line with its obligations. But he challenges why it didnt reverse 
the payment and refund him the payment as per his eligibility under the terms of 
the agreement
- Clause 12.7 of the customer agreement says verification checks may increase 
the time it takes to process the payment, but clause 12.11 says Mr C can cancel 
the payment order before the funds are converted. Wise was not able to comply 
with Mr Cs rights under this section due to the system restrictions it had  
- If the above point holds true, Mr C should be awarded compensation 
proportionate to the amount of money he was sending and the significant mental 
duress he had to go through. He should also be given an apology in letter
As Mr C didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I know this will disappoint 
Mr C, so Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Wise, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship, which will include individual 
payments. Wise told Mr C it needed to complete a sanctions review of his payment. I note Mr C agrees 
that Wise has important obligations it must follow. 
But I still think its worth noting that Wise has important legal and regulatory obligations it 
must meet when providing accounts to customers, which includes ensuring no UK or other 
international sanctions might be breached. Those obligations are overriding in terms of 
otherwise meeting general timeframes for payments to process. And this is the same for 
every regulated financial business. This does mean that sometimes legitimate payments are 
justifiably delayed. 
Wise will monitor accounts and carry out specific or occasional checks to comply with its 
responsibilities. Wise wanted further information about the payment Mr C instructed it to 
make which he provided promptly. Having reviewed Wises actions, Im satisfied the hold on 
the payment to carry out checks was legitimate and reasonable. 
This brings me onto the crux of Mr Cs complaint. That is, the terms, specifically section 
12.11 say a customer may cancel their payment order before their funds are converted. So 
Mr C argues that Wise failed to apply its terms fairly, and its systems and processes failed in 
permitting this to happen. 
Section 12.7 of Wises customer agreement says We carry out verification checks, and 
these checks may increase the time it takes to process your payment order. We cannot be 
responsible for any delays as a result of carrying out those checks. 
So what Mr Cs argument boils down to is which terms takes greater precedence. Ive 
already said the obligations to which section 12.7 speaks to here are overriding. When 
presented with meeting its wider legal and regulatory obligations, or refunding Mr C his 
money, Im satisfied Wise acted fairly and in line with those obligations by continuing its 
checks.
On or after the 31 May 2022, Wise explained its checks could take up to 15 days to 
complete  and that there was no guarantee. Similarly, Wises website says payments can 
take 10 working days to reach its destination. Wise was able to complete its checks and 
send the money onto the nominated account within this timescale. 
Mr C says hes used Wise to transfer payments overseas on many occasions and has 
previously been very happy with the speed at which the payments arrive. I note Mr C says 
he had to take out a high-cost loan to help him meet his financial commitments. I cant be 
sure from what Ive see that these funds were exclusively for his commitments overseas. But 
ultimately, I dont think Wise did anything wrong in verifying the payment nor did it cause 
undue delay. So I dont think it needs to compensate Mr C for taking out this loan. 
Mr C has shown he was being chased for a credit card payment overseas. But I havent 
seen any statement or paperwork related to that credit institution charging him for a late 
payment or threatening to default his account. In any event, Im satisfied any consequence, 
or threat of, that Mr C suffered overseas because his payment was delayed wasnt because 
something Wise did wrong. 
I do however agree Mr C was given an incorrect timeframe of three days for a payment to 
clear overseas when Wises website says it could take up to 10 days. I note these 
timescales are not guarantees nor do they mitigate for any additional checks that may need 
to be carried out. None the less, Mr C relied on what he was told. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Wise should compensate Mr C for any distress and 
inconvenience this caused. When weighing up what I think is a fair amount, I need to also consider that Wises actions in reviewing the payment was fair. Im persuaded £75 is fair 
redress. 
Mr C argues this isnt proportionate compensation given the amount he was sending, and 
the impact this had on him. But as Ive said, the compensation here speaks to being 
misinformed about the timescales. Ultimately the basis of the checks, and added time 
through verifying the payment, were done so for legitimate and justifiable reasons.  
Finally, I dont underestimate the impact that Wise observing its obligations had on Mr C  
and I can appreciate why he feels so strongly about his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Wise Payments Limited must now pay 
Mr C £75 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman