DRN-3655615
The complaint
Mr M complains that West Bay Insurance Plc didnt pay him enough when he made a claim 
on his motorcycle insurance policy after his bike was stolen and not recovered. 
What happened
Mr M told us his bike was worth £2,400 due to its good condition and very low mileage. But 
West Bay only offered him £1,180 -  after making deductions for the bike having previously 
been a total loss, plus the policy excess. He said 12 dealership garages had all said West 
Bays valuation was too low - which was supported by the adverts hed seen. Mr M provided 
a valuation for his bike of £2,300 given to him by a dealership garage. It was taken from a 
valuation tool (V) that it and other dealerships told him they used. Mr M thought West Bays 
engineer had used the wrong data when consulting the national trade guides. He told us he 
wanted an extra £900 for the bike. Later on he said he also wanted £500 compensation for 
the stress hed faced, plus the time hed spent on the dispute.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He checked the trade guide figures and 
said he thought West Bays valuation was fair. He noted that its engineer had spoken about 
the valuation to Mr M and had discussed adverts found by Mr M and the engineer. The 
investigator pointed out that we didnt think advertised sales prices were usually reliable. 
Mr M said he wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said one of West 
Bays valuations was based on an inferior 2007 model (his bike was registered in 2001). He 
also said neither West Bay nor the investigator had taken into account the very low mileage 
and good condition of his bike  and that the wrong mileage was used in one valuation. He 
said the engineer didnt discuss the valuation properly with him and was argumentative and 
aggressive. Mr M provided five adverts for bikes he thought were like his, on sale for up to  
£2,790. And he said there was no flexibility on advertised prices in the bike market.
In later correspondence, Mr M pointed out that a note on our website said that some of the  
trade guides had advised us that vehicles were selling for close to their asking prices. He 
said the website also said adverts can be useful if they strongly indicate that the trade guide 
figures may be wrong. And he repeated that West Bays engineer had used the wrong data. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read the whole file, listened to the calls between Mr M and West Bays 
engineer and noted all the points made by the parties, I dont intend to address each one. Ill 
focus on the issues that I think are central to this complaint.
West Bay looked at three of the national trade guides to try to establish the likely market 
value of the bike. Thats in line with the approach we take. One of the guides didnt quote for 
it, but the other two quoted £2,114 and £1,831. We think its reasonable to take an average 
of the valuations an insurer finds if there isnt much between them, which is what West Bay 
did. The average of the valuations was £1,972. So thats what Mr M would have  been paid 
for the bikes market value had deductions not been made. Unfortunately, the 20% deduction 
for the previous total loss reduced the sum on offer to £1,578. And the £400 policy excess 
then had to be deducted. I think that was fair and reasonable.
I note that in one of the documents the bike was quoted as a 2007 model - and that in 
another, the mileage was wrong. But Ive checked that the figures West Bay used to get the 
valuation were based on the correct year and mileage  as were those used by the 
investigator, who found very similar figures in the trade guides. Mr M thinks the sum 
generated by valuation tool V should be the basis for the offer to him. But we have a long-
established approach to reviewing insurers offers, based largely on the trade guide figures. 
So despite the dealership garages relying on valuation tool V, it isnt something we use, and 
we cant validate its accuracy. 
I think it was fair for Mr M to point out that the current second-hand market in general now 
has little flexibility on price. The trade guides noted that was the case some time ago. I think 
its also fair to say that - as the guides base their figures on extensive national research, 
carried out continuously - current market trends will be reflected in them. 
In the calls with Mr M, the engineer explained that he thought the adverts hed found for 
bikes that were sold around the time Mr Ms bike was lost were in line with (or less than) the 
sum that West Bay had offered him for it. Mr M disagreed strongly that the bikes in question 
were reasonable comparators to his bike. The highest sold price West Bay found for a 2001 
bike was £1,540 and the lowest was £870, with an average sold price of £1,106. And it 
appears that only one of those bikes had been a previous total loss. The engineer also found 
two bikes for sale, at £2,399 (older and with slightly more mileage than Mr Ms bike) and 
£1,290. The latter asking price was in line with the sold prices on the other four bikes. 
  
During the calls, in my opinion, both Mr M and the engineer interrupted and talked over each 
other at times. But I think they both still managed to express their views and why they held 
them. I dont think the engineer was aggressive in his approach, as Mr M has stated, but the 
entrenched differences of opinion meant their conversations were generally robust.  
One of the reasons we dont find adverts reliable is that theres often so much variation in 
asking prices for what appear to be similar vehicles. In this case, whilst West Bays engineer 
found bikes he thought were similar to Mr Ms bike that had sold for £1,500 or less, Mr M 
found some he thought were similar to his on sale from around £2,300 to around £2,800. 
Two of the adverts seem to be for the same bike. Two others had no confirmed mileage, and 
one had less mileage but was four years older than Mr Ms bike.  
Sometimes, we think adverts show that the trade guides dont reflect whats likely to be a 
vehicles true market value. But thats normally when the available adverts are consistent. In 
this case, given the wide range of sold and advertised prices  some of which exceeded the 
sum suggested by the dealerships and valuation tool V - I dont think that applies. 
When he complained to us initially, Mr M said that he thought some of the deductions made 
by West Bay were unfair. He and the engineer discussed the deduction for the bike having 
been written-off previously. In that conversation, Mr M didnt appear to be happy with it, as in 
his opinion, the damage wasnt to the bikes frame and it had been repaired properly. But he 
told the engineer that one of the dealerships hed spoken to had told him there could be a 
15% to 30% reduction made to a valuation as a result of a write-off. 
Our view is that its reasonable for an insurer to make up to a 20% deduction if a vehicle has 
been written-off previously. Thats because it will be tarnished by that event in the eyes of potential purchasers and will sell for less than one that hasnt been classed as a repairable 
total loss. The other deduction West Bay made was for the £400 policy excess. As the 
agreed excess is payable on every claim, I think that deduction was fair too. 
I know Mr M will be unhappy with my decision, but as I dont think hes shown that West Bay 
acted unreasonably in the way it valued his bike, Im not able to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman