DRN-2790950
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK PLC cant tell him what happened to the money in an
account that he has the passbook for. Santander has told him the account is closed, but 
Mr F says Santander is responsible for telling him where the money went. 
What happened
Mr F said he had a savings account with a bank thats now part of Santander. He had
recently found the passbook. Recently he asked Santander to tell him where the money was,
or if it still had it. He said Santander had told him it couldnt help, so he wanted us to look
into this.
Santander said that it could see that the account was opened in 1997, then closed in 2008.
Santander said it just doesnt have records going back this far, so it couldnt tell Mr F exactly
what had happened to the money.
Santander said it was sorry that its branch hadnt been able to follow up on Mr Fs request to
look into this for him. It knew hed been to a branch before he rang with his query. It said that
Mr Fs request was made just before the first lockdown. The branch was shut very shortly
after, then reopened providing a very limited service. But Santander said that because the
branch hadnt got back to him, it wanted to pay Mr F £50 now to say sorry for that.
Our investigator thought Santander had made a fair offer. She told Mr F about the checks
Santander had done, to see if it could tell where Mr Fs money had gone. But it couldnt, and
our investigator said that she wouldnt expect it to still have this information. Its not required
to keep information for this long.
Our investigator could see there had been a delay in dealing with Mr Fs query, because the
branch had closed. She thought that Santander had made a fair offer to make up for that.
Mr F said the offer wasnt good enough. Hed opened the account with £1,000. Santander
had closed the account and moved the money to another account, but he didnt know which
one, or who had then closed the other account. Mr F said that if people put money in a bank,
it should be the banks responsibility to keep that money safe. He thought if that hadnt
happened then Santander ought to pay more compensation.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. And Mr F still wanted to know where his money had
gone. Because he and our investigator didnt agree, the case was then passed to me for a 
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I know that Mr F will be most concerned about whether Santander has to pay him 
back all the money that was in his account. So I should start by saying that I dont 
think Santander has to pay Mr F the £1,000 he says he opened this account with. I 
know Santander hasnt been able to tell Mr F what happened to the money in this 
account, but I wouldnt expect it to be able to do that, after all this time.
Santander has searched for this account on its records. It can see the old account 
did exist, and it can also see the account was then closed. Santander has shown us 
the screenshots of these searches, so I think theyve been done, and that its shared 
with Mr F all the information it has. I dont think that Santander still has Mr Fs money, 
and I havent seen anything at all to suggest that Santander took this money.
None of that proves what has happened to the money in this account. And I 
understand that Mr F thinks that Santander is responsible for keeping his money 
safe. He thinks Santander should have records, so it can prove what has happened 
to his money.
But banks and building societies arent supposed to keep hold of personal 
information forever. The law on protecting peoples personal information says that 
banks arent supposed to keep information if they dont have a business need for it. 
So Santander cant just hang on to information about things like this for many years, 
in case Mr F might ask about it in future. Its not allowed to do that.
The last records we have of this account are from well over ten years ago. So I dont 
think its surprising, if this account was closed some time ago, that Santander doesnt 
still have a record now of where the money was transferred or paid to.
I dont think Santander has to do more than this to show Mr F what happened to his 
account.
But I do think Santander has made some mistakes in how it dealt with Mr Fs enquiry 
about his account. I think it has, unfortunately, caused some confusion in this case.
When Mr F called, Santander told him that he had another savings account open at 
the time when his passbook account was closed. I can see he did have other 
accounts at the time. But Santander also told Mr F that the money from his old 
passbook account would have been transferred into another savings account.
Its possible that this is what happened. But Santander didnt know that, and, as Ive
explained, Santander hasnt got any way to tell for sure what happened to this money 
when the account was closed.
So I dont think it was helpful for Santander to suggest to Mr F that money was 
transferred to another account held with it, when it doesnt know if that happened or 
not.
Santander also seems to have been unclear with Mr F about whether it had done 
everything it could to check what had happened to his money. I think it had done all 
those checks, but it just wasnt clear with Mr F about this.I can hear on a call on 14 August 2020, Santander said that if Mr F wanted to go into 
the branch, they would try to help him. Santander seemed to be suggesting that there 
might be more the branch could do to help Mr F. Mr F said that wouldnt be possible 
for him, and explained why he couldnt go to a branch at the moment.
When I asked Santander about this, it said that it had already done all the searches 
that the branch would do. And the dates of those searches appear to be before 
Santander spoke to Mr F. So I think it was unhelpful for Santander to suggest that Mr 
F made the trip to the branch. Santander should just have told Mr F that there was no 
more it could do.
So I do think that Santander has been unclear, when its set out for Mr F what it can 
do, and what it can tell Mr F.
I know Santander has already offered to pay Mr F £50 to make up for the branch 
never getting back to him about his query. I think Santander should pay £100 
instead. Thats to make up for the branch not responding to Mr Fs query. And its to 
make up for the confusion in the response that Mr F did eventually get.
I know Mr F wants more than this. He says there was £1,000 in this account. But I 
dont think Santander has to pay that. I dont think Santander lost this money, or that 
it kept this money.
Im just asking Santander to pay some compensation because I think it shouldve 
provided Mr F with a better service, when he asked about his account at the branch, 
and when it was explaining to him that it couldnt tell him where this money had gone.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr F didnt reply. Santander said it had nothing to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr F £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman