DRN-3807251
Complaint
Mr U complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr U is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2016, Mr U was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr U decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In January 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Us behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr U to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The system would not cost Mr U anything.
The system would be self-funding. 
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
The system would produce energy in line with the quote but based on generation 
figures, it was underperforming. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr U or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had led Mr U to 
believe the system would be immediately self-funding. But they did think the system had 
underperformed in terms of power generation compared to Ps estimates from the point of 
sale. They added that the estimates regarding the annual generation, FIT payments and 
electricity savings would have induced Mr U into entering the contract. So, they felt this 
aspect of the complaint should be upheld. 
Shawbrook didnt agree to our investigators view of the complaint. Shawbrook wanted to 
carry out an inspection to see whether there was a fault with the system. Our investigator felt 
Shawbrook had been given ample opportunity to complete its investigation and had not done 
so. In the interests of bringing matters to a close, they recommended Shawbrook offer 
redress to compensate Mr U for the losses he had suffered.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr U paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr U could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr U and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr U says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr U was told that the cost of the system was £8,766. The quote sets this 
out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price 
of the system was £8,766. The total amount of credit is £8,666 (after deducting a deposit of 
£100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £17,041.60.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £92.60. But I note 
Mr U deferred his payments for a few months which is reflected in his credit agreement and 
his monthly payment is also marginally different at £94.12  but I dont think these 
differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,766, it would 
cost Mr U more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr U has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr U could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr U could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £204.17, which results in an average monthly income of £17.01. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr U could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £349.86 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr U the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £938.51. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of £94.12. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment 
and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr U entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £92.60. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £92.60, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr U could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr U that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr U was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr U could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr U that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
This then leads me to consider the performance of the system. 
Underperformance 
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between P and Mr U. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2996 kWh a year. And the benefits shown in the quote were calculated 
based on that level of generation.
I have looked at Mr Us FIT statements and can see that the system, on average, has 
generated 1562.41 kWh. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system isnt performing as expected.
It is unclear why the system has underperformed, but Shawbrook has had sufficient time 
since the complaint was made to identify the underperformance and inspect the system. Yet 
it has not done so.
So, based on the evidence available to me, I think that P misrepresented the systems ability 
to generate electricity, and as a result the benefits it would produce relative to the cost of the 
loan. I think this misrepresentation induced Mr U into entering into the contract. Because of 
this, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr U fairly and he has lost out because of this. And 
this means that Shawbrook should put things right.
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr U does not suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should
generate roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork and MCS certificate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mr U and what the sales paperwork set out as being 
the annual total income savings, 
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr U
The finance agreement in question was due to end in 2031. To ensure that Mr U doesnt 
lose out going forward, Shawbrook should then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume 
that the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the original 
conclusion date of the finance agreement
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the original 
conclusion date of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) above
e) pay Mr U the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) above and 
the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
If Mr S has settled the loan early, Shawbrook should still ensure Mr S is compensated until 
the end of the original term of the loan. 
I can see Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and I 
think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should pay this as offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman