DRN-4321395
The complaint
N, a limited company, is unhappy with what QBE UK Limited did after it made a claim on its
Contractors Combined insurance policy.
All references to QBE include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2015 N carried out local authority funded renovation works for a customer. Solicitors
acting for the customer contacted it in late 2018 and alleged poor workmanship which had
resulted in damage to the consumers property.
N contacted QBE through its broker in January 2019. QBE says it advised the policy
wouldnt cover defective work but could cover damage. N didnt believe there were any
issues with the work it carried out and liability was denied to the claimants solicitors by QBE.
In July 2019 those solicitors provided a surveyors report which identified issues with the
work. QBE sent this to N. It provided comments in September. Having considered those
QBE continued to deny liability.
In April 2020 legal action was commenced by the claimants solicitors. QBE and N instructed
solicitors who maintained the denial of liability and entered a defence. In October
proceedings were stayed so those solicitors could get a surveyors report. That was obtained
by November 2021 (I understand there were delays as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic).
The report wasnt supportive of Ns position. Solicitors suggested N should be liable for 90%
of the costs with QBE responsible for the remaining 10% based on the split in the report
between issues with workmanship and damage.
QBE agreed liability would need to be conceded and the claim settled on the best possible
terms. N accepted that but didnt agree with the apportionment of costs. The claim was
subsequently settled at £35,000 plus reasonable costs. And those were split at 80% for N
with QBE responsible for the remaining 20%.
N didnt accept it should be responsible for 80% of the costs. And it said it was never told it
would potentially be liable for the other sides costs. It thought there were missed
opportunities to settle the claim at an earlier stage and, if it had been given clear information
about its potential liabilities, it would likely have done so. It argued it was QBEs decision to
defend the claim and it should be responsible for paying the claimants solicitors costs in full.
Our investigator didnt think QBE needed to make any further payment in relation to the
claim costs. It was reasonable of it to act in line with the findings of the expert report and the
conclusions it reached on the split between costs relating to damage and defective
workmanship.
And he accepted the policy didnt provide cover for third party legal costs incurred in
defending a claim. But he didnt think it would be fair for N to pay the costs of a decision
QBE had made (acting under the provisions of the policy which allowed it to take over and
conduct a claim). Nor did he think that QBE had made it clear to N that it could be liable for
claimant solicitors costs if the claim was defended.
He thought if that had been made clear then it was likely N would have sought to settle the
claim around July 2019 (when the expert report from the claimant was provided). And QBE
should be responsible for the claimant costs incurred from that date until the claim was
settled.
N didnt provide any comments. QBE did respond. In summary it said:
Following receipt of the report from the claimant liability was denied on the basis of
comments made by N who disputed its factual accuracy. And those comments werent
provided until September 2019.
N was aware its policy with QBE would only cover a proportion of the claim made against
it. And in October 2019 it was told only some of the claim would be met by the policy
meaning N was aware of its financial liability when deciding to continue to defend the
claim. And it gave separate instructions to the solicitors in relation to this. So QBE didnt
think N would have reached a different decision in July 2019 even if it had been given
more information about this earlier.
Our investigator asked QBE to provide the instructions to solicitors it referred to in its
response. QBE said it would do so but hasnt. Our investigator therefore advised wed
progress the complaint based on the information we did have.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say QBE has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ns policy. I understand the relevant section is
Contract Works which says the Insurers will at their option indemnify the Insured reinstate
or replace the property insured or any part thereof in respect of All Risks of Physical Loss or
Damage of whatsoever nature to: The Works
However, the policy excludes damage due to wear and tear, gradual deterioration,
mechanical or electrical breakdown or derangement or to defective workmanship, material,
design, plan or specification. (This exclusion shall be limited to that part of the machine
structure or work immediately effected and shall not extend to other work or property
accidentally lost or accidentally damaged in consequence thereof.)
So the policy wouldnt cover the claim made against N as it relates to defective workmanship
or specification but would potentially cover damage caused to other parts of the property in
consequence of that. But theres nothing in this section of the policy that covers Ns legal
expenses (or third party costs) in pursuing or defending a claim; this section of the policy
doesnt provide legal expenses cover. So I think QBE acted correctly in saying the legal
costs that N is liable for arent covered by its policy.
Having said that I appreciate the policy does contain a general condition which allows QBE
to take over and conduct in the name of the Insured the defence or settlement of any claim
or to prosecute in the name of the Insured for their own benefit any claim for indemnity or
damages or otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings and in
the settlement of any claim and the Insured shall give all such information and assistance as
the Insurers may reasonably require.
I dont think it would be fair in principle of QBE to utilise that clause to defend a claim and
then expect the insured to pay the costs of a decision it had taken. Nor I dont think it wouldbe fair to expect the insured to pay third party costs if QBE gave it reason to believe it would
be covering these and that led the insured to take a decision (to defend) it wouldnt
otherwise have made. And I dont I think it would be fair to expect an insured to pay costs
that were only incurred because of something QBE got wrong. Ive thought about how that
applies here.
Was it QBEs decision to defend the claim?
I think its clear N didnt believe it had carried out defective work. And, as a result, it didnt
want to accept liability for this. After the claim was made to QBE it disputed its work had
been poor and it was on that basis a denial of liability was issued. And that denial was
maintained following the response N provided to the building surveyors report that was
produced in July 2019. It was only after a further report was obtained in November 2021 that
N accepted liability should be conceded because of the unsupportive nature of that report.
So I cant conclude it was QBEs decision to defend the claim; it appears to have agreed to
this based on representations N made.
Did QBE lead N to think its legal costs would be covered?
Ive gone on to consider whether, in deciding to defend the claim, N was aware (or should
have been aware) that legal expenses, including third party legal costs, wouldnt be covered.
I think the starting point here is the policy terms. And, as Ive already found, the relevant
section doesnt include legal expenses and theres nothing in that part of the policy which
suggests these costs would be covered. So in the absence of information to the contrary I
dont think N (which was represented by a broker) could reasonably have thought these
costs would be covered.
I dont think QBE gave any different indication to N during the progression of the claim. I can
see at various points QBE made clear to N that its policy wouldnt cover defective
workmanship but would potentially cover damage. I appreciate N didnt agree with the
proposed apportionment of those claim elements but I think it was nevertheless clear it
would potentially be responsible for any parts of the claim that related to defective
workmanship.
I accept N doesnt appear to have specifically been told by QBE that it wouldnt cover legal
costs that related to defective works. But equally it didnt give any indication it would. And as
theres no cover under the policy for this I dont think thats something N could reasonably
have thought QBE would do.
Im also not persuaded N would have acted differently even if this had been made explicitly
clear to it. It didnt believe it had carried out defective work and took the decision to defend
the claim in the knowledge that, if a court found differently, it would be responsible for this
element of it. Ive not seen evidence which satisfies me it would have taken a different
decision if it had been told it would also be responsible for the legal costs associated with
this.
Did QBE make errors in its handling of the claim?
I understand in July 2019 the solicitors for the other side provided reports which alleged
failings in the work N had carried out. I dont think it was unreasonable of QBE to initially
provide that information to N for its comments. And it doesnt appear to have provided a
response until September 2019.
On the basis of the information N provided QBE agreed to continue to deny liability for the
claim. However, I havent seen there was any significant additional evidence available inrelation to this when the solicitors who were by then acting for QBE and N decided they
needed to commission their own report (which was ultimately unsupportive of Ns position).
I can see in their subsequent comments on the claim those solicitors said that, in their
professional judgement, it wasnt unreasonable of QBE to initially deny liability on the basis
of the points made by N. But once the claimant provided expert evidence it then came down
to the claimants expert vs the insureds lay witness and the court would almost certainly
favour the expert witness.
Given that I think once the claimants expert report had been disclosed (and N had
commented on it) QBE should have sought its own surveyors report (as it later did) prior to
denying liability for the claim. And it was on the basis of that later report liability was
conceded. I think if it had been obtained earlier liability would have been conceded
significantly sooner than was in fact the case.
Looking at the timelines for how long that report took to be provided once it was requested,
and taking into account it would then need to have been considered, I think its reasonable to
say that would have been by January 2020. As a result I dont think legal costs incurred after
that date are ones that N should be responsible for because they were only incurred
because QBE didnt obtain an expert report when it should have done.
Im also not satisfied QBE has evidenced how the apportionment of costs in this case (the
80:20 split) has been calculated. Its relied on the expert report (which led to the decision to
concede liability). On the basis of that report QBE thought costs should be apportioned on
the basis of 90% for the insured and 10% for the insurer (later revised to an 80:20 split).
But while that report does contain some handwritten calculations which reflect that initial split
its not clear how these have been arrived at, how they relate to the line items in the
report, what the joint costs referenced are and how these have been calculated. We asked
for further information on this from QBE but it hasnt been able to provide this to date. Most
recently its told us that it needs to retrieve relevant records and appoint a suitable handler.
However, it reached a claim decision on the basis of that report (and issued a final response
to the complaint). So I think this is information that should already have been available to it.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained Im not satisfied N should be liable for legal costs incurred
after January 2020. So I dont think QBE is entitled to pursue it for these.
Im also not satisfied that for other outstanding costs QBE has evidenced that an 80:20 split
is appropriate. Im therefore intending to direct that it appoints a claims handler to assess
this in line with the findings of the expert report (as I understand its currently doing) and
provide a revised outcome on this to N (explaining the rationale for this).
If the outcome of this process is the apportionment should operate in a way more favourable
to N then QBE will need to act in line with that.
I also think that N will have been caused inconvenience by QBEs inability to evidence its
conclusions in relation to the apportionment split and I think it should pay N £300 in
recognition of this.
Responses to my provisional decisionQBE didnt respond to my provisional decision. N made a number of points which relate to 
how the expert report (on which the apportionment of costs was based) should be 
considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate N doesnt feel the expert report has been correctly considered. And I agreed in 
my provisional decision QBE hadnt evidenced how that report led to the apportionment of 
costs to be calculated as it had. 
But I think the further comments N has made are ones QBE should take into account as part 
of the revised assessment Ive said it should carry out. So if N does have further points to 
make in relation to this it should provide these to QBE. 
In the absence of any other comments from N or QBE I dont have any reason to change the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Im not satisfied N should be liable for legal costs incurred after January 2020. So QBE isnt 
entitled to pursue it for these.
Im also not satisfied that, for other outstanding costs, QBE has evidenced that an 80:20 split
is appropriate. It will therefore need to appoint a claims handler to assess this in line with the 
findings of the expert report (taking into account any additional evidence N wants to provide). 
It will then need to provide a revised outcome on this to N explaining the rationale for its 
decision. If the outcome of this process is the apportionment should operate in a way more 
favourable to N then QBE will need to act in line with that.
I also think that N will have been caused inconvenience by QBEs inability to evidence its
conclusions in relation to the apportionment split. It will need to pay N £300 in recognition of 
this.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. QBE UK Limited will need to put things right by doing 
what Ive said in this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman