DRN-4033389
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about the level of service received from Zurich Insurance PLC 
following a claim against their property insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well-known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
A third-party vehicle caught fire outside Mrs M and Mr Ms property in early 2022. Damage 
was caused to the driveway and building. They raised a claim to Zurich roughly a month 
after the fire occurred, and Zurich accepted it, but delayed settling it. Mrs M and Mr M say 
they had a terrible time of things due to Zurichs handling of the claim, and delays caused 
debris to be walked through their property, damaging floors and carpets. They say Zurich 
should cover the costs of making good the internal damage as part of the claim. 
Zurich accept matters should have been handled better and paid Mrs M and Mr M £400 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. They didnt agree to cover the 
internal damage as part of the claim and said a new claim would need to be submitted for 
review. They also say Mrs M and Mr M ought to have taken reasonable steps to mitigate 
internal damage from occurring. Mrs M and Mr M werent happy with Zurichs response, so 
they approached our Service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She thought Zurich should 
increase the compensation to £600 in total due to the way things were handled  and the 
impact on Mrs M and Mr M. She didnt recommend Zurich replace the carpets and clean 
floors as she thought reasonable steps could have been taken to prevent this damage 
occurring after the fire. As both parties requested a decision, the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Replacement carpets and cleaning 
Mrs M and Mr M say the fire occurred directly outside their property so it was inevitable 
debris would be walked through their property. They say firemen, police, and neighbours 
entered the property shortly after the fire, and substantial water was used to put it out  
spreading debris. They also say they were diligent at first to prevent debris being walked 
through their property, but as time went on (due to Zurichs delays), damage increased. And 
they had grandchildren visit and owned a dog which caused challenges in this respect. 
Ive reviewed photos of the property which show an area of the driveway where the fire 
occurred  debris can be seen mainly in one area. Photos show other parts of the driveway 
that appear less impacted and what looks to be a separate entrance from the road leading to 
the front door. It doesnt seem  based on photos  the only way to access the property was 
through the area of driveway where the fire occurred, so Im not persuaded it was inevitable 
debris would be walked through the property and this was unavoidable. I also note Zurich 
say taking steps such as removing shoes before entering the property would have prevented 
debris being walked through which I think is reasonable. 
I accept Zurichs poor claim handling here prolonged the need for Mrs M and Mr M to 
continue to act diligently as they say they did early on to prevent debris being walked 
through their property. This would have caused some inconvenience having to take these 
steps for longer than what was required due to Zurichs claim handling. I dont, however, 
think these delays meant there was no other option available to Mrs M and Mr M but to walk 
debris through the property, or they were prevented from taking these reasonable steps due 
to the claim delays. 
I note Zurich say Mrs M and Mr M should raise a new claim if they wish for the internal 
damage to be considered. I think thats reasonable, so I wont be requiring Zurich to cover 
these costs as part of the fire claim. 
Compensation 
Mrs M and Mr M had a terrible time of things. Our investigator pointed out some of the 
failings here and its fair to say Zurich (and their agents) let them down at times. Mrs M and 
Mr M were subject to avoidable delays, were asked to collate unnecessary information, and 
experienced a lack of communication, amongst other things. As mentioned above, I think 
delays caused further inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected following a 
claim of this nature, and it ran for longer than it needed to. 
Zurich and their agents accept the level of service provided to Mrs M and Mr M was poor at 
times. To recognise this, Zurich paid them £400. But given the way things were handled  
particularly the delays caused and the lack of communication at times, Im satisfied £600 in 
total is fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. I say this because its clear Mrs M and Mr M 
had a terrible time of things overall which I think could have been avoided had the claim 
been handled better. So, Ill be directing Zurich to pay Mrs M and Mr M £600 compensation 
in total for their handling of matters, and the impact on Mrs M and Mr M. 
Summary 
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, Im not persuaded claim delays resulted in internal 
damage being caused, or its fair and reasonable to require Zurich to cover this damage as 
part of this claim. 
There were clear failings during the claim which led to it running for longer than necessary, 
and Ive no doubt this caused Mrs M and Mr M a level of distress and inconvenience. As 
such, I find £600 compensation in total to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate here, so Ill 
be directing Zurich to pay this to Mrs M and Mr M (less any compensation amounts already 
paid as part of the complaint).  
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs M and Mr M. But my decision 
ends what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with Zurich  can do for them. 
Putting things right
Zurich Insurance PLC must now pay Mrs M and Mr M £600 compensation in total for any 
distress and inconvenience caused  less any amounts for compensation already paid as 
part of the complaint.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now 
require Zurich Insurance PLC to put matters right as set out under heading Putting things 
right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman