DRN-2837106
The complaint
Ms R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard gave her incorrect 
information about a default registered against her credit card account. 
What happened
Ms R has a credit card account with Barclaycard. The account fell into arrears in 2018. A 
default was registered against the account in January 2019.
Ms R rang Barclaycard to discuss the account in July 2020. She says Barclaycard said if the 
outstanding balance was repaid in full then the default would be removed from her credit file. 
She repaid the outstanding balance in full on 9 July 2020. The account was recorded as 
settled with credit reference agencies, but the default remained.
Ms R complained to Barclaycard about this. She said it had misled her into repaying the 
balance in full. She also complained about the default having been recorded in the first 
place. She said she wasnt offered a repayment plan or any other assistance.
Barclaycard said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said when the account fell into 
arrears it had discussed things with Ms R. Because of the difficulties she was facing at that 
point with her finances it had stopped charging interest and applying charges to the account 
and agreed not to contact her regularly so as not to cause further distress. As no repayment 
was forthcoming for several months though it recorded a default. And it said it hadnt done 
anything wrong by not removing the default when Ms R had repaid the balance in full as it 
wouldnt usually do so  as the default was an accurate reflection of the account position.
Unhappy with this response Ms R asked our service to look into her complaint. She said she 
didnt think it had been investigated properly by Barclaycard as the description of her 
circumstances in 2018 that it had given in its response wasnt accurate.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Barclaycard needed to take any 
action. She felt the default had been issued correctly and that Ms R was notified of this in 
advance. She also felt Barclaycard had acted reasonably in how it handled matters at the 
time  particularly as Ms R had acknowledged she had no way of making a repayment at 
that point. She also didnt think it had made an error by declining to remove the default after 
the balance was paid. She felt the evidence showed Barclaycard had correctly informed 
Ms R this wouldnt happen, even if the balance was repaid in full, several times before 
repayment was made. So, she didnt think she could reasonably say it had made an error.
Ms R did not agree with the investigators opinion. She mentioned the incorrect information 
Barclaycard had recorded in its previous response to her as she felt this called into question 
its record keeping. And because of this she didnt agree shed been told about the default in 
advance. She also felt it was unfair that the default would not be removed as she had never 
willingly missed a payment on her account.
As Ms R didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The application of the default in January 2019
Ive seen credit card statements that show that, at the end of June 2018, there was an 
outstanding balance on Ms Rs credit card of just over £3,400. The credit limit available was 
£3,500, so the card was within its limit. From that point forward however, there were no 
successful monthly repayments to the account. A default was applied in January 2019  
after no repayments had been made to the account, meaning it was in arrears, for six 
months. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclaycard to consider the account as in 
default at that time.
Ive seen evidence that default notices were sent to Ms R and that these were addressed 
correctly. Monthly account statements also continued to be sent during that time, which set 
out that the account was not being repaid. So, on balance, I think Barclaycard provided Ms R 
sufficient notice of the actions being taken in respect of the account.
I can also see that Barclaycard put the account on hold, before it was defaulted  meaning 
that interest and charges were suspended. This appears to have been done to give Ms R 
some time to get the account back on track. And the letters sent to her, to let her know about 
this action, invited her to get in touch to discuss repayments and pointed her towards some 
debt charities that mightve been able to assist. So, I dont agree that Barclaycard was 
unwilling to consider repayment plans. It doesnt appear however that any repayments, or 
proposals, were made following those letters.
Ms R has said that some information recorded by Barclaycard about her circumstances at 
the time, which it later quoted, was incorrect. I dont know what has led to that happening, 
but Ms R has acknowledged that she had no means to make repayment at the time. So 
broadly, the position recorded  that she couldnt repay the balance  was right, even if 
some of the individual circumstances were not. And overall therefore, I dont think 
Barclaycard has done anything wrong with its handling of the account in 2018 or by 
registering a default in respect of it due to non-payment.
The default not being removed following repayment
Ms R says Barclaycard told her that if she repaid the outstanding balance in full then the 
default would be removed from her credit file. She says she was told this over the phone 
when making repayment. She also says that a mortgage adviser from Barclays, said the 
same thing. Ive seen evidence that she had an appointment scheduled with a Barclays 
mortgage adviser on 9 July 2020. And her repayment was made to her Barclaycard the 
same day.
Barclaycard has said it wouldnt remove the default just because the balance is repaid in full. 
And indeed, I know that this is not standard industry practice. A default will usually remain 
recorded for the full six years applicable, even after repayment has been made. The record 
will usually be updated to show the balance as having been repaid in full, but the default 
itself will not generally be removed  which is what has happened here. So, it appears 
Barclaycard has acted correctly in terms of how the account is being reported following the 
full repayment.
As Ive said, Ms R says she was misled about this. Even if Barclaycard had incorrectly said 
to Ms R that the default would be removed, I dont think I could reasonably require it to do this. That is because the default is an accurate reflection of the account conduct. And if a 
business provides incorrect information, we wouldnt generally require it to make that 
incorrect information true, by putting someone in a position they were never entitled to be in.
In any event though, I dont think there is enough evidence for me to say, on balance, that 
Barclaycard misled Ms R before she repaid the debt. Recordings of the conversations 
between Ms R and Barclaycard on 9 July 2020 are not available. Ms R has said she is 
unhappy with this and I agree it wouldve been helpful if these were available. But 
businesses are not required to retain records indefinitely and can set their own policies 
around this. In the absence of those recordings however Ive looked at the system notes 
Barclaycard has relating to the contact it has had with Ms R. 
Ms R says that she was told on 9 July 2020 that if she repaid in full the default would be 
removed. But Barclaycards notes, of her conversations with its specialist collections and 
recoveries support team, show that on 16 June 2020 she called to discuss the account and 
was told that the default would not be removed as it had been recorded correctly. There are 
then further notes showing a conversation around a repayment plan on 2 July 2020, as Ms R 
was looking to purchase a house, but the default was proving prohibitive. These notes also 
show that Barclaycard said the default would still show even after the balance was repaid in 
full. Following this a letter was sent to Ms R, on the same day, with a form to fill in to 
complete an affordability assessment for a repayment plan. This letter was addressed 
correctly. The notes then show that Ms R called and repaid the balance in full on the 
morning of 9 July 2020 and then called again two hours later to say she was unhappy with 
the default.
I think these records are likely an accurate reflection of the conversations that took place  
as the calls were with the dedicated support team that would be familiar with Barclaycards 
processes. And based on these I think Barclaycard was clear, before any payment was 
made, that the default would not be removed, even if the balance was repaid in full  which 
is again in line with standard industry practice. Ms R then chose to repay the balance and 
dispute the fairness of the default. But I dont think I can reasonably say, on balance, that 
Barclaycard gave her incorrect information about this before she made the payment. So, I 
dont think it needs to remove the default or take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman