DRN-2865962
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident withdrew her unemployment cover.
What happened
Ms D took insurance cover in 2003 alongside a mortgage for her property. This was an 
advised sale by an independent financial adviser. However, Ms D has brought this complaint 
against the insurer and so Im only considering Royal Londons role, which there was no 
involvement in the sales process. 
Ms D received notification about the unemployment benefit being withdrawn in March 2020. 
She said that it wasnt made clear that this could happen and that shed been relying on this 
element of cover in particular as she felt it was the most valuable insurance she had. She 
didnt think it fair that this could be withdrawn as cover was supposed to be in place until 
2028. She said that had she known this wasnt the case then she wouldnt have taken the 
policy. Ms D would like a full refund of the premiums she paid. 
Royal London said it withdrew cover because the underwriter had withdrawn from the 
insurance market. It said the possibility of this happening was highlighted within the policy 
terms and that, regrettably, it had to withdraw cover. Royal London said it attempted to find 
another underwriter to effectively take over the responsibility of unemployment cover and 
that it was unsuccessful. As a goodwill gesture, Royal London offered to extend the period of 
cover to include successful claims brought throughout the remainder of 2020 by effectively 
stepping into the shoes of the underwriter during that time. 
Ms D was unfortunately made redundant in April 2021 and so was unable to bring her claim 
as it fell outside of that window. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. He said that Royal London hadnt done 
anything wrong by withdrawing her unemployment cover. He highlighted that the terms said 
it must give 90 days notice of this happening, which it did in March 2020 and that it 
continued to provide cover beyond its liability until the end of 2020. He also declined to 
endorse her request for a refund of premiums because the insurer had effectively been on 
cover since 2003  meaning that had she raised a successful unemployment claim during 
that time, then cover would have ensued. 
Ms D disagreed. In summary she said the product was of no value to her and that had she 
known it could be cancelled at any time then she wouldnt have taken it. She also said that 
the annual letters sent were mis-leading because she was led to believe the policy would be 
in place until 2028. And so, its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. Im not persuaded that Royal London has made 
a mistake by withdrawing the unemployment benefit. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
The benefit is underwritten by the insurance provider. If the insurance provider
ceases to offer this benefit or is changed by us, we can withdraw or change the policy
provisions and the policy benefit schedule for this benefit in such manner as we deem
appropriate in the circumstances. We will give 30 days written notice to the owner at the
last known address of a change to any of the benefit terms and conditions or if the
benefit is to be underwritten by another company. We will give 90 days written notice if
the benefit is to be withdrawn. In any case there will be a minimum period of 180 days
between any changes being made to the terms and conditions of this benefit and any 
subsequent changes
And so, Ive carefully considered the actions taken by Royal London in these circumstances. 
The unemployment benefit was underwritten by another insurer. Unfortunately, this insurer, 
following the advice of its regulator, had to withdraw cover. It notified Royal London of its 
decision in March 2020 and this was explained to Ms D at that time. The policy terms permit 
this to happen, along with other changes to the contract of insurance, provided the 
timeframe of notification is adhered to. Im satisfied that Royal London has acted within the 
scope of its policy terms because it gave the correct notification within the allotted timeframe. 
I take on board Ms Ds comments about this not being made clear when she took out the 
policy, but that wasnt Royal Londons responsibility to personally notify her that could 
happen. I should also highlight that Royal London didnt sell her the policy and so theres 
little input I can have on that argument as this complaint is against the insurer rather than the 
broker. 
However, Im satisfied this was made clear within the policy terms for the reasons Ive 
explained. I also disagree that the policy was of no value to her simply because this 
happened. I say that because had Ms D made a successful claim during the period that 
cover was available, then it would have performed as expected and provided benefit, should 
she have met the criteria outlined in the terms. 
Its unfortunate that Ms D was made redundant outside of the period of cover. But I also 
noted that Royal London extended the period of cover until the end of 2020 which was 
beyond what would have been expected. And so, I couldnt reasonably conclude that it did 
anything wrong here either. 
I understand Ms Ds arguments about the policy term being mis-leading because the 
paperwork she received said cover would be in place until 2028. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, the policy terms permit the insurer to make changes to the policy, including 
withdrawal of cover, provided ample notice is given. This is a relatively standard term within 
insurance and so I dont think Royal London mis-led her on that point either. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 Scott Slade
Ombudsman