DRN-3111845
The complaint
Mr S complained that Vanquis Bank Limited acted irresponsibly when they agreed to provide 
him with a credit card to use for gambling purposes. He also believes they made other errors 
during his dealings with them.
What happened
Mr S made an online application to Vanquis for a credit card in March 2016. Vanquis 
reviewed and agreed his application and offered a credit card with an initial limit of £250.
Upon receipt of his card, Mr S immediately used it for various transactions and cash 
withdrawals which led to his account balance exceeding the limit agreed. Mr S made 
payments to the account to adjust the excess position.
In July 2016, Mr S exceeded the available limit on his account again. Although he again 
made a payment to adjust this, the account balance on his monthly statement remained 
above the limit agreed. Vanquis charged interest on the amount he owed and also charges 
where his limit was exceeded, and payments were late or missed.
Having received no payments for three months, Vanquis then sent Mr S a Notice of Sums in 
Arrears (NOSIA) detailing the arrears and the consequences of non-payment. They also 
issued a default notice to Mr S. Vanquis agreed to refund some fees as a gesture of 
goodwill, so Mr S made a further payment in November 2016.
No further payments were made after November 2016, so Vanquis issued a further default 
notice in March 2017. With no further payments received, Vanquis referred Mr Ss account to 
a debt recovery agent. The debt was ultimately sold to a third party in July 2017 when 
Vanquis also recorded a default on Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S contacted Vanquis in early 2020 to complain. He wanted them to remove the default 
from his credit file. He thought the default notice hadnt been issued correctly. He said hed 
told Vanquis that he intended to use the card to fund gambling to help repay his debts. He 
also said there were existing defaults and a CCJ on his credit file at the time Vanquis lent to 
him. He thought Vanquis had acted irresponsibly when they agreed to lend.
Vanquis didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly. They said that no adverse information had 
been reported at the time of Mr Ss application. Vanquis did agree they shouldve recorded 
the default sooner. So, they said they would amend his credit file to bring this forward to 
March 2017, rather than July 2017. 
At the time of Vanquiss response, Mr S submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR) to them. 
When the information wasnt received, Mr S contacted Vanquis again to chase matters. He 
also didnt agree with his complaint outcome. He wanted the default removing from his credit 
file and offered to repay the principal debt owed if Vanquis agreed.
Vanquis considered Mr Ss complaint further and wrote to him in March 2020. They 
apologised they hadnt included a copy of the default notice issued in March 2017 with their 
original response. They wrote to Mr S again in May 2020. They acknowledged that another 
credit reference agency did have a record of prior defaults which they werent aware of. But 
they said this wouldnt have impacted upon their agreement to lend at the time.
Vanquis said they could find no record of Mr S telling them about his intention to use the 
card for gambling. They accepted there had been gambling transactions, but said they made 
no error allowing these. 
They went on to apologise that the default date had still not been amended on Mr Ss credit 
file and this would be rectified. They also addressed Mr Ss claim that hed never been sent 
a default notice. Mr S had moved address and Vanquis had no record of being officially 
informed of this. Finally, they apologised that Mr Ss SAR hadnt been raised sooner. 
Vanquis offered compensation of £200 for the default date change and SAR delays.
Mr S was still unhappy with Vanquiss response to his complaint. So, he referred matters to 
this service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaints with Vanquis. In doing 
so, she didnt agree Vanquis had acted irresponsibly or that they should remove the default 
recorded. She didnt think Vanquis needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. He requested that his complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S insists that he was called by Vanquis prior to completing his application. He said he told 
Vanquis that he had various debts and, if agreed, he intended to use his card to gamble in 
an attempt to repay those debts. So, if Vanquis were indeed told this, I wouldve expected 
them to question further before proceeding with any application.
Mr S hasnt been able to provide specific dates and times for this call. So, our investigator 
asked Vanquis to provide any recordings they hold relating to Mr Ss application in early 
2016. The only call found was from 26 March 2016. Vanquis called Mr S to go through 
various details from his online application. Ive listened to this call but didnt hear Mr S inform 
Vanquis of his gambling intentions at any time. He confirmed his annual income as £24,000 
potentially rising to £30,000 with bonuses. He also confirmed he had access to additional 
household income taking the total figure to £60,000.
The rules and guidelines relating to the assessment of credit applications are set down in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). In particular, 
CONC 5.2A.
From this, its important to establish whether Vanquis completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mr S would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way. Vanquis have provided confirmation and evidence to confirm the 
information provided and considered for Mr Ss application. They also used their own scoring 
assessment processes together with information provided by a credit reference agency. 
Having seen that information, I can see no evidence of prior difficulties reported in March 
2016. 
Vanquis have since confirmed that two defaults pre-dating Mr Ss application are reported by 
another credit reference agency. This is not uncommon as there is no requirement for 
lenders to report credit data to all of the credit reference agencies. Further, theres no 
obligation for a lender to check all of the credit reference agencies. Only that their checks 
are reasonable and proportionate given the circumstances.
There were two defaults reported  one in July 2014 and the other in April 2015. So, the last 
default, prior to Mr Ss application was almost 12 months previous. Vanquis say that as a 
second chance lender, if adverse data is reported, this wouldnt automatically lead to them 
declining an application. This is their choice and, as a business decision, is not one this 
service would choose to question. But they should ensure they comply with the assessment 
rules and guidance in CONC 5.2A.Mr S has provided evidence of a CCJ recorded at a credit reference agency. But I notice this 
postdates his application to Vanquis. Mr S believes he provided details of the wrong CCJ 
and offered to provide the correct one. But this hasnt been received and Ive not seen 
anything to show there was a CCJ in existence before then.
CONC 5.2A refers to any checks being proportionate based upon various factors. In 
particular, the type, amount and duration of any credit together with the level and frequency 
of repayments and any associated costs and charges. Vanquis agreed an initial limit of 
£250. Given Mr Ss stated available income and the information from the credit reference 
agency, I believe Vanquiss checks were proportionate in Mr Ss case. I also believe their 
decision to lend was a fair one here, given the limit agreed and Mr Ss available income.
Vanquis have acknowledged that there were gambling transactions seen on Mr Ss account. 
Having reviewed his statements, Ive seen two transactions on 2 and 16 April 2016. There 
were also several cash withdrawals. That said, I dont believe these, in isolation would be 
enough to suggest to Vanquis there was a larger problem. In any event, these occurred after 
the card and limit were agreed.
Mr S complained on many occasions about charges and interest applied to his debt. Ive 
reviewed all the charges and interest detailed on Mr Ss statements. I believe theyve all 
been applied in accordance with Vanquiss credit agreement and terms and conditions. In 
fact, I notice that Vanquis did refund four default charges as a gesture of goodwill. 
While I realise that Mr S may disagree, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Vanquis 
did, at any time, act irresponsibly in agreeing to lend to Mr S based upon the information 
available to them. Im content they conformed with CONC 5.2A given all the circumstances 
here. Further, Mr S did borrow money using his Vanquis card and he did stop making 
payments. This means that he did default on his agreement with Vanquis. So, I realise Mr S 
will be disappointed, but I believe the default was recorded correctly as a fair reflection of 
what actually happened.
Mr S said he didnt receive Vanquiss default notice. I can see this was sent to the address 
that Vanquis held for him at the time. I havent seen anything that shows Mr S told Vanquis, 
in an acceptable format, hed changed address. So, I cant reasonably hold Vanquis liable 
here. I also think that other letters, statements together with Vanquiss terms and conditions 
were clear on what constitutes a default. So, I dont believe Vanquiss actions shouldve 
been unexpected.
Vanquis agreed to bring forward the date of the default from July 2017 to March 2017  
when they issued their default notice. This seems fair in these circumstances. I understand 
there were some delays in resolving this which Vanquis have apologised for. I also 
understand there was a delay in fulfilling the SAR when Mr S requested it. Vanquis have 
apologised for this also. They offered compensation of £200 to Mr S for these mistakes. I 
think this feels very fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr S has been pursuing his complaints with Vanquis for some time. I also 
understand that he may well not agree with my findings. I would like to reassure him that I 
have considered everything that both he and Vanquis have provided together with the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation that applies in these circumstances. But I wont be 
upholding his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is Vanquis Bank Limited should pay Mr S the compensation theyve offered 
of £200 (unless they have already done so). But for the reasons Ive given, I dont require 
them to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman