DRN-3360726
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement with 
VWFS.
Mr A experienced a rattling noise coming from the dashboard and multimedia screen. The 
car was returned to the dealership several times, but the issue hasnt been rectified.
Mr A complained to VWFS and asked for a replacement car. VWFS acknowledged that there 
was a fault with the car. It said it was unable to replace the car but offered Mr A to end the 
agreement early. It said it would make a proportionate refund of Mr As initial rental payment 
of (1,434.14) and a one-off compensatory payment of £652.76. VWFS said that in the 
alternative, Mr A could choose to retain the car and arrange repairs with an approved retailer 
and that it would offer a one-off payment of £979.14.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response or the options offered and brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that there was a fault, 
and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. He said that based on what 
hed seen, attempts to repair the fault had been exhausted and so it was unlikely that further 
attempts would resolve things. The investigator didnt think it was reasonable to ask VWFS 
to arrange for repairs. The investigator said he understood that Mr A wanted a replacement 
car but said that VWFS, as a finance provider, didnt have the ability to supply cars. The 
investigator said that in the circumstances, VWFSs offer to end the agreement and refund a 
proportion of the initial rental payment was fair. The investigator also said that VWFSs offer 
of a one-off payment of £652.76 was a reasonable amount to compensate Mr A for the 
inconvenience of not being able to use the car, as well as any loss of enjoyment hed 
suffered.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he didnt think the fault had been investigated properly and as a 
consequence, didnt think that repairs had been exhausted. Mr A said that if he ended the 
agreement, hed be left without a car and would have to commute to work by taxi. Mr A didnt 
agree with receiving a proportion of his initial rental payment and said he wanted a full 
refund of his initial rental of £1,958.28 plus a one of payment of £979.14 plus 6 months to 
find a replacement car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality of they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Id expect a brand new car to be of a very 
high standard and to be free from minor defects for a reasonable period of time.
Theres no dispute that the car has a fault which makes it of unsatisfactory quality. VWFS 
has accepted this and has offered to end the agreement early and take back the car. So, I 
wont go into detail about the quality of the car. Instead, Ill focus on what I think is a fair and 
reasonable resolution.
Repair
I can see that the car has been returned to the dealership several times. Attempts at repair 
havent been successful. Mr A has questioned whether the dealership has looked at the fault 
properly. Ive reviewed the job sheets and the last one states that everything possible has 
been tried to reduce the noise, and that there are no further repairs to carry out. My 
interpretation of this is that the dealership has exhausted attempts at repair. I dont think it 
would be reasonable to ask VWFS to attempt further repairs.
Replacement
Mr A has said that he wants a replacement car. VWFS has explained that it is a finance 
provider and doesnt have the ability to supply cars, so it isnt able to provide a replacement. 
I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask VWFS to do something it isnt able to do.
Refund
VWFS has offered to end the agreement early and take back the car. It has offered a 
proportionate refund of Mr As initial rental payment of £1,434.14. Mr A has said that he 
thinks he should receive a full refund of his initial rental payment.
Mr A has been able to use the car despite the fault. The initial rental payment determines the 
cost of monthly payments, so Mr A has benefitted from the initial rental payment on a month 
by month basis. If all of the initial rental payment was refunded, Mr A would effectively be in 
a position of double recovery became hes paid lower monthly payments. Because of this, I 
dont think its fair to ask VWFS to refund 100% of the initial rental payment. I think its 
reasonable that the rental payment is refunded on a proportionate basis, taking into account 
the length of time Mr A has had the car.
Loss of use and loss of enjoyment
Mr A has explained that he was unable to use the car whilst it was with the dealership for 
repairs. Hes said that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car on the first two occasions that 
repairs were attempted, which meant that he was without a car for around 6 days. Mr A has 
said that he had to use taxis to get to work at a cost to him of around £40 per day.
Mr A has otherwise been able to use the car despite the fault but has explained that the 
rattling noise caused a loss of enjoyment. 
VWFS has offered a one off compensatory payment of £652.76 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr A. Taking everything into account, I think this sum is fair 
and reasonable, and that it adequately compensates Mr A for the out of pocket costs hes 
incurred when he was without use of the car, plus an amount for loss of enjoyment  and 
distress and inconvenience which is in line with what this service would award. So, I wont be 
asking VWFS to pay further compensation.Mr A has expressed concern that he will be left without a car once he has handed this car 
back. I cant disagree with that, but Mr A will receive a proportionate refund of his initial 
rental payment plus compensation which he could use towards a new contract hire 
agreement, or other type of agreement. I havent seen anything to cause me to think that Mr 
A would be without a car for 6 months as he has suggested.
Taking everything into account, and for the reasons Ive explained, I think the offer made by 
VWFS is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman