DRN-4197886
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to support him with an 
appropriate plan to clear his overdraft. He wants the interest on his overdraft frozen and a 
repayment plan put in place. 
What happened
Mr W complained to Lloyds about the support it offered him to clear his £4,500 overdraft and 
the length of time he spent trying to put a repayment plan in place. Lloyds accepted that the 
service it provided couldve been better and paid Mr W £25. But didnt uphold his complaint 
regarding the support offered to him in repaying his overdraft. 
It says when Mr W contacted it, Lloyds went through Mr Ws incomings and outgoings and 
determined it was only able to offer him a one month plan to bring his account back into the 
agreed overdraft limit or account closure. Mr W was unhappy with both these options as the 
account closure would adversely affect his credit file and he didnt want to continue to pay 
overdraft charges whilst trying to pay his overdraft off.
So Mr W brought his complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws 
concerns and thought that Lloyds shouldve realised that Mr W was in financial difficulty and 
refunded the overdraft charges applied to the account from September 2018 because they 
thought Mr W statements showed he was unable to see or maintain a credit balance on his 
account. 
Lloyds disagreed  mainly because it says large credits were made into the account 
regularly which on occasion exceeded the overdraft limit and that large credits were 
transferred out to another bank account which couldve been used to reduce the fees on the 
account, or the outstanding balance of the overdraft. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 18 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision and neither Lloyds or Mr W have added any new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Part of Mr Ws complaint is about the proportionality of the charges applied to his account  
he would like these frozen to allow him to pay off his overdraft. But before I go any further, I 
want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts Lloyds 
charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs 
of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr W fairly and 
reasonably. And overall, I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr W unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say this because having a detailed look at Mr Ws statements they present a somewhat 
chaotic picture and I dont think it can be said from the statements alone that it was clear Mr 
W was in financial difficulty prior to him getting in touch with it, rather than a mismanagement 
of his financial affairs. 
Although Mr W spent the majority of time overdrawn, I can also see there were regular and 
sometimes large cash transfers in which bought the overdraft right down and sometimes 
paid it off. And then there would be transfers out  some of which were clearly to pay bills 
and credit cards, while others - and Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over his expenditure - are significant and at times large amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions such as payments towards hotels, gyms and retail 
outfits and leisure. And throughout the period looked at (July 2016 to 2022) there were large 
transfers to what appears to be a savings account. 
While this may not at times been enough to pay off his overdraft in full, this and cutting back 
on other non-committed transactions, I think, wouldve been certainly enough to bring it 
down and pay it off within a reasonable time should he have chosen to do so.
So although it is clear Mr W is using his overdraft, given the transactions on the statements, I 
dont think there is enough on them which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any potential 
financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong and I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light 
of how Mr Ws account was being used. 
And when Mr W did get in touch with Lloyds regarding the overdraft charges applied to his 
account, I think the help and support Lloyds was offered was fair in the circumstances.
Lloyds contact notes record that prior to raising his complaint that:
In December 2017 Mr W was taken through his income and expenditure and offered 
a refinance loan, but that Mr W didnt take up the offer as he felt the charges were 
too high. At the same time Mr W was given a refund of £100.
In January 2018 Mr W wasnt claiming to be in financial difficulty, but wanted the 
charges stopped on his overdraft. Again, he was offered a loan but didnt uptake the 
offer.  
In September 2021 Mr W contacts Lloyds regarding financial difficulties due to a 
marital split and reduced income. At this time Lloyds gives him a temporary plan for 
three months and asks him to contact it if further assistance is required after this. A 
further refund of £100 is given.
All of which is in line with what Id expect. And then when Mr W contacted Lloyds again 
regarding the repayment of his overdraft in July 2022 and raises his complaint, I can see that 
Lloyds went through Mr Ws income and expenditure and determined he had around £300 a month surplus in funds and savings of £25k which he planned to use as a deposit on a 
house. 
Based on this information Lloyds determined Mr W wasnt in financial difficulty but offered 
him a one month plan to repay the £3.99 that he was over his arranged overdraft limit. 
Alternatively, Mr W could close his account if he felt he needed long term support and all 
interest and charges would then be frozen while he paid back the outstanding balance, but 
that this may affect his credit file. And in Mr Ws circumstances, I think the options provided 
were fair and reasonable. 
 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr W unfairly 
or unreasonably and this means that Im currently not minded to uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope he understands the 
reasons for my decision.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman