DRN-3963865
The complaint
Mr L complained about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill UKI handled his 
claim under his motor insurance policy and left him driving without insurance. 
What happened
Mr Ls car was damaged in an accident and UKI decided that it was uneconomical to repair. 
They paid him its market value in settlement of his claim. 
Mr L was unhappy that UKI then terminated his insurance without telling him, as hed kept 
his car and was still driving it. If he had been found driving without insurance, it would have 
been very serious, and he didnt feel that UKIs compensation reflected that. He was also 
unhappy with UKIs delays and poor communication, with their valuation process, and with 
what he felt was their failure to offer him a suitable courtesy car and to give him the correct 
premium refund. 
 
UKI accepted their communication was poor, they hadnt met the timescales they should 
have, and that they hadnt warned him about terminating his insurance. They offered him 
compensation of £350 overall. But UKI said that he was only entitled to a basic courtesy car 
and not a like for like one with his own car, and he wasnt due a premium refund. 
The investigator partly upheld the complaint because he thought they hadnt treated Mr L 
fairly in some but not all of these issues. He thought UKI should increase their compensation 
to £500. Mr L didnt agree with the recommended compensation and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepted that after Mr L reported his claim, UKI didnt call him back as they said they 
would, and this caused delay at the start of his claim.
Valuation process
Mr L wasnt happy that hed been given one settlement offer for his cars market value at 
first, and then UKI later increased it, both without inspecting his car first. But UKI have 
explained that they were waiting for photos of his car from Mr Ls garage first, and I can see 
from UKIs file that they had tried to contact his garage several times for these photos earlier 
but hadnt received a response. So I dont think that UKI were at fault for that. And even if 
this did delay the final settlement offer that Mr L agreed, I dont think that delay was 
unreasonable overall. We dont think its essential for an insurer to do a physical inspection 
of a car if it has garage photos, so it wasnt unreasonable for UKIs engineers to assess the 
car that way. 
Courtesy Car
Mr L said UKI offered him only a small hatchback type courtesy car, rather than one like for 
like with his own car. It had heated seats which he said eased his health symptoms, and so 
he declined this. But he found out later that he could have had a better car. 
Its not clear why he thought that. Its possible that a better car was available under a credit 
hire option that Mr L was offered but didnt accept. But what matters is what Mr Ls policy 
entitles him to. Page fourteen says that a courtesy car will be a small hatchback and may not 
be of a similar size or style as his car. Like for like was an optional extra but not one hed 
paid for. 
In any event, as UKI had told him, and as the policy confirms at page eight, a courtesy car 
would only be available while his car was being repaired . But his car wasnt repaired 
because UKI decided that it wasnt repairable and declared it a total loss. So he wasnt 
entitled to a hire car at all in those circumstances. 
Premium refund
UKI thought he had been charged twice for protected no claims bonus, but UKI said 
otherwise and thought that no premium refund was due. The investigator has looked into this 
and considered that the only refund due to Mr L is for the period of when he was without 
insurance. He has calculated from Cs policy documents that represented £11.38 and I 
understand that UKI had now paid that to Mr L. 
Driving without insurance
Mr L said that UKIs engineer offered him a settlement amount, but he rejected it.  He was 
waiting to hear from another UKI engineer when he received a cheque from UKI for that 
amount, and a call from a salvage company about them taking his car away. He told UKI he 
had rejected it and wanted to keep his car. 
So he was unhappy when he then received a letter from UKI, dated about a week earlier, 
saying theyd terminated his insurance. This meant hed driven without insurance during that 
time. 
Although UKI did later reinstate his insurance, in the meantime Mr L had to walk or use 
public transport to get to work. Both were inconvenient for him because he said he had knee 
arthritis and found walking painful and because public transport was not as available around 
his working hours. I see from their file that UKI did offer Mr L a hire car until they could 
reinstate his insurance, and its noted that he didnt want to accept that, but not why. But I 
think it understandable that by this stage Mr Ls main focus was on being able to keep 
driving his own car, which was better for him due to his health issues.  
UKI said that they had terminated his insurance because they had settled his total loss claim 
by paying him its market value. Thats normal insurance practice and we dont think its 
unreasonable, even if Mr L doesnt agree the settlement amount, as by paying the interim 
settlement they discharged their liability under the policy. 
But Mr L didnt know that, and UKI hadnt warned him that his insurance would terminate. As 
far as he knew, he was still negotiating with them about the settlement and wanted to keep 
his car until hed agreed that. UKI knew that he had kept his car, as he was entitled to do 
with their agreement. He was still driving it and I think UKI should have considered that.  So I think it was unreasonable for them not to warn Mr L that his insurance would terminate on 
settlement, and I think they should compensate him for that. 
Mr L thinks that the overall level of compensation of £350 offered for this and the other 
mistakes UKI accepted doesnt reflect the gravity of what UKI did, and that hed received 
more compensation from another insurance claim for something less important. But as the 
@ explained, we can only look at this complaint.  
I can see why he thinks that UKI should be punished for causing him to drive uninsured. But 
as the @ has explained, its not our role to punish or fine businesses as we don't monitor or 
regulate them. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Instead we look at individual complaints and decide whether a business has acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
I can also understand Mr Ls shock to discover that he had been driving without insurance, 
as there are potentially very serious consequences of that if he had been stopped by the 
police or been in an accident. Its very fortunate that these things didnt happen. 
Nevertheless, they didnt, and I cant require UKI to compensate him for them as if they did.  
However I do think that UKI should have done more earlier to ensure that Mr L was still 
insured. Taking into account the above effect on Mr L of not being able to use his car, I dont 
think the £350 compensation was enough, and I do think that £500 better reflects the 
inconvenience he experienced. So I think that UKI should pay him £500 in total.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Churchill to do the following :
Pay Mr L £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions have 
caused him. This is less any compensation amount which UKI have already paid him 
and which he has accepted.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr L 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this the must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
