The complaint
Ms J complains about the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered her for a claim she 
made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Ms J lost an earring while in a museum. She says she took the other earring 
out and put it in her purse for safe-keeping. She intended to take a picture of the remaining 
earring to send to the museum to see if it could find it. Unfortunately, Ms J lost the other 
earring later that day, although she isnt sure where.
Ms J got in touch with AXA to make a claim for the earrings. AXA accepted the claim and 
appointed its jewellery supplier to deal with it. AXA told Ms J that it would deduct two policy 
excesses from the settlement  a total of £500. It said it couldnt offer Ms J a cash settlement 
because the cash amount would fall below the excess. Ms J wasnt happy with AXAs 
position, so she complained. She pointed out that the retail price of the earrings had gone up 
by around £200.
Ultimately, AXA agreed to record Ms Js losses as one claim on the external claims 
database used by the insurance industry. It also agreed to increase the amount its 
settlement was based on to the new retail price of £899. 
But AXA maintained its decision to deduct two excesses from the settlement amount. Thats 
because it said the loss of the earrings were two separate events in two separate locations. 
It felt the chain of events had been broken. And it also said any cash settlement would be 
limited to what it would cost its suppliers to replace the earrings, rather than the retail price. 
So, it offered Ms J cash settlement of around £111 (the cost of replacement less the supplier 
discount minus the double excess) or a jewellery voucher for £899 once Ms J had paid the 
policy excess.
Ms J remained unhappy with AXAs offer. She asked us to look into her complaint. In 
particular, she was unhappy that two excesses were being applied; that AXA had limited 
cash settlement to what it was cost its own supplier to replace the earrings; and that it 
required the excess to be paid before it would issue a voucher.
Our investigator thought Ms Js complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged the policy 
terms allowed AXA to limit cash settlements to what it would cost it to replace an item using 
its own suppliers. And she felt it was reasonable for AXA to require excesses to be paid 
before it provided vouchers. But she didnt think it was fair for AXA to deduct two excesses 
from the settlement. Thats because she felt the earrings should be treated as one item and 
one event. She also thought AXA would always have had to replace a pair of earrings, so 
the deduction of one excess rather than two wouldnt have prejudiced its position.
DRN-1703706AXA disagreed. It felt the investigators view had been based on the fact that it wouldve 
needed to replace a pair. But it argued that in this case, its supplier had said that if the 
second earring hadnt been lost, it wouldve likely made a replacement for it. So, it felt, given 
the value of the earrings, that it wouldve been economical for a replacement to be made. 
The earrings werent unique or bespoke. It said that it isnt unusual to apply two excesses to 
one claim where theres been a clear break in the chain of events. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think AXA has 
treated Ms J fairly. Ill explain why.
First, I should make it clear that the deduction of an excess from a claim payment; or 
requiring a policyholder to pay an excess before their claim is settled is standard across the 
insurance industry. An excess is the uninsured first part of a claim thats met by the 
policyholder. In this case, I can see from Ms Js policy schedule that her claim excess is 
£250. So, I think it was fair for AXA to require Ms J to pay her excess before any jewellery 
voucher was issued to her.
The policy terms also explain how AXA settles claims. The policy says:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot repair or 
replace the property, we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternatives 
(including vouchers and/or store cards). Where we can offer repair or replacement through 
an approved supplier, but we agree to pay cash or a cash alternative settlement, then 
payment will not exceed what we would have paid the preferred supplier.
I think the policy terms make it clear that if AXA chooses to offer a cash settlement, its 
reasonably entitled to limit what it pays out to what it wouldve cost it to get the items 
replaced through its own supplier. I think its entitled to make use of supplier discounts that 
arent available to retail customers. So, if Ms J does opt to take up a cash settlement, I think 
AXA can fairly limit this amount to the actual cost to it of replacing the earrings.
I was also pleased to see that AXA had amended its records (and external records) to only 
show one claim rather than two. 
But, like the investigator, I dont think its fair for AXA to apply two excesses to this claim. I 
appreciate that the losses likely happened in different places at different times. But Im not 
persuaded that there was a break in the chain of events. Ms J says she took out the second 
earring when the first was lost, with the aim of photographing it later on and sending a 
picture to the museum to try to find it. So, it seems to me that she was trying to mitigate her 
loss as far as possible. 
If Ms J hadnt lost the first earring, she wouldnt have removed the second one and it seems 
unlikely that shed have gone on to lose it. This means then that I think theres a direct link 
between the loss of the first earring and the second. And that the two losses are part of the 
same event. I dont think there has been a break in the chain of events.
I accept that had Ms J only lost the first earring, its possible that its supplier mightve been 
able to make a replacement earring. But that isnt whats happened here. Once the second 
earring was lost, AXA became liable for settling the cost of a pair of earrings. As a pair of 
earrings is one item and I think theres no break in the chain of events, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of this complaint is for AXA to treat the earrings as one item and apply only one excess. I also think that given Ms J was attempting 
to mitigate her losses, it isnt fair to effectively penalise her for the fact the failure to do so 
failed.
Overall, its open to Ms J to choose which method of settlement shed prefer. If she chooses 
cash settlement, AXA must pay her the cost to its supplier of replacing the earrings less one 
excess of £250. If Ms J chooses to accept the jewellery voucher for £899, shell need to first 
pay one excess of £250. Ms J will need to get in touch with AXA to let it know which option 
she wants to take up.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Js complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to apply only one excess of £250 to this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman