DRN-1819423
The complaint
Ms R complains Metro Bank PLC took a photograph of her without her consent whilst she 
was in a branch.  She says this has left her feeling oppressed and victimised.
What happened
In July 2018 Ms R opened an account with Metro in branch.  It appears that during that 
process, a photo was taken of Ms R  she says without her consent.  Ms R discovered this 
when she did a Subject Access Request asking Metro for details of information it held on 
her.
When Ms R complained about the photo being held, Metro did not uphold her complaint and 
so she asked this service to look into matters for her.
Metro told us it was their usual policy to ask new customers whether they agreed to having a 
photo taken.  It says it helps to identify customers when they visit the branch  and it 
explains this to customers at the time.  If, subsequently, a customer chooses to have that 
image deleted, they can make that request too.
Ms R told us she wasnt asked for her consent  and the fact that she is shown to be sitting 
slouched, with her head in her hands is proof of this.  She says she would never have posed 
for a photo like that.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask Metro to do anymore so Ms R asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Metro dealt with Ms Rs complaint fairly and if it didnt, what I 
think should be done to rectify that.  In relation to the obtaining and holding of the 
information, Ms R has been directed to the ICO office as this is outside of this services 
jurisdiction.
Ive considered what both sides have to say - and I cant see anything to suggest Metro has 
behaved unfairly or unreasonably.  It seems to me that the taking of the photo is consistent 
with its procedures in opening accounts - and I cant see that this was done with a view to 
making Ms R feel victimised or oppressed.  I certainly have seen nothing to suggest  and 
Ms R does not submit - Metro has treated her any differently.
So, it follows that if I find it has done nothing wrong here, I wont be asking that it sends a 
letter of apology or pays Ms R £500 as she suggests.  The other aspects of Ms R complaint 
fall outside the remit of this service so I will make no further comment on those.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman