DRN-2937807
The complaint
Mr C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined his claim on his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy with Ageas to cover a property he owns and rents out. In 
September 2020 the tenant reported that the ceiling in one of the bedrooms had collapsed 
following damage to the roof of the building. Mr C made a claim on the insurance for storm 
damage. He provided a report from a contractor saying the damage had been caused by 
storm conditions at the time. 
On receipt of the report Ageas sent out its own contractor to inspect the damage. After this it 
contacted Mr C and told him it was declining his claim. It said that there hadnt been storm 
conditions at the time of the damage. And its contractor had confirmed that the damage was 
caused due to wear and tear which is excluded under the policy. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said the conditions at the time did amount to a storm. And he said he 
maintained the roof well, so didnt agree the damage would be caused by wear and tear. He 
made a complaint.
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint, so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said as there werent storm conditions at the time of the damage, and the water ingress 
was due to wear and tear, there wasnt an insured peril. So she thought Ageas had acted 
fairly by declining the claim.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he couldnt reasonably have known about any problems with the 
roof so it wasnt fair for Ageas to decline his claim on that basis. And he thought he should 
be covered for consequential loss, even if the damage to the roof wasnt covered. He asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  an 
event thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either cover the claim or 
prove an exclusion applies. 
In this claim, Mr C has said the damage was caused by a storm and I can see storm damage 
is a peril covered under the policy. 
At this service, when we consider whether a business has fairly declined a claim for storm 
damage, we consider three questions. And, if we think the answer to all three questions is 
yes then we generally think the business should accept the claim.
The questions are as follows:
1. Were there storm conditions at the time the damage was caused?
2. Is the damage thats being claimed for consistent with a storm?
3. Is the storm the main cause of the damage? 
Mr Cs policy doesnt define what constitutes a storm, so when considering the first question, 
Ive kept in mind our general approach.
Ageas has said there werent storm conditions in the area of the insured property at the time. 
However Mr C has said there were strong winds that he feels amounted to storm conditions. 
Ive looked at weather reports in the area at the time and I agree there werent conditions 
that amount to what this service would consider to be a storm.
However there were some stronger wind gusts registered during the week of the event. And 
Mr C has said there was a named storm in the area shortly after the damage was caused. 
So I can understand why Mr C may have felt there were storm conditions. 
But even if I were to accept there were storm conditions, Id need to be satisfied that the 
other questions could be answered yes as well. And while the damage is consistent with 
storm damage  the tiles being displaced from the roof - Im not persuaded that the damage 
has been caused by a one-off weather event.
In both the report provided by Mr C and the one from Ageas expert they have concluded 
that the felt under the roof tiles had rotted and was letting water into the building. Rot is 
something that develops gradually and wouldnt be caused by a one-off weather event. So 
even if I were to accept that there was stormy weather at the time, Im satisfied that Ageas 
has shown that the cause of the damage was gradually operating and due to wear and tear. 
And, as this is excluded under the policy, Im satisfied that Ageas has acted fairly by 
declining Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C has said that he feels his consequential losses should be covered, even if the root 
cause isnt. As our investigator said, in order for the damage to be covered there would need 
to be an insured peril. And as Im not satisfied there were storm conditions at the time then I 
dont think an insured peril has been proved. Sometimes policies cover consequential losses 
under an accidental damage extension. However I can see that this isnt provided under the 
cover Mr C has purchased, so Im satisfied that Ages has acted fairly by not offering cover 
for consequential loss.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman