DRN-4245834
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) provided her with increasing credit that 
she couldnt afford and which led to her having money problems.
What happened
In November 2014 Studio approved Mrs B for a catalogue shopping account with a limit of 
£100. This limit was increased by Studio 12 times from July 2016 until it reached £900 by 
December 2020. It would appear that an, arrears recovery procedure, was entered into 
by Studio in October 2017, and that Mrs B has had repeated problems managing the 
account throughout most of its existence, but that at present the account remains open and 
owned by Studio.
Mrs B complained to Studio in May 2022 that the borrowing had caused her financial 
difficulties, which it did not accept. It also said that she had brought her complaint about the 
account opening too late under the relevant rules. However, it accepted that she had raised 
concerns about all the credit limit increases in time.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and accepted that we did not have the power to look 
into the account opening, but could consider all the credit limit increases. Mrs B accepted 
that and so our investigation continued to look at all the increases. The investigator thought 
that Studio hadnt done anything wrong in increasing the credit limit on the first three 
occasions. But she thought that by the time of the fourth credit limit increase, in January 
2017, Studio ought to have identified that further borrowing was not affordable and 
sustainable for Mrs B. Mrs B accepted that, but Studio didnt, and asked that the case be the 
subject of a final decision by an Ombudsman.
As there is no longer a dispute about the first three credit limit increases, I wont be 
considering them. The complaint is now solely about the increases from January 2017 
onwards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and Ill explain why.
The investigator thought that Studio should not have increased the credit limit on this 
account in January 2017, and I agree for broadly the same reasons.
Studio is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
these credit limit increases, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mrs R would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in 
a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the 
repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mrs R needed to be able to meet all her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Studio for the credit limit to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
What is clear to me is that it carried out sufficient checks to identify that any further 
borrowing was not affordable and sustainable for Mrs R. Theoretically, I accept the 
possibility that more detailed checks could have provided evidence that it in fact was, despite 
what the existing information showed. But it didnt carry out any further checks, so that is 
purely hypothetical. In any event, Studio knew enough to identify that Mrs R was likely 
experiencing wider financial difficulties and that this additional borrowing was not affordable 
and sustainable for her.
There were several issues with the Studio account conduct which strongly suggested that 
Mrs R was having difficulties. They were repeated failures to stay within the previously 
agreed credit limit during the 16 months prior to this increase; the application of multiple late 
payment charges/default sums; and the fact that Mrs R was not making any serious in 
roads into repaying the balance of the account.
These were not isolated occurrences, possibly the result of forgetfulness or inadvertent 
mistakes. By way of example, during 2016 Mrs R only kept within her agreed credit limit in 
four of the 12 months, and only avoided late payment charges in six months. There was a 
clear pattern of concern by January 2017.
Crucially, the high-level credit file data Studio obtained in January 2017 showed that Mrs R 
had two delinquent accounts with other creditors, and Studio itself classified Mrs R as being 
at, Risk of Financial Difficulties. Despite this, its only action was to increase her credit 
limit. Studio says that the delinquent accounts, all were more than 6 months old in Jan. 
2017 so were becoming less relevant However, I am not confident that is correct, given 
the data it has provided. In that data, there is a field to show the time since most recent 
delinquent account, which contains the figure 1 for January 2017. It is clear that the unit of 
time captured here is months, not years. So I cannot conclude that her situation was, in fact, 
improving by January 2017.
Studio also points out that the January 2017 credit limit increase was a modest one of £25, 
and didnt significantly increase Mrs Bs minimum monthly repayment. That is, of course, 
true. However, by this point Studio had enough information to recognise that any increase  
no matter how small  had the clear potential to be harmful to Mrs B.
Studio says that Mrs B had a healthy modelled household income, so ought therefore, 
presumably, to have been able to sustainably afford the increase. I can place no weight on 
this, as its clear Studio did not ask Mrs B about her income at this point, and how this figure 
was modelled, I have no idea. In no way, shape or form did Studio conduct any form of 
income and expenditure assessment prior to this credit limit increase. So a modelled 
income for her entire household is of little to no value in this context.
Finally, Studio highlights that, by continuing to support this customer, significant 
improvements were noted in future bureau data evidencing that no detriment had been 
caused It points to improvements in the high-level credit file data it gathered in 2018 and 
2020. I can only assume that by support, Studio means lend to. The use of the 
preposition by in this comment very strongly suggests to me that Studio believes its 
continued lending to Mrs B was in some way the cause of these improvements. I must say 
that I find any such causal link unlikely in the extreme, and indeed assume that I have 
misunderstood the intent behind this comment. I would point out that, in fact, the data show 
a continued deterioration in Mrs Bs credit file data throughout 2017; that Studio initiated its 
arrears recovery procedure in October 2017; and that Mrs B has continued to struggle 
to manage the account ever since. So the conclusion that her financial situation has improved (whether or not as a result of Studios actions) and therefore no detriment has 
been caused simply makes no sense.
On the basis of the information it had available to it, I find that Studio cannot have 
reasonably concluded that this credit limit increase was affordable and sustainable for Mrs 
R, bearing in mind the applicable regulations. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
As I understand it, this account remains open and owned by Studio. In order to put things 
right in this instance, Studio will need to refund all of the interest and charges applied to this 
account as a result of irresponsible lending.
To achieve that, I require Studio to take the following steps.
a) Rework the account to remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) 
incurred on the account since 19 January 2017 on balances exceeding £215.
b) Calculate what Mrs B would have owed it if the credit limit had stayed at £215.
c) Apply any and all repayments made by Mrs B since 19 January 2017 to that adjusted 
balance identified in b).
d) If that calculation means the adjusted balance would have been cleared, Studio must 
refund any remaining sums to Mrs B with 8% simple interest*, calculated from the 
date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Studio Retail Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman