DRN-3624566
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr P complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim on their home insurance for a stolen laptop.
Both Mrs C and Mr P are named policyholders on their Lloyds policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. The claim involves a third party, who  for clarity  Ill 
refer to as Mr M in my decision. And for simplicity, Ill refer mainly to Mr M from here onward.
What happened
Mr M was covered by a Lloyds home insurance policy. The policy included cover for 
personal belongings away from the home. In December 2021, he made a claim after his 
laptop was stolen while he was in a bar with friends.
Lloyds reviewed CCTV footage of the theft. It said this showed Mr M and his friends leave 
the laptop unattended when they left their table for a short time. While they were away, a 
person whod been standing beside their table took the laptop from its case and left. Lloyds 
told Mr M the laptop wasnt in his custody or control, which was a breach of the policy terms. 
It declined the claim.
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He says, in summary:
The CCTV footage shows him and his friends in shot when the laptop was stolen.
He could see the table the entire time he was at the bar, so the laptop was in his 
control.
If the laptop was in his control it couldnt have been stolen so the policy exclusion 
doesnt make sense. 
He wants Lloyds to accept the claim and reimburse the cost of a new laptop.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He reviewed the 
CCTV footage and agreed with Lloyds that the laptop wasnt in Mr Ms control. He was 
satisfied that Lloyds had acted reasonably by declining the claim. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Page 23 of the policy booklet (Personal belongings away from the home cover) says: Well 
pay claims If you or your family have your things with you and in your control at the time 
they are lost, stolen or damaged. The same section explains that in your control means 
you can reasonably protect it from damage or prevent it from being taken. It gives an 
example of a situation that wouldnt be covered: where a policyholder leaves their watch in a 
bag on a beach while they go swimming.
As our investigator explained, this is a common term found in most insurance policies and I 
dont think its unfair. Items left unattended are at a higher risk of being stolen and, generally, 
insurers arent willing to cover this risk. And I think the example given in the policy booklet is 
similar to the situation in this case: Mr M and his friends left their table to go to the bar to 
order drinks, leaving Mr Ms laptop unattended and at risk.
C told us that the table and laptop were in his view  therefore in his control  while he was 
at the bar. But, as Lloyds argued, that cant be right or hed have seen his laptop being 
stolen.
Ive watched the CCTV footage. This wasnt a particularly subtle theft  the thief had been 
standing beside Mr Ms table for several minutes before Mr M and his friends left to go to the 
bar. He then hooked his foot around the laptop case, dragged it to the next table, removed 
the laptop, replaced the case, and left. This took approximately 30 seconds. Mr M and his 
friends were away from the table for almost 90 seconds.
So I agree with Lloyds that Mr Ms laptop was left unattended so wasnt in his control. I think 
Lloyds reliance on the policy exclusion to decline the claim was reasonable. I appreciate this 
was a very expensive item and its loss was upsetting. However, for the reasons above, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds decision to decline the claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman