DRN-3334817
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclay Bank Plc failed to properly raise a chargeback for her, and it
has resulted in her suffering financial loss.
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs F bought 18 pairs of trainers from a retailer in two separate orders of nine
pairs each on the same day. She made two debit card payments of £540 each for the
orders. Delivery was expected a few days later.
Two days later the courier delivered seven of the pairs of trainers. Mrs F tells us that the
courier told her that there was a second parcel for her, but it had to be returned to the
couriers warehouse for a new barcode. He said he couldnt scan it on his scanner because
it had the same barcode as the first parcel, but it would be delivered the following day.
The next day it didnt arrive, and Mrs F contacted the retailer to say shed only received part
of her order and explained that the delivery driver had advised her that he had sent the
second parcel back. The first parcel contained only seven pairs of the 18 pairs of trainers.
Mrs F says the second parcel was never delivered. She continued to contact the retailer
about his throughout June and July, providing details of the order, what was missing, and the
delivery drivers explanation of what had happened. By the end of July, Mrs F didnt feel she
was getting anywhere, and she was substantially out of pocket, so she raised this as a
chargeback with Barclays.
Mrs F advised Barclays that she had only received part of her order and gave them the
details of her order, and the complaint against the retailer.
In July 2020 Barclays raised a chargeback with the retailers bank and they refunded two
payments of £540 to Mrs F pending the outcome.
In September 2020 this dispute was resolved as cardholder liable after investigation as the
retailer responded and advised that they had refunded £120 for the missing items. Barclays
advised that Mrs F would need to take the issue up with the retailer and that they would re 
debit in 14 days. Mrs F did not receive this letter.
In October 2020 whilst she was abroad, Mrs F was re-debited the full £1080 by Barclays
which put her in overdraft whilst she was out of the country.
Mrs F complained that this she hadnt been asked for any further details to support her case,
nor had she been advised on the outcome. She disagreed with the outcome.
Barclays did uphold a customer service issue on her complaint, accepting that she hadnt
received notification of the outcome and made a payment of £50 to Mrs F in respect of the
poor service.
Mrs F was unhappy with this. Barclays looked again at it, and in February 2021 Barclays
issued a further final response after looking into the complaint further. They accepted that
they had made a mistake when raising the chargeback and should have raised it as a partial
amount dispute, not a full amount. As a consequence, when it was defended, they were
unable to challenge it. As compensation of this failing, they credited Mrs F with a further
£230 compensation for the inconvenience.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Fs complaint. He thought that Barclays had acted
in a fair and reasonable manner.
Mrs F disagreed with our investigators view and the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered whether Barclays have followed the process for dealing with the chargeback
properly and whether if this hadnt gone wrong, would it have been likely that the chargeback
decision would have gone in Mrs Fs favour.
Mrs F has provided me with a very detailed account of her communications with the retailer
and with Barclays, and also with screenshots of messages between her and the retailer, and
e mails between her, the retailer and Barclays.
From these communications I can see that Mrs F made it clear to the retailer from the outset
exactly how may pairs and which trainers hadnt been delivered. She reported it straight
away, and on 28 June 2020 she completed missing parcel forms which the retailer gave to
her. The retailer confirmed in an email for order XXXX23860 based on the following couriers
tracking number XXXX582810385677, this has been returned to sender. Therefore, a refund
should be resolved once the return is processed at our main warehouse. As for order
XXXX123584 I will shortly send you a missing parcel order form via e mail. I advise you to fill
it up and provide a picture/scan of it.
They later confirmed a second tracking number of XXXX582810385875 for order
XXXX123584.
Mrs F was told she would be updated in 10 days. She checked the tracking which showed
that the parcel XXXX582810385677 had been received back with the retailer, but when she
contacted the retailer, they said they hadnt received it yet and they would contact the
courier.
Mrs F was then told she would need to wait a further 28 days for the outcome of the missing
parcel investigation because it was a high value transaction.
It seems to me from these exchanges that there is some independent evidence that the
parcel for order number XXXX23860 was sent back to the retailer. We dont know if it was
ever received, but I think its fair to say from these messages that it wasnt delivered to Mrs F
and it was sent back.
According to the retailers evidence, a partial refund of £120 was made on 29 July 2020 for
two pairs of trainers on order XXXX23584 - which was the other order number  so there
seems to have been some acceptance on the part of the retailer that at least some of this
order was not fulfilled.
However, in the meantime because she was at a loss of £660, Mrs F had become frustrated,
and asked Barclays to raise a chargeback for the missing items.
I can see from the information provided by Barclays that in August they wrote to Mrs F and
advised that the charge back had been defended by the retailers bank, that they had
rejected it, and that it may need to go to Visa for a decision. They initiated pre arbitration, but
the retailers bank rejected it saying that the retailer stated that the goods had been received
and a partial refund had been made for goods not received. Barclays have said in their firstfinal response they sent a letter to Mrs F with this evidence to review, but she says it wasnt
received.
The evidence provided by the retailer, which I have seen, relates only to order number
XXXX23584, and says that a refund of £120 has been made for two of the pairs of trainers
on that order. There is nothing in the evidence about order number XXXX23860, which has
previously been evidence to be on its way back to the retailer.
As Mrs F didnt see this evidence she was unable to challenge it or to confirm that there
were still nine pairs of trainers outstanding on order XXXX23860.
On 19 September 2020 Barclays decided they were no longer able to dispute the transaction
and they would re debit the payment in 14 days. There is nothing in the file to suggest Mrs F
was ever notified of this.
It seems to me that this where things have gone wrong. If Barclays had correctly raised the
chargeback as a partial refund for the items not received, the evidence presented by the
retailer would have needed to relate specifically to those missing items. As it was, the
retailers bank simply presented evidence of some delivery and some refund on one of the
order numbers and this was accepted. No details of the outcome of the missing parcel
investigation was ever looked at, which was really fundamental to the issue.
On 5 October 2020 whilst abroad, Mrs F noticed her account was overdrawn, and that it was
caused by the debit of the £1080. She says she was left overdrawn in a foreign country with
only her debit card, which left her in financial difficulties. She was also unable to raise this
issue again as a chargeback with the correct information.
On 21 October Mrs F again contacted the retailer about what had happened to the missing
parcel investigation, and she received the following response I have checked your order 
details and I can see that a cardholder dispute has been opened. Once a cardholder dispute 
has been opened by the account holder, you will have to liaise directly with your bank, as 
your bank will conduct the investigation and will provide you with an outcome. Their decision 
will be final and this will not be overturned. In a further e mail, they added We was 
processing the missing parcel investigation but you then requested for your bank to take 
over. Their decision will be final.
Mrs F was now in a position where the retailer was no longer willing to look into the matter
and Barclays failure to correctly raise the chargeback had resulted in it being declined.
Barclays have accepted that they should have raised the chargeback as a partial
chargeback, and their failure to do so meant the chargeback was deemed invalid once the
evidence of the partial refund was presented. They have awarded £230 compensation for
distress and inconvenience in respect of this failing, but Mrs F has lost £540 as a result of
the missing order.
So, Im satisfied that Barclays failing to raise the chargeback correctly and to allow Mrs F the
opportunity to view and challenge the evidence from the retailer is an error on their part.
Ive then thought about whether if Barclays had correctly raised the chargeback, and asked
Mrs F for her comments and evidence when the retailers evidence was sent, would the
outcome have been any different.
I consider that it is likely that it would have been. I think that the evidence that Ive seen and
detailed above is sufficient to show that the parcel for the order number XXXX2380 was on
its way back to the retailer, and it is likely that Mrs F didnt receive it. This should have been
enough for the case to have been taken to arbitration and be decided in her favour.In view of this, and the retailers refusal to look into it any further following the banks
involvement, I am minded to direct that Barclays should reimburse Mrs F the £540 in respect
of the nine pairs of missing trainers. I dont propose to interfere with the award already made
for distress and inconvenience as that is broadly in line with what we would recommend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mrs F and Barclays a copy of my provisional decision. 
Neither have responded, and so Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive set out 
above
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays should pay Mrs F 
£540 as reimbursement for the chargeback
8% simple interest on that sum from the date that the chargeback process was
terminated until the date of settlement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding Mrs Fs complaint, and I direct Barclays Bank UK plc 
to put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman