DRN-2561675
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance, (MPPI), policy. 
Mr A may have complaints against Lloyds, other than about the way it sold the MMPI to him. 
So I wish to make it clear from the outset that this decision only deals with his complaint that 
the policy was mis-sold to him.
What happened
Mr A took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 1998, at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. The sale took place during a meeting. The initial premiums for this insurance were 
about £21 a month. And, following a successful claim, it would have paid out over £280 a 
month for up to 12 months, had Mr A been off work because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. As Mr A
disagreed the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, but Ive decided not to uphold his
complaint. I explain why below.
Understandably, because of the time that has passed, Mr A doesnt remember whether the 
MPPI was sold over the phone, by post or during a meeting; or whether Lloyds advised him 
to take out the insurance. But he does say that he doesnt recall Lloyds explaining the MPPI 
to him or giving him any details about it. And that because of his employment terms at the 
time, he wouldnt have needed it. But, on balance, I think that Mr A knew that the MPPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen his signed mortgage loan 
agreement. This says that the agreement includes some standard loan and mortgage terms. 
I havent seen these. But, knowing what we do about Lloyds mortgages generally, Im 
satisfied that these terms wouldnt have included a requirement to take out MPPI. And the 
additional conditions, which are printed on the mortgage loan agreement itself, dont include 
such a requirement.
Ive also seen Mr As MPPI proposal form. This is a separate document from the mortgage 
agreement itself, which I think makes it clear that it was a separate product from the loan. 
And there is nothing on it to suggest that the insurance is required if Mr A is to get his 
mortgage. So as I can see that he signed this form, Im satisfied that Mr A wanted to apply 
for the policy
Lloyds recommended to Mr A that he take out the policy. This means that it had to take
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for him. Lloyds also had to give Mr A clear,
fair and not-misleading information so that he could make an informed decision whether he
wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of his circumstances at the time.
I find that the policy was suitable for Mr A. I say this because knowing what I do about his
circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
Mr A was eligible for the policy;
Mr A wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations - such as those
affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the market 
at the time. And it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to make me 
think that Mr A couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, had he later thought that he 
couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost because it was paid for monthly;
Mr A was entitled to sick pay from his employment and he says he had a redundancy 
package. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in addition to 
these. Leaving those available to meet his other expenses while he was unable to work. 
These MPPI payments would have been made for up 12 months, which is a longer 
period than was represented by his sick pay. So I find that the policy could have been of 
use to him. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that could 
have arisen had Mr A been unable to make his mortgage repayments which were 
secured on his home;
Its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr A everything that it ought to have about the policy 
during the sales meeting. Including that he would have had to continue paying the premiums 
during any period of claim, making the benefit less valuable than he might have thought. But 
as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for him, I think that he would still have taken it 
had Lloyds given him clearer information. This means that Mr A hasnt lost out because of 
anything that may have been wrong with Lloyds sales process. So theres nothing I require 
Lloyds to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman