DRN-3766854
The complaint
Ms H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the money she transferred 
to a fraudster.
What happened
Ms Hs complaint was brought to this service by a representative. As the account is in Ms 
Hs name, Ill mainly refer to Ms H in this decision.
What Ms H says
Ms H says that she messaged someone about an investment opportunity on social media 
and then messages moved to WhatsApp. Ms H didnt know at the time that the messages 
were from a scammer not a trader. She asked the scammer for information about the 
investment. The scammer explained that for a 25% commission she traded on behalf of 
clients. The minimum investment was £500, and Ms H could expect a return of £1,500 to 
£2,000 net of commission in three to five hours. The scammer said that as it was Ms Hs first 
time investing, she was guaranteed to get her initial return back.  
Ms H invested £500 and was told later that day she would receive profits of £9,750 but 
needed to pay a £2,100 release fee first. She was provided with screenshots which showed 
the profit. The scammer asked Ms H which bank she was sending the funds from and after 
Ms H confirmed they would come from Monzo, she was asked to make two payments of 
£1,050. After she made the payments Ms H was told that profits had increased to 
£20,793.61. As profits exceeded £20,000, Ms H was told there was an additional fee of 
£1,500. Ms H said she couldnt afford this amount and asked for a refund. The scammer told 
Ms H she couldnt get a refund at that stage and that she should pay £500 and the scammer 
would pay the rest. 
Ms H made the following payments during the scam:
Date Amount Payee
01/12/21 £500 1
01/01/21 £1,050 2
01/01/21 £1,050 2
02/01/21 £500 2
Total £3,100
Ms H was told she should expect to receive profits a few days later but this didnt happen, 
and Ms H realised she was the victim of a scam. She called Monzo to report the scam on 6 
January 2021. Ms H is unhappy that Monzo hasnt agree to refund the money she 
transferred to the scammer. 
Ms H believes that the payments she made were unusual because of the amounts, the fact 
the payments were made in rapid succession and because it was the first time she had 
invested. As a result, she believes Monzo should have intervened and stopped the 
payments from being made. Ms H doesnt believe the on screen fraud warnings she 
received in the app went far enough. Ms H has also referred to the fact she was very young 
at the time of the scam and she was vulnerable because of this. Other factors that made her 
vulnerable included the fact that she was a student and didnt know what she was investing 
in and the fact she was in financial difficulty so susceptible to scams.
What Monzo say
Monzo hasnt agreed to reimburse Ms H. It says that Ms H didnt take sufficient steps to 
ensure she was making a genuine investment. But Monzo said it too long to respond to Ms 
Hs complaint and paid her £50 compensation.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that she didnt think Ms H had a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate 
investment because:
- The investment was arranged over social media and Ms H communicated with the 
scammer via WhatsApp. Monzo provided her with a warning that said genuine 
investments arent arranged over social media or things like WhatsApp.
- The scammer told Ms H to ignore the warning which should have led to concerns.
- The rate of return was unrealistic.
- Ms H paid two individuals rather than a company. 
Ms H didnt agree with the investigators findings. Through her representative, she said:
- She was vulnerable to the scam given her age at the time it happened. Ms H said 
that youth is associated with inexperience which made Ms H more vulnerable. 
- The investigation had focused on Ms Hs reasonable basis for belief but Monzo had a 
duty to protect Ms H from harm. The payments were unusual and so Monzo should 
have had a conversation with Ms H. Had it done so, Monzo would have identified that 
she was falling victim to a scam which it could have prevented. The screen warning 
provided by Monzo wasnt sufficient.
- If Monzo had intervened as it should have, the chances of recovering Ms Hs funds 
would have increased. 
Ms Hs complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Ms H under the provisions of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (the CRM Code) and whether it ought to have 
done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Monzo isnt a 
signatory of the CRM Code but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it.
Was Ms H vulnerable as defined in the CRM Code 
Ms Hs representative has said she was vulnerable at the time of the scam, so Ive thought 
very carefully about whether Ms H met the CRM Code definition of vulnerable at the time she made the payments. Whilst I have a lot of sympathy for Ms H, Ive decided that she 
wasnt vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code says that someone is vulnerable  and so should receive a full refund of the 
amount lost in an APP scam if, it would not be reasonable to expect that Customer to have 
protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, against that particular 
APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
I accept that young people can be vulnerable, but this in itself isnt enough for me to ask 
Monzo to provide a refund. The CRM Code requires me to consider Ms Hs ability to protect 
herself from this particular scam at the time that it happened. I think Ms Hs age and 
inexperience likely played a role in what happened, but Im not persuaded these factors 
meant she was unable to protect herself from the scam she fell victim to. Before she paid the 
fees (two times £1,050) Ms H said to the scammer that she didnt want to lose her money, 
showing that she recognised there was a risk. And as a university student I consider Ms H 
had the skills to complete some research to satisfy herself the investment was genuine.  
Ive gone onto consider whether Ms H had a reasonable basis for believing that she was 
paying a genuine trader for an investment. I appreciate Ms H was tricked into making the 
payments. But this isnt enough for her to receive a refund of the money under the CRM 
Code. The Code says that a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Ms 
H and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Ms H made are enough to support its position that it can rely 
on an exception to reimbursement. I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were for genuine services or that the person she transacted with was legitimate 
and will explain why. I should also say that its the combination of these factors that lead me 
to believe Ms H didnt have a reasonable basis for belief and that none of them can be 
considered alone.
- Ms H saw the investment on a social media platform and contact with the scammer 
was via WhatsApp. This is not what Id expect of a legitimate trader.
- The investment Ms H was offered did not sound genuine and the rate of return and 
the timescale to receive it were too good to be true. Initially Ms H was told that an 
investment of £500 would yield a profit (net of fees) of £1,500 to £2,000 in three to 
five hours. The scammer also told Ms H that she was guaranteed to receive her initial 
investment back on the same day. I cant agree with Ms Hs representative that a rate 
of return of over 300% in a matter of hours is realistic and I consider that Ms H 
should have taken additional steps to understand how this was possible.  
When Ms H made the two payments totalling £2,100 on the day of her initial 
investment she was told her profit had reached £9,750. This is rate of return of nearly 
2,000% in a matter of hours and ought reasonably to have rung alarm bells. Ms H did 
seem to have some concerns because she asked the scammer to explain how it 
worked again, saying she didnt want to lose her money. The scammer simply told 
her that if she paid £2,100, she would receive her profit and Ms H accepted this. 
The following day Ms H was told her investment had reached £20,793.61 (an increase of over 4,000%). She was asked to pay a further fee of £1,500 (which would 
be refunded) and when she said she couldnt afford this amount the scammer told 
her to pay £500 and she would pay the rest. The rate of return was totally unrealistic, 
and no genuine trader would agree to pay fees for a client so I consider Ms H should 
have taken additional steps before making the payment.
- The language used by the scammer wasnt professional and wasnt what Id expect 
of a genuine trader. She used words like Sis.
- Ms H didnt receive any documentation in respect of the investment (other than 
receipts) which is unusual. 
- Ms H paid two different individual payees. The scammer told her she was providing 
the details of the finance department so paying individual payees was strange. There 
was also no explanation for the fact Ms H was paying a different person from the 
second payment onwards and Ms H didnt ask for one. This is not what Id expect if 
she was investing through a genuine company.
- Ms H was asked to pay the £2,100 release fee in two payments of £1,050. She 
wasnt provided with an explanation for this and didnt request one. 
- Ms H looked at the website provided but didnt complete any other research before 
deciding to go ahead and invest. She has explained the loss of funds has had a huge 
impact on her, so Id have expected her to have gone further before transferring her 
funds to a stranger. I appreciate that Ms H has said a shared religion gave her 
confidence that the scammer was genuine, but I dont think it was reasonable to rely 
on this given the other red flags Ive discussed. 
- The warnings Ms H was given by Monzo in the payment journeys should have led 
her to take additional steps before transferring funds.  Ive seen evidence that Ms H 
was provided with a general warning when she made the first payment and with a 
specific investment warning when she made the two payments of £1,050. The 
warning said, Legitimate investments arent arranged over social media or things like 
WhatsApp. Ms H arranged the investment through social media and WhatsApp so 
this warning ought to have resonated with her. The warning also advised her to 
check the company she was investing with was FCA registered and advised her not 
to pay if this wasnt the case. The scammer didnt claim to be from an FCA registered 
company, so I think this warning ought reasonably to have led Ms H to question the 
trader and to complete some independent research.
Overall, I dont consider Ms H did enough to satisfy herself she was making a genuine 
investment and so Monzo is entitled to rely on an exception to reimbursement under the 
CRM Code. 
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Ms H? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide effective warnings (as set out 
in the CRM Code) to their customers. The Code also says that the assessment of whether a 
firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
Im not persuaded that any of the payments Ms H made were out of the ordinary and so I 
dont think Monzo ought to have believed there was a scam risk. The amounts sent werent 
particularly large and didnt clear Ms Hs account of funds. To Monzo, the transactions 
appeared to be genuinely authorised payments and there was no reason why they wouldnt 
have seemed genuine.Im aware that Ms Hs representatives have said that as there were four payments over two 
days Monzo should have intervened rather than just provide screen warnings in the payment 
journey, but I dont agree. None of the payments were especially large and even if added 
together were not so unusual that Id expect Monzo to call Ms H to discuss them. I dont 
believe Monzo needed to provide effective warnings under the CRM Code for the same 
reasons.  
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the 
ones Ms H made were blocked while further enquiries were made, many genuine payments 
would be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay. Whilst banks have 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests they 
cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Did Monzo do enough to recover Ms Hs money?
Ive also considered Monzos actions once it was made aware of the scam. Ms H reported 
the scam on 6 January 2021, and Ive seen evidence that Monzo tried to recover Ms Hs 
funds from the two banks she sent them to on the same day, but no funds remained. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider there was anything more Monzo could have done. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman