DRN-4227440
The complaint
Mrs D complains, through a representative, about the advice she received in 1996 from what 
is now Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to start a Free-Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contributions plan (FSAVC).
Although Mrs D is represented in this complaint, for ease of reading I will generally refer to 
all of complainants representations as being made by Mrs D.
What happened
Mrs D was a member of a final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 
September 1996 she and her husband met with Aviva to discuss making additional provision 
for their retirement. A fact find was completed which showed Mrs Ds circumstances at the 
time were as follows:
she was 24 years old, married with no dependents
employed earning around £14,600 per year
joined her employers OPS in 1994; the schemes normal retirement age was 60
she wasnt expecting to retire until age 60, but hoped to retire at age 55
Mrs Ds objective was to provide additional retirement income from age 55 onwards. 
At this time Mrs D was provided with a comparison leaflet titled Additional Voluntary 
Contributions Information on the Options Available to You. Amongst other things, regarding 
additional voluntary contributions (AVC), it said:
The charges on In house AVCs are usually lower than on an FSAVC Scheme. 
However, charges are difficult to quantify on conventional With-Profit and deposit type 
funds because investment managers generally retain discretion over the total returns.
And under the information related to an FSAVC, it stated:
Charges are usually higher than on Scheme AVCs although some companies offer 
products with very low charges specifically for members of certain occupational 
schemes. 
Mrs D signed a declaration at the bottom of the leaflet confirming that she understood the 
content of the leaflet and that she had the opportunity to contact the administrator of her 
employers OPS and that as a result of her investigations, she decided to proceed with the 
FSAVC. 
Aviva recommended that Mrs D take out its FSAVC and invest 100% in its Managed Fund. 
Mrs D accepted the advice and began making monthly contributions of £25 (gross) in 
October 1996. 
In 1998, following further advice from what is now Aviva, Mrs D increased her contributions 
to £64.94 (gross) per month. 
In November 2022, Mrs D complained to Aviva that it had failed to provide her a suitable 
recommendation in 1996. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said, among other things, that the documents from the 
time of sale show that the adviser did explain the benefits of an in-house AVC and provided 
a comparison with an FSAVC arrangement. It also said that Mrs D was provided with written 
material summarising these. Overall, Aviva thought the regulatory requirements had been 
met and the advice was suitable. 
Aviva also explained it thought Mrs D had brought her complaint too late.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs D brought her complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. Our investigator first looked into whether this complaint was within 
our jurisdiction. He concluded that it was, explaining that even though the event being 
complained of occurred more than six years ago, he didnt think Mrs D ought reasonably to 
have been aware she had cause to complain more than three years before she did. So it had 
been made in time. 
The investigator then went on to consider the merits of Mrs Ds complaint. Having done so, 
he didnt consider that the FSAVC plan had been mis-sold so he didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mrs D didnt agree and said that there was nothing in the recommendation about charges 
and very little about any discussions, so she was unable to agree that the applicable 
guidance had been followed. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs D and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
I think it is also useful to reflect on the role of the Financial Ombudsman as an initial matter. 
This Service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the 
role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Instead this Service looks to 
resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that 
something has gone wrong, we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred. 
I will now address Avivas objection about the timeliness of Mrs Ds complaint.
Was the complaint made in time?
The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are set out in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, which form part of the FCAs Handbook. In particular 
DISP 2.8.2R says:The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received.
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
We can only look at cases that fall outside of this time period if the business consents to us 
doing so or if the delay was due to exceptional circumstances. 
Where the business doesnt consent, as is the case here, I must consider whether the 
complaint has been made in time.
Mrs Ds complaint concerns advice provided to her in 1996. As the complaint wasnt raised 
until 2022, more than six years later, we wouldnt be able to consider this complaint in 
accordance with DISP rule 2.8.2 (2)(a).
So, Ive gone on to consider whether the three-year rule applies. Applying DISP rule 2.8.2
(2)(b), would mean we can look at this complaint if it was made within three years from when
Mrs D was aware (or ought reasonably to have been aware) that she had cause for 
complaint. Mrs D has said that she wasnt aware of a cause to complain until she saw a 
social media advert in October 2022. Aviva assert that Mrs D ought reasonably to have been 
aware she had cause for complaint following the subsequent advice she received in 1998 to 
increase her contribution to the FSAVC. 
Ive thought about this, but I dont agree that this ought reasonably to have made Mrs D 
aware she had cause for complaint. Ive reviewed the information provided to her at this time 
and Im not persuaded it was sufficient to make her aware the initial advice might not have 
been right for her. And considering that the original advice was given only two years prior 
and the advice in 1998 was essentially the same, I dont think Mrs D would have had any 
reason to question it. 
So I conclude that its more likely than not Mrs D became aware that she had cause for 
complaint in October 2022. She then complained within three years. As theres insufficient 
evidence that persuades me that she ought reasonably to have known sooner, Im satisfied 
the complaint has been brought in time and is therefore something this Service can consider. 
Was the advice suitable?
I have carefully reviewed all of the information provided by both parties in order to determine 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. In order to decide this complaint, I need to consider whether Aviva complied with the 
applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice. And, if there were any 
failings, whether the failing made a difference. In particular, would Mrs D have still taken out 
the FSAVC?
The advice was provided in October 1996. So the relevant regulatory guidance was 
contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was produced by the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA), one of the predecessors to the current regulator  the 
FCA. RU20 gave guidance on the procedures for advising clients on the relative merits of 
FSAVC and in-house AVC plans. 
The guidance set out different requirements depending on whether the adviser was an 
independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  one who is employed by, or contracted to, 
one organisation and can only recommend and sell that organisations products. In this case 
the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU20 specified that:
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account, 
among other things, of the features described in this article); and
directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information on 
the in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the 
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his companys 
FSAVC.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVC plans 
would usually be lower. The regulator also expected the clients advice file to include 
documentary evidence demonstrating that the requirements of RU20 had been met.
So the adviser needed to make Mrs D aware of the in-house AVC plan and discuss the 
generic features of the in-house option and the FSAVC. The key difference I wouldve 
expected Aviva to discuss with Mrs D would be the likelihood of lower charges for the in-
house AVC arrangement. And I would expect Mrs D to have been directed to her employer 
and/or OPS administrators to obtain more information on her in-house options.
I have reviewed the documents that were given to Mrs D at the time she met with her 
adviser. I have made particular note of the leaflet, Additional Voluntary Contributions 
Information on the Options Available to You.
I am satisfied that this gave an understandable explanation of the choices available to Mrs D 
and made her aware that she ought to contact her employers scheme administrators for 
details of the benefits that might be available to her under the in-house AVC option. 
The leaflet also considered the advantages of in-house AVCs in comparison to the 
alternative of an FSAVC, including that AVCs may be less expensive.  
Mrs D signed a declaration in September 1996 confirming the leaflet had been received and 
that shed had an opportunity to contact her employers scheme administrators. And the 
suitability letter provided to Mrs D in October 1996 explained:You are proceeding with this [FSAVC] plan after receiving an explanation of the 
comparative benefits of in-house AVC and FSAVC Plans, and you have received written 
material summarising these. 
Given this, I am not persuaded that no reference was made, or discussions held on those 
options. On the balance of probability, I am persuaded by the evidence I have seen that the 
adviser complied with the relevant regulatory obligations and made appropriate references to 
Mrs Ds options. 
I understand that Mrs D will be disappointed with my conclusions. However, I am unable to 
conclude in the circumstances of this complaint that the FSAVC was mis-sold, so I will not 
be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided, I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman