DRN-2741878
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, (trading as Woolwich), mis-sold him 
mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI).
What happened
Mr C took out three MPPI policies during meetings, respectively in 1998, 2003 and 2008. 
They were to cover payments due to Woolwich under various mortgages Mr C had with it. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree 
so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Woolwich has told us that Mr C cancelled the 2008 policy soon after it started and, in 
particular, before he had made any premium payments. This means that even if that policy 
had been mis-sold, he wouldnt have lost out financially. Where, following consideration of 
a complaint brought to us, we decide that a financial; business has done something wrong, 
this service endeavours to put consumers back into the position in which they would have 
been had the business not done anything wrong. So here, where Mr C hasnt lost out, 
there is nothing to put right. So I havent considered whether Woolwich mis-sold that policy
Because the other sales were so long ago, Woolwich no longer has any of the paperwork 
signed by Mr C. And it is not required to keep papers for this length of time. So, Ive had to 
make my decision based on the information that I do have, and what we know generally 
about the sale of MPPI policies and, in particular, those sold by Woolwich. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, (as some of it is here), Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. Im satisfied that 
these approaches are a fair and reasonable way of reaching my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint in respect of the policies sold in 1998 and 2003. I 
explain why below:
I think that Mr C knew that the policies were optional and that he chose to take them. I say 
this because Ive seen a note of the financial advice Woolwich gave Mr C before he took 
out the first policy. I can see that, in addition to other insurance recommendations, the 
advisor recommended MPPI. The reason for this is noted as to ensure that you can meet 
all of your mortgage related costs in the event of redundancy, sickness or accident. So I 
find that there was a discussion about the MPPI on that sale and, because the MPPI was 
added to Mr Cs account, he must have agreed to take it. 
In the record of the financial recommendations, to which Ive referred above, the MPPI 
recommendation was referred to on a page following that where the other insurance 
recommendations were recorded. And the total cost of all the insurance recommendations 
were also on that subsequent page. Mr C says that this made him believe that the MPPI 
was not optional. I dont doubt that this is how Mr C now remembers things. But, because it 
was all so long ago, I dont think that I can fairly rely just on his memory. And I dont see 
how setting out the various recommendations in that way could reasonably, of itself, had 
had that effect. Mr C also says that nowhere on the form does it make it clear that the 
policy was optional. But the form is just a note of what was recommended at the meeting. 
There is no need for it to record that the policy was optional. And because of the time that 
has passed I havent seen anything else on which I can base a finding that Woolwich didnt 
make it clear to Mr C in 1998 that the policy was optional.
Ive not seen anything about what was discussed during the 2003 meeting. But I have seen 
a sample of the mortgage application form that Woolwich says was in use at the time of 
that sale. This has a section in it regarding MPPI that requires the applicant to complete 
one of two sections  either to request the insurance or decline it. It may be that Woolwich 
completed the application form on behalf of Mr C before giving it to him to sign. But the 
section to which Ive referred above has to be signed separately from the application as a 
whole. So Im satisfied that Mr C would have had the opportunity to review the section and 
query the way the form had been completed, had he not wanted the policy. And again I 
have seen nothing to suggest that Mr C was told that he had to take out a new MPPI policy 
if he wanted the relevant mortgage.
Woolwich advised Mr C to take out the policies. This means that Woolwich needed to have 
taken reasonable steps to ensure that the policies were suitable for him. Because of the time 
that has passed, I dont know what steps Woolwich actually took. But, in any event, I find 
that the policies were suitable. I say this taking into account what I know about Mr Cs 
circumstances at the relevant times and by reference to the terms and conditions of the 
policies that I think applied, because:
Because of his age and employment and residence statuses, I think it was likely that 
Mr C was eligible for the policies when they were sold;
Mr C wasnt adversely affected by any of the policies likely main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr C has told us that at the time of each sale he was entitled to some sick pay and 
may have been entitled to redundancy packages. He has also told us that he had 
some savings at these times. But, following a successful claim for accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment, I find that its likely the 1998 policy would 
have paid out about £550 a month. And the 2003 policy would likely have paid out 
£300 a month. These payments would likely to have been made for up to 12 
months. And would have been paid in addition to any sick or redundancy payments 
from Mr Cs work and any savings, leaving those available to help with meeting his 
other expenses while he wasnt earning. So I find that the MPPI could have been of 
use to Mr C;The costs of the policies were respectively initially about £32 and £17 a month and 
were competitively priced by reference to other similar policies available in the 
market at the times. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were 
unaffordable for Mr C. In any event, had he later felt that he couldnt afford the 
policies, he could have cancelled them at any time without further cost, as they were 
paid for monthly.
Woolwich also had to give Mr C clear, fair, and not-misleading information about the main 
features of the MPPI, so that he could decide whether he wanted it or not. Its possible that 
the information Woolwich gave Mr C wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive found 
nothing on which to conclude that he didnt choose to take the policies and from what Ive 
concluded above, it seems like they would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
MPPI would have put Mr C off taking out the cover. I say this, particularly bearing in mind 
the serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr C not been able to make his 
monthly payments on his mortgages, which were secured on his home.
So I conclude that Mr C hasnt lost out because of anything that Woolwich may have 
done wrong during the sales. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully considered everything that Mr T has told us, including that 
his family could have helped him out had he not been working. As we explain on our 
website, we dont usually take this into account because circumstances change  and such 
assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mr Cs case to make me think its 
reasonable to deviate from this approach here. So this doesnt change my decision.
Mr C has told us about his employment, health and financial circumstances at the times of 
the MPPI sales. He says that he never missed any of his mortgage repayments to 
Woolwich. So he says that he should never have been sold the MPPI. He says that he just 
did as he was told. But the fact that his circumstances were as they were at the time of 
the sales and that, as it turned out in practice, he didnt miss any payments, doesnt mean 
that at the time of the sales he couldnt envisage matters that could have arisen that might 
have given rise to the insurance being helpful. So this doesnt affect my decision
I am aware that, in response to some early letters from Mr C, Woolwich incorrectly told 
him that he didnt have MPPI, before it accepted that he did. Im aware that this delay 
caused Mr C inconvenience and frustration. However, Woolwich has apologised to Mr C 
for its error. And in the circumstances of this case, where I dont find there was any mis-
sale of the policies, Im satisfied that Woolwich doesnt have to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman