DRN-1070196
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about EUI Limiteds valuation of his car following a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr H had an accident whilst driving. EUI decided that his car was a total 
loss. It said that the pre accident market value of Mr Hs car was £11,420 and paid him that 
amount, less the excess due under his policy. 
Mr H didnt think that EUIs valuation of his car was reasonable. In response to his complaint, 
EUI explained that it had used three trade guides to value Mr Hs car, which had provided 
valuations of £11,420, £11,365 and £11,080. It chose the highest of those valuations.
Mr H says that the market value of his car was £14,000 and he wants EUI to pay him more 
than its already paid.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that EUIs valuation of  
Mr Hs car at £11,420 was reasonable. The investigator said that shed looked at four trade 
guides, which gave values of £13,495, £12,015, £11,420 and £11,200. She disregarded the 
highest valuation, as she said it was out of line with the others. The investigator said that 
whilst the valuations EUI had relied on differed slightly from the valuations shed seen, she 
didnt think that was significant, as EUI had valued Mr Hs car reasonably. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said that two of the three trade guide valuations 
the investigator had relied on were different from the valuations provided by EUI from the 
same trade guides. In addition, hed got different valuations from three of the trade guides 
and couldnt access the fourth trade guide, which he didnt think was transparent. Mr H says 
that the investigator should have considered the highest valuation of £13,495, as it wasnt an 
outlier and aligns with advertised prices for cars similar to his car.
The investigator said that she couldnt comment on why the valuations shed relied on 
differed from EUIs valuations. She maintained that the highest valuation was out of line with 
the others. The investigator said that market values and selling prices are different. 
Mr H said that EUI hadnt included one optional extra in one of its valuations and he thought 
that the information EUI had input into the valuation tools might have given inaccurate 
values. He provided details of the optional extras his car had. 
 
The investigator looked at the trade valuations again, taking into account the optional extras 
Mr H had now mentioned. She said that there was an increase in two of the valuations to 
£12,395 (from £12,015) and £11,365 (from £11,200). She remained of the view that EUIs 
valuation of £11,420 was reasonable. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is Mr Hs policy with EUI, which says that EUI will decide how to settle   Mr 
Hs claim and, if it decides to pay a cash sum, rather than repair his car, the most it will pay 
is the market value of the car. Market value is defined as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. []
Our role isnt to give an exact valuation of Mr Hs car but to decide whether EUIs offer was 
fair and reasonable. 
We dont usually find advertisements for similar cars very persuasive. Thats because the 
advertised price isnt necessarily the sale price and differences between advertised cars and 
Mr Hs car can significantly affect value. Trade guides give a fair indication of market value 
as theyre based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. So I think that the 
trade guides are both persuasive and appropriate here. 
The valuations from the four trade guides weve looked at, which take into account the 
optional extras Mr H says his car had where thats possible, are £13,495, £12,395, £11,420 
and £11,365. I think its right to disregard the highest valuation as it's significantly different 
from the other three. Mr H says it isnt an outlier, based on the interquartile range rule. I dont 
think rule helps us here, with such a small data set. 
EUI isnt obliged to offer Mr H the highest valuation. I think that its valuation of £11,420 is 
fair, as it's within the range of the three relevant valuations. 
My final decision
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr H but, for the reasons I've set out above, my final decision is that I 
don't uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman