DRN-3694618
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C booked a trip abroad with intended departure and return dates of 5 September 
2021 and 19 September 2021 respectively. On 21 August 2021 they took out an annual 
multi-trip travel insurance policy through a price comparison website, which was underwritten 
by Great Lakes. The policy was to start on 5 September 2021.
On 3 September 2021, Mr and Mrs C started to feel unwell. Unfortunately, they both tested 
positive for the Covid-19 virus. As a result, they didnt travel on their holiday and 
subsequently made a claim to Great Lakes for the cost of the cancelled trip.
Great Lakes rejected their claim. It said that the cancellation section of the policy only 
provides cover for events that occur with the period of cover. Great Lakes said that the 
period of cover for Mr and Mrs Cs policy didnt start until 5 September 2021 and therefore 
the illness necessitating the cancellation was already in existence prior to the 
commencement of the cover.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs C complained to Great Lakes and brought their 
complaint to this service. They said that the policy says it provides cover for the cancellation 
of a trip if it is due to someone contracting Covid-19 up to 14 days before their trip. As they 
became unwell and tested positive for the virus the day before their departure date, they 
believe they are covered. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that the 
policy did include cover for cancellations caused by the policyholder contracting Covid-19 
within 14 days of the trip, however, that illness had to take place within the period of cover. 
As Mr and Mrs Cs period of cover hadnt started until after they had tested positive for the 
virus, she didnt think Great Lakes had acted unfairly by declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
As with most annual travel insurance policies, the cancellation benefits available under Mr 
and Mrs Cs policy didnt come into effect until the date chosen at the point of sale as the 
policy start date. This is detailed in the policy wording under the definition of period of cover 
where it states If you have purchased an annual multi-trip policy, cover under Section 1 
(Cancellation) starts at the time that you book the trip or the first day of the period of cover 
as shown on your Schedule, whichever is later.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which provides a summary of the cover 
available under the policy, also states that Annual Multi Trip policies start from the date you 
request and end after 12 months.
The policy start date shown on the policy schedule is 5 September 2021. So, Mr and Mrs C 
had no cover for cancelling their trip for reasons arising before this date.
The reason Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip was because they both became unwell and 
tested positive for Covid-19. Their illness and subsequent positive tests for the virus 
occurred in the two days before the policy start date. This means Mr and Mrs Cs 
cancellation claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy with Great 
Lakes.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs comments surrounding the cover under the policy for the 
cancellation of trips as a result of a Covid-19 diagnosis and I agree that generally there is 
cover for this scenario. However, the part of the policy which provides Covid-19 cover is an 
extension to the cancellation section  and therefore the requirement for the event to have 
happened after the policy start date would still need to be met.
Mr and Mrs C have provided a screen shot of their online account through the insurance 
comparison website. This screen shot shows details of their policy and refers to the policy 
start date as 21 August 2021. Mr and Mrs C say that, as per the website, they did cancel 
after the start date of the policy. I appreciate them sending this information through and I 
have thought about this point very carefully. However, this doesnt make a difference to my 
outcome. Ill explain why.
This screen shot is from Mr and Mrs Cs account on the insurance comparison website, not 
from the insurer directly. So, I cannot hold Great Lakes responsible for information held on 
another organisations website nor can I make a finding against Great Lakes about this 
documentation. But I note that this mentions that information may be out of date and refers 
the policy holder to the policy schedule - the policy schedule information is where it states 
when the policy coverage starts. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C have been given enough 
clear information by Great Lakes to know when their cover started. Therefore, Im persuaded 
that Great Lakes has acted fairly when declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman