DRN-3267134
The complaint
Mr S complained that he thought the technician from Acasta European Insurance Company 
Limited (Acasta) was unprofessional and the service was lacking.
What happened
Mr S said the technician who visited his home to review his sofa made comments that made 
him feel intimidated and upset. He thought the technicians behaviour was unprofessional. 
Mr S said he thought Acastas complaints process was difficult and challenging and the 
communications were poor. Mr S thought this had a greater impact on him due to his 
vulnerable circumstances. Mr S would like Acasta to compensate him for his distress.
Acasta apologised but were unable to respond to all the comments that were alleged as it 
didnt know what these were. However, Acasta explained that when the technician became 
aware that hed visited Mr S home before and that experience was difficult, he shouldve 
removed himself from the situation. Acasta offered to send a different technician to review 
the claim and said it would review further evidence if it was provided.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Acasta had responded in a 
reasonable way to the complaint by apologising and offering for a different technician to visit. 
Mr S disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S agreed that the claim was in all likelihood rejected correctly, so I have 
focused on the complaint made against the technician for his unprofessional behaviour.
I understand that Mr S and the technician had come across paths previously when the 
technician attended Mr S home when representing a different insurer. I dont have the 
details of this interaction and I dont think the details are important. However, from what Ive 
read I can see it was a difficult exchange that couldve been remembered by both parties.
Whilst representing Acasta on this visit, I can see that there was dialogue that occurred 
between Mr S and the technician, which resulted in the technician referencing the previous 
encounter. Mr S said the technician shouldnt have identified himself as there was no need 
to do this. Mr S thought the technicians body language and gaze was intimidating. And he 
felt this was even more unreasonable due to his own vulnerable circumstances.
Mr S shared a voice recording of part of the encounter, where the technician can be heard 
saying, I think I remember you now. Acasta have said it thinks the technician shouldve 
removed himself from Mr S home at this point to avoid any issues and has apologised. I 
havent heard enough evidence on the recording to allow me to reach a decision that the 
technician was unreasonable in his approach with Mr S or treated him in an unfair way.
Mr S said he felt intimidated by the technicians body language and gaze. I dont doubt Mr S 
felt uncomfortable, especially as he was in his own home. I dont think he wouldve gone to 
the trouble of raising a complaint otherwise. However, I dont have any evidence to conclude 
exactly what happened and to decide whether I think the service provided was unreasonable 
or unprofessional.
Ive thought about what consequences this previous experience may have had for Mr S. I 
think he may have felt his claim was unfairly treated because of the prior experience. 
However, I have noted that Mr S thinks the decision reached on the claim was right. Ive also 
considered how Acasta reacted to the situation. It offered Mr S an appointment with another 
technician. In the circumstances, I think this was a reasonable approach, so I dont think Mr 
S has been treated unfairly.
I appreciate Mr S feels the impact on him was worse due to his vulnerability. He has 
explained briefly how this impacted him. However, as further evidence hasnt been provided 
to explain exactly what happened, I cant uphold this complaint. I think Acasta has acted 
fairly with the information it had. I also havent seen any significant failings with how Acasta 
handled the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman