DRN-2979403
Complaint
Mrs R has complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) acted irresponsibly in increasing her 
overdraft limit and also unfairly continued applying charges on her overdraft which caused 
her financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Rs complaint and thought TSB should have realised 
Mrs R wasnt in a position to be able to repay any sort of overdraft and so shouldnt have 
provided any further borrowing from June 2015. She said that it needed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Rs overdraft from this point as result. 
Despite being provided with a number of weeks to do so, TSB didnt respond. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think TSB acted unfairly when it provided 
Mrs R with an overdraft. By this point, it was evident Mrs R was already struggling 
financially. A cursory look at Mrs Rs statements in the period leading up to her overdraft 
being provided shows that she was already struggling to manage her money. She was 
regularly and repeatedly overdrawn. And the credits going into the account indicated Mrs R 
would struggle to sustainably repay an overdraft and certainly not for an amount anywhere 
near the limit of £3,000.00 she was eventually provided with.  
So I think that by June 2015 TSB shouldnt have provided Mrs R with an overdraft on the 
terms it did and instead treated her with forbearance, rather than increasing Mrs Rs limit and 
adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that TSB should have realised that Mrs R was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered her assistance. As TSB didnt react to Mrs Rs account usage and 
instead continued increasing her overdraft, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mrs R lost out because of what TSB did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Mrs R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from June 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mrs R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Rs credit 
file, it should backdate this to June 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give  
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. TSB Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman