DRN-3162162
The complaint
Mr E complained about the details shown on the motor policy schedule he received from 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy).
What happened
Mr E took out a policy for a classic car that he owned. Mr E completed an agreed valuation 
form with his broker as part of the application process for the policy. This was provided to 
Markerstudy. When Markerstudy issued his policy Mr E was unhappy his policy schedule 
showed an estimated value for his vehicle rather than an agreed value. Mr E was 
concerned this might disadvantage him should he make a claim on his policy. Mr E said he 
took the policy out on the basis it was an agreed value policy, so he wanted his policy 
schedule to properly reflect this.
Markerstudy said Our Underwriting department have confirmed that the policy is an agreed 
value one. Markerstudy explained further that there is an endorsement on the policy (E250) 
that is applied which states if we make payment for the total loss of the vehicle, the value of 
your vehicle will be the value shown on the policy schedule, provided proof of that value has 
been received and accepted by us. The amount payable is subject to any applicable policy 
excess.
Markerstudy said it couldnt re-issue the policy schedule with the wording amended as it was 
system generated and couldnt be overridden. It tried to assure Mr E that in the event of an 
incident resulting in a total loss, the value of his vehicle would be £32,000 as explained in 
the endorsement on his policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Markerstudy had provided 
enough assurance that it would honour the value stated on Mr Es policy schedule if a claim 
was made on his vehicle. Mr E disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr E wants absolute confidence that his policy means Markerstudy would pay 
out fully for a claim. As such, hes unhappy with the wording on his policy schedule. 
Unfortunately, Im going to disappointment Mr E, as I wont be upholding his complaint. The 
communications Markerstudy has provided in relation to this complaint, leave me in no doubt 
that the value it considers for Mr Es car for the purpose of this policy is £32,000 and Ill 
explain why.
I have seen several emails sent between the parties that show Markerstudy have confirmed 
the agreed value of the car to be £32,000. Markerstudy highlighted constraints in its 
systems that has prevented it from changing the details on the policy schedule. I can 
understand Mr E would feel better if the policy schedule was re-issued with slightly different 
wording. However, Markerstudy has said its not possible to do this. Im persuaded that if 
Markerstudy were able to re-issue the policy schedule, it would. So, I dont think Markerstudy 
has been unreasonable here, as its done everything it can to reassure Mr E of the value of 
the vehicle.
I have also considered the other points made by Markerstudy and I think its intent is clear to 
honour £32,000 as the value of the car. Markerstudy explained that there is an endorsement 
on the policy. I have reviewed this. The endorsement says the value of your vehicle will be 
the value shown on the policy schedule. The only value shown on the policy schedule is 
£32,000, so I think theres no doubt this is the value that applies to the car and would be the 
amount paid out subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy. So, I think 
Markerstudy has fairly detailed what the value of the car is on the policy schedule and I think 
it has done enough to explain this to Mr E.
I have also considered what Markerstudy said to our service. It said, in relation to the 
valuation, this is dealt with by the broker when the policy is taken out.as its agreed with 
them, we would just get told how much that value is to pay out. As Mr E completed the 
agreed valuation form with the broker that set the value of the vehicle at £32,000, I think it 
provides further evidence that supports Markerstudys position regarding the value of the 
vehicle. Therefore, I dont have any reason to doubt Markerstudy wouldnt honour this value 
when it came to settle a claim, if needed. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman