DRN-3771638
The complaint
Mr A complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Pi Financial Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things consistent, 
Ill refer mainly to Pi Financial.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr As former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr As employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr A was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Pi 
Financial which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr A was described as being in good health and at the time of the advice he had 
accrued around 27 years of pension benefits with the BSPS.
He was 47 years old, married with two non-dependent children. He and Mrs A lived in 
a home which they fully owned with no mortgage outstanding. Mrs A worked and also 
had a small DB pension of her own.
Mr A had recently taken voluntary redundancy and used the cash to pay down his 
liabilities. He had also taken on a new job by the time of the advice and earned 
around £35,000 pa. He had joined a new auto-enrollment pension scheme (which 
isnt included in this complaint).
After all their monthly household expenses, they had some disposable income left 
over. Mr and Mrs A had existing savings of £7,000. They had no other major assets 
or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr As BSPS was approximately 
£460,992. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Pi Financial set out its advice in a suitability report in October 2017. In this it advised Mr A to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Pi Financial 
said this would allow Mr A to achieve his objectives. Mr A accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. In 2021 Mr A complained to Pi Financial about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr A then referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, Pi Financial said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr A had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pi Financial's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Pi Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr As best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Pi Financial (December 2021). Ive carefully considered too, the various 
other responses made to the points contained within our investigators View.Having done all this, Im upholding Mr As complaint. 
Financial viability 
Pi Financial referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Pi Financial used the existing scheme (BSPS) for 
the critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
Pi Financial also now says that using critical yields isnt fair or relevant mainly because Mr A 
wanted flexibility. It says reliance solely on the critical yield is a poor way of assessing 
suitability when thinking about pension transfers. 
However, I disagree with Pi Financial on these points. The critical yield comparison was a 
requirement from the regulator at the time when advising clients on DB transfers. Its also 
important to point out that the critical yield comparison is only one of a number of different 
metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in my view, these all point one way 
 that Mr A was probably going to receive lower pension benefits overall, as a result of 
transferring to a type of personal pension plan. Pi Financial itself also referred several times 
in the advice to potential growth in the transferred funds, and I think it was trying to show Mr 
A that transferring away from his DB scheme was much better for growth. I explain further 
down how the critical yields dont support this.
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr As case, I think its important to point out 
that Pi Financial compared the benefits of the BSPS with transferring out, rather than using 
the BSPS2 for comparisons. We know BSPS was being stopped. Also, many weeks before 
this advice, which was dated 24 October 2017, BSPS members had been told that if the 
RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into 
the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had also been put on a microsite that had been 
set up to support BSPS members and more details of the BSPS2 had emerged by the time 
Pi Financial produced its suitability report. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that some changes were being proposed at that very 
point, but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar 
complaints to this one. And I think its also fair to say that despite some uncertainty at the 
time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most 
likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS). 
Having said all that, Pi Financial said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at 
the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 6.98% if Mr A took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If 
taking a tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 5.36%. However, Pi Financial also 
calculated the critical yield rates for an earlier retirement, at the age of 60. It did this because 
Mr A had apparently expressed a desire to retire early.
However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a long way off for Mr A and so I 
very much doubt whether retiring at 60 was anything more than something he just aspired to, 
rather than being part of a real plan. For the age of 60, the critical yields came out at 7.52% 
(no tax-free cash) and 5.34% (with tax free cash) respectively. 
I think all this needed a careful explanation, but I dont believe it was made clear enough 
what Pi Financial was actually saying. It said all the critical yield rates were, in the view of 
the adviser, achievable; but it didnt really explain why. In my view, this was an exaggeration. 
I say this with the following in mind. The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.4% per year for 17 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the 
critical yield figures Ive referred to above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower 
projection rate was 2%. Mr A had already told the adviser he might not need to take tax-free 
cash, so Pi Financial was apparently assuming growth of over 7% when it said the critical 
yields were achievable - and over such a long period in the future, this probably wasnt 
credible.
At the time, Pi Financial assessed Mr As attitude to risk (ATR) as level 6 out of 10 which it 
said was medium. But everything Ive seen shows Mr A had no experience of these types 
of money market investments. Although he filled out an ATR questionnaire, Mr A didnt 
have any relevant investment experience to call upon and despite having around £7,000 in 
savings, theres no evidence this was invested in anything other than a deposit type bank 
account. 
Pi Financial also said he wanted to grow his pension funds and implied he was willing to 
risk the capital to achieve this aim. However, I think this was an imprecise comment: I think 
almost everyone would wish to grow their pension fund to some degree. But in this case, the 
adviser only said, you want to achieve higher medium-long returns than cash. In fact, at the 
time, invested cash was growing by almost nothing, so out-growing zero wouldnt be that 
hard and could potentially be done by taking very, very little risks.
However, this didnt really change anything anyway. Even if I accept he had a medium 
ATR, I think a growth assumption at around the middle of the regulators projections and also 
close to the discount rate was most relevant here. This was around 4  to 5% and so still 
below the critical yield figures for the BSPS. I think this showed that achieving the critical 
yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out was highly unlikely. And from a financial 
perspective, there would be little point in transferring away from a DB scheme, to achieve 
lower overall benefits in retirement. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, Pi Financials own transfer analysis said that in 
order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by the existing scheme the estimated fund required (also known as the capital 
value) was £1,200,665. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no 
increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was 
£628,292. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in Pi Financials own analysis based on data the 
regulator required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far 
above Mr As CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the 
guaranteed pension Mr A could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather 
than him moving to a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Pi Financial also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. Pi Financial said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and Pi Financial itself says Mr A wouldnt have 
wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of 
charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended 
to Mr A, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Pi Financials 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr A would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, Pi Financial 
could have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr A when the situation with BSPS2 
became clear  we know this was available at the time. 
Ive also considered some projections Pi Financial used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr A well into retirement. I think its fair to say 
these were certainly not comparing like-with-like. What Pi Financial was showing Mr A were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. They 
relied on investment risk which I think was too high, factored in over many years and based 
on past performance.
Of course, according to Pi Financial, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Pi Financial said Mr A also had other reasons to transfer away, so 
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Ive considered with care everything Pi Financial has said about the rationale for transferring. 
And I think its fair to summarise the reasons it set out as being around greater flexibility and 
meeting some of the aspirations Mr and Mrs A had for retirement. In its response to our 
investigators View, for example, Pi Financial said it had looked at the overall financial 
position of [Mr A] and his family. It also said, advice was provided on the information 
available at the time and the pros and cons were weighed up to assess whether a transfer 
was suitable. It was agreed, the transfer was suitable to meet the needs and the desires of 
[Mr A] which he now enjoys through pension freedoms.
I do understand the points being made - that the recommended transfer to a personal 
pension plan was much more based on Mr As wider objectives. So, I have used all the 
documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise the following themes as 
supporting the recommendation to transfer away:
Pi Financial implied that Mr A wanted to retire at the age of 60.
Pi Financial said hed be able to have more flexibility and control over his pension 
going forward. This included the flexibility to change his income in the future to suit 
his needs.
Pi Financial said he could more flexibly pass on the benefits from a personal plan, 
potentially tax-free, if he died.He wanted to break ties with British Steel.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr A approached Pi Financial for advice because of the 
uncertainties he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
In my view, the adviser portrayed the DB scheme opportunity Mr A had with the proposed 
BSPS2 very much in the negative dimension. The impression given by the adviser was 
strongly that transferring to the BSPS2 was somehow too restrictive for Mr A and unsuitable 
for him. I say this because references were made by the adviser to the new DB scheme 
being underfunded. Whilst this may have been factually correct, recent injections of cash 
had taken place and it certainly isnt unusual for large DB schemes to be funded at rates 
below 100%.
References were also made to the annual uplift in the benefits paid each year with DB 
pensions. The adviser told Mr A that over 99% of his current pension provision was uplifted 
using the retail prices index (RPI). But it said the new BSPS2, if he transferred, would see 
100% of his pension provision uplifted only by the consumer prices index (CPI). The adviser 
then went on to explain why the CPI was much less valuable. But what the adviser left out 
was that if he transferred to a personal pension plan, there were no guarantees at all that his 
annual pension would be uplifted by any amount  it could quite obviously even fall in value.
So, I think all this was mis-leading. Overall I think the adviser focused heavily on transferring 
away, rather than starting by assessing whether BSPS2 could meet Mr As retirement needs 
and objectives. The adviser just promoted the more flexible arrangements which Mr A would 
find with a personal pension plan. 
However, I think its important to specifically focus for a moment here on Mr As 
comparatively young age by pension standards. He was only 47 and in good health and Mrs 
A was slightly younger.  The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr A  understandably - had no 
concrete plans for his retirement. He had only referred to the possibility of retiring at 60, 
which was clearly aspirational rather than definite. With two children in their early twenties, 
they might not have been financially dependent on their parents, but I think Mr and Mrs A 
would have anticipated helping their children financially to some degree. At the very least, 
this provided uncertainty about when retiring realistically might be possible. 
This underscores that any formal retirement plans, viewed from the age of 47, were probably 
still some way off. The adviser should have known this. There was still over 17 years left to 
when Mr A would be actually contemplating retiring if using his NRA of 65. And even if I did 
use the age of 60, theres simply no way he should have been advised to irreversibly move 
away from a DB scheme just yet, in his circumstances. Doing so involved an investment risk 
 and as Ive shown above - would likely mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr A probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he told the adviser could only ever have been general retirement 
aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply far too early 
to speculate about this.
Flexibility and control
In a similar vein, Pi Financial basically said hed be able to select the timing and type of 
benefits taken at retirement and also vary his retirement income. However, I cant see that Mr A required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser 
suggested. In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by Pi Financial. I therefore think this 
was no more than a stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out 
to a personal plan. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr A required changing how 
his retirement benefits ought to be paid. He already had started a new and more flexible DC 
pension with his new job. I accept this DC pension was only six months old, but it was being 
contributed towards by both Mr A and his employer. Mr A would have been able to increase 
contributions in the years ahead if he felt this was warranted and of course, he still had over 
17 years left to run (over 12 years if he did eventually retire early). So, this secondary 
pension would have contributed towards Mr A obtaining any flexibility he might have needed 
in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr A wouldnt want to continue with deferred 
membership of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally 
intended. Ive noted the same adviser recommended to Mrs A that her DB pension provided 
certainty for retirement, so I dont see why Mr A was told effectively the opposite. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr A could have been in an agreeable 
position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable value. 
This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which 
tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees 
also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On the other 
hand, hed have also built up a new DC scheme over a still significant period of time  up to 
17 years. So, if Mr A ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use the 
latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr A had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr A was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr A himself had no experience of these types of money market investments and I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing around £461,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr A 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Pi Financial itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. Of course, its 
always difficult to think about what one might need in todays money and to then assess 
whether the projected retirement income would be enough to live on. But in my view, Mr As 
projected DB scheme annual pension was a very reasonable income when comparing 
against what he said he might need in retirement. Ive already explained the unpredictability 
of assessing retirement needs so far in advance and at such a young age. Mr A hazarded a 
guess that he might have needed around £2,500 per month in todays money when 
retirement came about. But as Ive said, this was no more than an educated guess and not 
underpinned by analysis. 
Pi Financial said that if retiring at 65, Mr A could expect an annual pension of around 
£28,168 with the existing DB scheme. Even if I were to only use the estimated pension 
calculated for the earlier retirement, at aged 60, this was still £18,499 per year. And it 
certainly isnt unreasonable to say that by then, Mr A could have built up a meaningful DC 
fund in his new pension after he and his employer had been contributing for quite a few 
years. We know Mrs A also had her own deferred DB pension. 
So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr As pension entitlements wouldnt have met his 
and Mrs As anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer away from the DB 
scheme. These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at around the very time 
this advice was being sought. I dont think Pi Financial adequately explained these things to 
Mr A as its advice simply focussed on him transferring away and into a personal pension 
arrangement to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr As circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to potentially retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to. Doing this 
from the position of BSPS2 was possible  there would have been an actuarial reduction 
involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also had a smaller second DC 
pension, and Mrs A had a small pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse if Mr A died. Mr A was married and so in my view this represented a 
good benefit. But again, the adviser portrayed this in a negative light and said he could die 
early and Mrs A would only get 50% of his BSPS pension. Conversely, the adviser told Mr A 
that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a personal pension if he died, potentially tax-
free, to anyone he nominated.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr A might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pi Financial explored 
to what extent Mr A was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
Mr A was only 47 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr A had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 60 was at least mentioned  Pi Financials defence of 
this complaint is effectively predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a healthy male retiring at 60 would likely have many years ahead in which he 
would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to someone.
I think life insurance was discussed in this case and Ive noted that whilst employed, Mr A 
had some death in service protection. But again, the adviser failed to present all the relevant 
options about insurance to Mr A, because they were wholly focussed on transferring him 
away from a DB scheme and into a personal pension plan. The adviser focussed on Mrs A 
losing something from a financial perspective if Mr A passed away and she only received a 
50% annual spouses pension. I dont think this was good advice or advice that was in Mr As 
best interests.
I say this because Mr A died, the spouses pension with BSPS2 was guaranteed for Mrs As 
whole life. Also, at 47 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have still been a 
reasonably affordable product for Mr A if he really did insist on leaving a lump-sum (rather 
than an annual pension) legacy for Mrs A, or indeed anyone else such as their two children. 
It also doesnt appear that Pi Financial took into account the fact that Mr A could have 
nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other DC scheme. Therefore, to that 
end, Mr A already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him. In these circumstances, Mrs A would also receive a lump-sum upon Mr As death, which he 
seemed to find attractive.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr As situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Pi Financial said Mr A wanted to break ties with British Steel and it provided this as part of 
the rationale for recommending a transfer away. However, Mr A denies he wanted to break 
ties and I agree with him. Theres simply no evidence this was a genuine reason to transfer 
to a personal pension plan. The box Mr A appears to have ticked in the fact-find which 
relates to this point is a pre-populated one and I think this waters down its relevance. 
Even so, I can understand that when Mr A met with Pi Financial he may have been 
concerned about the overall financial stability of the BSPS pension. Lots of his former 
colleagues at the time were considering transferring out of the scheme and he may have 
worried that his pension could end up in the PPF. If the scheme did end up moving to the 
PPF, I think the adviser should have explained that this was not as concerning as Mr A 
thought. He was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed, the benefits available to him 
through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension plan. I dont think that this was 
properly explained to him. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Pi 
Financials recommendation to Mr A to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Pi Financial recommended that Mr A invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr A and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear 
advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised not to transfer 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. 
Pi Financial entered into this advice by portraying the BSPS and BSPS2 in a negative way. 
Instead of assessing whether Mr A might meet his retirement objectives by becoming a 
member of BSPS2, the adviser focussed wholly on transferring away. 
This meant Mr A was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows he was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. 
I also dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. The implication that Mr A was certain to retire early wasnt borne out by the 
evidence. Neither was his apparent needs for flexibility and control of his funds, moving 
forward. These things werent properly defined and like the advice around death benefits, 
they represented nothing more than stock objectives used to justify the transfer-out 
recommendation. So, I dont think it was in Mr As best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. I also don't think 
that it was in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. Doing this wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr A would have retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he really needed to. The annual indexation 
of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Pi Financial should have advised Mr A to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr A would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Pi Financial disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mr A, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr A to transfer out, and I think Mr A relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr A would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Pi Financials advice. I say this because Mr A was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Pi Financial had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Pi Financial should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pi Financials unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Pi Financial 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Pi Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Pi Financial should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr A and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on the schemes 
normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr As 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pi Financial should:calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts Pi Financials offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr A for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Pi Financial may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
This pension at the time represented nearly all of Mr As retirement provision. I believe the 
uncertainty and worrying impact of this unsuitable advice caused him significant distress and 
inconvenience. I therefore also order Pi Financial Ltd to pay an additional £300 to Mr A.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Pi Financial 
Ltd to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated 
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman