DRN-4036134
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc made multiple errors when he called to close 
his account. 
What happened
On 24 October 2022, Mr M called Capital One and asked them to close his credit card 
account. 
During the call the advisor said that no spending had ever occurred on the card, which was 
incorrect. They then asked Mr M whether he wanted to set up a payment plan to pay the 
balance and asked what would be affordable for him. This was also incorrect as Mr M had 
paid off the balance earlier in the month. 
Mr M said he was also told he would receive a final statement, but this never arrived. 
Mr M complained on 14 November and said that multiple serious errors had been made. He 
was worried that the advisor was seeing something different to what he was. It also made 
him worry about whether he had actually paid off his balance.
Mr M said he was financially and emotionally affected by the errors and wanted an apology 
and compensation to put things right. 
Capital One apologised for the errors made. They explained in their complaint response 
dated 29 November that the balance on Mr Ms card was in fact zero and they could see it 
had been used in the past. They also explained that when an account is closed, no further 
statements are sent, but apologised for any inconvenience and agreed to send Mr M a copy 
of all of his existing statements. For the mistakes made, they credited Mr Ms account with 
£50. 
Mr M didnt accept the £50 and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that while mistakes were made which caused Mr M worry 
and inconvenience, he felt the offer of £50 was a fair amount of compensation. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
It isnt in dispute here that Capital One made multiple errors during their call with Mr M in 
October 2022. What I need to decide is whether the compensation offered is enough to 
cover the inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
At this service, we always take each consumers individual circumstances into account when 
thinking about how much compensation is fair. Mr M has explained that he was financially 
and emotionally affected by the errors made by Capital One as they made him worry and 
feel concerned that he hadnt paid off his balance. 
I can imagine this must have been a stressful time for Mr M, however I do believe the £50 is 
a fair amount for Capital One to offer as while errors were made, they didnt cause him any 
loss and Capital One responded quickly to apologise. £50 is also in line with what I would 
have recommended had nothing been paid at all. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Capital One to pay anything further. I know this isnt the 
outcome Mr M wanted, but I hope I have explained why I feel the £50 is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman