DRN-1489165
 
The complaint
Mr A complains above the service he received from Assurant General Insurance Limited 
when his iPad needed repairing, and that the repairs weren't carried out to a satisfactory 
standard.
What happened
Mr A has gadget insurance with Assurant. In September 2019 his iPad was damaged, the 
screen was cracked and the home button wasn't working. A £75 excess is payable for each 
claim.
The iPad was collected from Mr A's work address for repair. He complains that it was 
returned to his work address, rather than his home address and that he wasn't told it had 
been returned. Which meant he was without his device for longer than he needed to be.
He also complains that the repairs weren't carried out to a satisfactory standard. The 
replacement screen was fragile, it didn't fit properly, and it extended over the home button, 
which still wasn't working. When he tried to use the device for the first time, the glass around 
the home button cracked, hurting his finger. 
Assurant have said there was no agreement in place about where the iPad was to be 
returned to. It was delivered to place it was picked up, which is their standard practice. But 
they accept the courier didn't let Mr A know it had been returned, and they paid him £20 
compensation for this. 
Assurant don't accept that the repairs were of poor quality. They say the device passed a 
quality check, which means it met the manufacturers specifications before it was returned to 
Mr A. And they say he damaged it with his finger, invalidating the claims warranty. So he'd 
have to make a new claim, and pay a further £75 excess for a further repair.
Mr A was unhappy and complained to our service. Our investigator thought it was 
reasonable for the device to be returned to the address it was collected from, especially as 
Mr A didn't make any specific request for its return. He agreed that the courier should have 
let him know the device had been returned, but he felt the £20 compensation paid for this 
was reasonable.
He said that Assurant had provided information to show a quality check had been carried 
out, and photos appear to show the screen had been repaired. But there's little detail of what 
the quality check entailed or of what repairs had been carried out. And Mr A had provided a 
photo of the damage, showing this was centred around the home button, in a way that 
suggests it happened when someone pressed it. 
He also said he appreciated the Assurant said Mr A had the iPad at home for three or four 
days before he informed them of the damage. And they say they don't know how he treated 
it during this time. And he believed what Mr A had said, that he didn't try the device until the 
weekend after it was returned.Our investigator didn't think it was reasonable to say Mr A pressing the home button 
constituted damage. And as there was nothing to suggest Mr A used the device in a way he 
shouldn't, our investigator thought the damage was likely to be due to poor quality repairs. 
So he recommended the device be repaired again, under the original claim, with no new 
claim being registered and no further excess being paid.
Assurant didn't accept our investigator's opinion as they said their records showed the 
iPad was correctly repaired, so they don't believe they should cover his device under the 
warranty of the previous repair as there was further damage. And they questioned why Mr A  
didn't advise them of his concerns about the quality of repairs, as soon as he received the 
device, rather than waiting until further damage occurred before contacting them.
So the case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've listened to the call Mr A made to Assurant to arrange the repair of his iPad. He asked for 
it to be collected from his workplace, and didn't mention it being returned to an alternative 
address. So I think it was reasonable for Assurant to return the device to where it had been 
collected from. Assurant told Mr A that their courier would advise him when the device was 
being returned. This didn't happen, so he wasn't aware it had been returned for a couple of 
days. But I think the £20 compensation Assurant have paid Mr A for this is reasonable.
Assurant don't accept that the iPad wasn't repaired to a satisfactory standard. And they've 
told us the device passed a quality check before it was returned to Mr A. In support of 
they've provided a blank copy of their quality checklist, and they've said the device passed 
all these checks. But there's no detail of how the check was carried out, what repairs were 
carried out, what was tested, or confirmation that the home button had been fixed and the 
device was working.
Assurant have provided photos of the device which appear to show the screen has been 
repaired. The policy terms and conditions say 'repairs may be carried out using readily 
available parts'. But whatever parts were used to repair the screen and the home button, I 
would expect these to be of a satisfactory quality. It's not clear, from the single photo 
provided of the front of the device, whether the replacement screen fits properly. 
Mr A has provided a photo of the damage, which shows it's centred around the home button. 
I think that this suggests the damage was caused when the home button was pressed. Mr A 
has told us, and I accept, that the screen cracked when he attempted to use the device for 
the first time after it was returned. Assurant have said Mr A didn't report the damage 
immediately, and they don't know how the device was used in the days he had it at home 
before contacting them. But I accept what Mr A has told us, that he didn't try the device until 
the weekend after it was returned, and the damage occurred when he first tried to use it.
There's nothing to suggest Mr A did anything more than try to use his device as normal. So 
I'm persuaded that the damage was a result of poor quality repairs, and this is the reason 
the device was damaged again.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr A's complaint against 
Assurant General Insurance LimitedTo put things right I require Assurant to repair Mr A's device again, under the original claim. 
No new claim needs to be registered by Mr A and he shouldn't be charged a second excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
ombudsman
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman