DRN-2566699
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim she made on 
her furniture protection policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. Mrs A has been 
represented by another party in bringing this complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
Mrs A throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs A purchased a leather sofa from a high street retailer in 2017, and at the same time 
purchased a leather protection policy to cover her for any accidental damage or staining of 
the leather.
In April 2020, Mrs A made a claim for damage to one of the cushions. Great Lakes declined 
her claim. It said the inspection it carried out on the damage found it was caused by wear 
and tear. It said damage caused by wear and tear was excluded from the policy.
Mrs A complained to Great Lakes. She said the person who carried out the inspection told 
them the claim would be covered. And Mrs A didnt think the damage was caused by wear 
and tear, because if it was, more than one cushion would have been affected.
Great Lakes didnt change its decision, so Mrs A brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs As complaint be upheld. He thought Great Lakes 
was entitled to rely on the report it was provided after the inspection and thought this report 
made it clear the damage was caused by wear and tear. He thought Mrs As policy was clear 
in saying she wasnt covered for damage caused by wear and tear. He thought Great Lakes 
was acting fairly and reasonably and in line with Mrs As policy when not paying for this 
claim.
Mrs A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
she was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mrs As policy sets out what Great Lakes will cover her for, and what it wont. The policy 
says Mrs A is covered if her sofa is stained or accidentally damaged. But the policy clearly 
states she not covered for any damage caused by wear and tear. Im satisfied Great Lakes 
only need to pay for claims covered by the policy, so the key question here is whether or not 
the damage was caused by wear and tear.
After Mrs A made her claim, Great Lakes sent an inspector round to look at the damage and 
determine its most likely cause. This report clearly says the damage is caused by wear and 
tear. I understand Mrs A has said that this inspector told her that her sofa would be repaired. 
But this isnt what the report says. The report says the sofa can be repaired, not that it will 
be.
I understand too that Mrs A disagrees that the damage was caused by wear and tear, and I 
can understand why. But Im more persuaded by the report. That report was carried out by 
what can reasonably be seen as an expert in their field. And while I understand Mrs A 
doesnt agree with their findings, Ive not seen any other comparable report to show the 
damage wasnt caused by wear and tear. Im satisfied that Great Lakes acted reasonably by 
relying on that reports findings.
In summary, Great Lakes is entitled to rely on the report provided by the inspector who 
inspected the damage caused to Mrs As sofa. That report clearly says the damage was 
caused by wear and tear. And damage caused by wear and tear is excluded from being 
covered by Mrs As policy. Therefore, Im satisfied Great Lakes acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions when it declined Mrs As claim. And Im satisfied that decision is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstance of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman