DRN-3167330
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) did not accept all of his claim 
for damage to his car on his motor insurance policy after an accident, and that it further 
damaged his car when investigating the cause of a leak.
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.  
What happened
Mr B was involved in a car accident in March 2020 when he was hit from behind by another 
driver who admitted fault.
Mr B made a claim to RSA straightaway but due to the pandemic lockdown his car was not 
taken in for repair until June 2020. The damage was to the bumper of the car and he was 
still able to drive it after the accident. 
After he had made his initial claim to RSA Mr B noticed further damage to the car, a water 
leak inside, and so he notified RSA as he believed that the leak was related to the accident. 
When the car went in for the repair to the bumper the engineer investigated the leak and 
found that it was coming from the rear washer pipe. The engineer contacted Mr B and said 
that it was not related to the accident and that this was a warranty issue and that Mr B would 
need to contact the manufacturer. Mr B disagreed and said that the way the engineer spoke 
to him at this time was disgraceful. The leak was not repaired. 
When Mr B had his car returned he noticed that there was further damage to the inside of 
the car that had been caused whilst investigating the leak, so he complained to RSA.
RSA said that the damage was unavoidable as its engineer had needed to remove the fabric 
roof covering, known as the headlining, inside the car to investigate if the leak was caused 
by damage from the accident. It offered £75 compensation to Mr B for the poor customer 
service received from the garage. 
Mr B complained to RSA as he believed the damage to the rear washer pipe was caused by 
the accident and that they should repair it, but RSA confirmed that they would not cover this 
as its experts had confirmed that this damage to the rear washer pipe was not caused by the 
accident. Mr B wants to see the report of how it came to this decision.
RSA said that if Mr B took his car back to the garage that they would clean and tidy up the 
headlining inside the car.
As Mr B was not happy with RSA, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked in to the case and decided that RSA had made a fair decision not to 
cover the damage to the leaking pipe as an engineer had confirmed the damage wasnt 
linked to the accident. 
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three main points in this complaint, and I shall address them individually below
Partial decline of claim 
Mr B believes that the damage to the rear washer pipe was related to the accident.  
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant
determine how the damage occurred. Instead what we look at is the information the 
insurance company relied on to make its decision.
In this case RSA appointed a garage to conduct an inspection of the external damage to the 
car and the internal leak. The garage assessed the extent of the impact and the area of 
damage sustained on Mr Bs car and during the inspection found a split in the rear washer 
pipe. After the inspection the garage referred their findings to RSAs in-house engineers. 
RSAs in-house engineers reviewed the estimate compiled for damage to the car and the 
extent of the impact, which was a light impact to the bumper. It also reviewed the images of 
the headlining and the water damage. 
As the tailgate of Mr Bs car was not affected by the accident the RSA in-house engineers 
decision was that the damage to the rear washer pipe was not caused by the accident and 
so it did not consider the split in the rear washer pipe at the top of the tailgate as part of his 
claim. 
I am satisfied that RSA used an engineers professional opinion to make its decision to 
decline this part of the claim. There is not a specific report available as Mr B requests in his 
complaint, the decision was made based on the evidence available, including the images, 
estimates for repair, extent of impact and from phone calls between RSA and the appointed 
garage. 
To support a claim under his car warranty for the broken rear washer pipe, Mr B has 
requested evidence from RSA that it found the damage to the rear washer pipe to be non-
accident related.
I think that in the circumstances this is a reasonable request and RSA should provide a letter 
that Mr B can give to his warranty provider that details the reasons it came to the conclusion 
that it was not accident related damage that caused the split in the rear washer pipe. This 
should include reference to it removing the headlining to conduct its investigations.
Further damage
On review of the evidence provided I can seen that there is water damage inside the car and 
there is evidence of the headlining being moved, which RSA accept was caused by the garage engineer having to remove the headlining material during the investigation in to the 
cause of the damage.
I can understand that Mr B feels it is unfair that he may have to pay for repairs to the 
damage made by the garage to the headlining. However when this damage was reported to 
the garage it offered to clean off the dirty marks and adjust the headlining if Mr B were to 
return to the repair centre. 
Mr B has, to date, not returned for the headlining to be cleaned and adjusted. 
Customer service.
Mr B said that the manner in which the engineer spoke to him was disgraceful. He said the 
engineeer was rude and when Mr B  asked for clarification on why the engineer thought that 
the accident had not caused the damage the engineer was patronising, and also dismissive 
when Mr B offered his own view.
RSA have accepted that this was unprofessional and not what it would expect for its 
customers. It apologised and offered £75 in compensation for the poor customer service. Mr 
B has now accepted this offer and RSA should organise payment of this if it has not already  
been paid.
I believe that RSA made a fair decision not to cover the damage to the leaking rear washer 
pipe so I intend not uphold the complaint. 
  
However I intend to tell RSA to issue Mr B with a letter, as described above, that he can use 
to support a claim under his warranty for the split rear washer pipe.
Responses to my provisional decision 
RSA did not respond.
Mr B responded on 3 November 2021 and said
He still maintained the collision was more severe than the damage suggests and the 
washer pipe could easily have been damaged by the force transferred through the 
vehicle from the collision.
He wants his vehicle repaired in full and believes RSA are liable if they cannot prove with 
evidence the damage was not caused by the accident.
That the method used by the garage to remove the headlining inside the car was not 
acceptable and he would not go back to a company that he believed is not competent for 
it to be tidied up and said that they were no longer operating.
Providing a letter to the warranty provider is now of little value as it expired in March 
2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr B has provided any new evidence about the leaking pipe that requires me to 
change the details as set out in my provisional decision. As I have explained our service 
cannot determine how the damage occurred. I looked at the information RSA relied on to 
make its decision. In this case RSA used images, repair estimates, looked at the extent of 
impact on the car and discussed the findings with the repair garage. I am satisfied that this is an acceptable amount of evidence to use to make its decision.   
RSA said that they will rectify the crease and dirty marks to the car headlining material made 
by the garage that removed it. As this business is no longer operating then RSA and Mr B 
should identify an alternative garage, accessible to Mr B, where this repair can be 
completed.  
Although Mr B has said in his response that his car warranty expired in March 2021 I can 
see within evidence he has submitted that the warranty company were still engaging with 
him in July 2021. The letter that RSA will provide should add value to any further discussions 
with them, although as the car warranty is not part of this complaint we cannot confirm this.
I dont think Mr B has said anything that requires me to change the details as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I partially uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to provide a letter for Mr B to give to his 
warranty provider the reasons it came to the conclusion that it was not accident related 
damage that caused the split in the rear washer pipe. This letter should include reference to 
it removing the headlining to conduct its investigations.
If not already paid, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must organise payment of the £75  
compensation for the poor customer service given to Mr B by the garage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman