DRN-4137680
The complaint
Ms U complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold her a reviewable whole of life policy.
What happened
Ms U was advised to take out a reviewable whole of life assurance policy in 1990. The policy 
was set up on joint lives covering both Ms U and her ex-husband  it was later assigned to 
Ms U solely. The policy cost £26 per month and provided a sum assured of £60,422.
Ms Us policy was reviewed after ten years and then again every five years. In 2015, the 
sum assured had to reduce to around £58,000 unless Ms U opted to take out a top up policy. 
In 2020, Ms Us sum assured was reduced to around £34,000 and she complained. Ms U 
said she wanted a policy for life and understood this to be guaranteed.
Phoenix upheld Ms Us complaint. It said that whilst it felt Ms U wanted a whole of life policy, 
it didnt have anything to show why she was sold a reviewable policy. It gave her the 
following options:
- Convert the policy to a non-reviewable policy from inception. The premium would 
remain the same at £26 per month and it would provide guaranteed cover for 
£26,452. The surrender value was around £7,000.
- Convert the policy to a paid up policy which means no further premiums would be 
payable and the sum assured would be £13,618.
- Surrender the policy.
Phoenix also offered £50 compensation for the time it took to investigate Ms Us complaint.
Ms U was unhappy with these options and wanted the higher cover guaranteed. She 
referred her complaint to this service. Our Investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. 
She said that she believed it was more likely Ms U chose the sum assured rather than the 
figure being premium led. As such, she felt she should be put in the position as if shed taken 
a non-reviewable whole of life plan for £60,422 cover from inception. The Investigator felt 
Phoenix should absorb the costs in doing so and Ms U can pay higher premiums of £57.59 
per month going forward.
Phoenix disagreed. It said that it felt the sum assured was premium-led at the time, and that 
Ms U got the maximum amount of life cover she could afford with her budget. It didnt think it 
was reasonable to assume shed have paid more than double the premium in 1990 for the 
same level of cover. It asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
I sent out my provisional decision on 17 April 2023. In this I explained that I thought 
Phoenixs offer was fair and reasonable although I felt it should pay more compensation to 
Ms U for the distress and inconvenience caused. The reasoning for my decision is copied 
below and forms part of this decision:
Ive reached a different outcome to our Investigator. I think the offer put forward by Phoenix 
is fair and reasonable but that it ought to pay more compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Ms U. Ill explain why.
Phoenix has concluded that this policy was mis-sold because it didnt have the evidence to 
suggest why Ms U was sold a reviewable policy, nor could it evidence that she was told 
about the reviewable nature. When its concluded that someone was mis-sold a policy, wed 
look to see what position theyd be in had the advice not been unsuitable. Thats what Ive 
thought about here.
Ms U has confirmed that at the time of the advice she was keen to get protection for her 
whole life. She had two young children and a mortgage. Shed recently suffered a 
bereavement which made her think about life assurance. So, I think its likely shed have 
always taken a policy which was supposed to run for the whole of her life.
Ms U has told us she and her ex-husband were financially secure, and werent sure why the 
level of cover was selected but felt it was the right level. Ive thought carefully about this. The 
premium shes been paying is £26. I think its likely that this was the budget Ms U had at the 
time, and she was sold a policy that provided the maximum amount of cover for that budget. 
The level of cover Ms U had at the start wasnt a round number, and the policy she was sold 
gave her the maximum amount of cover possible for her £26 per month premium. For this 
reason, Im persuaded in this case that the recommendation was driven by the premium.
Its clear Ms U wasnt expecting her sum assured to reduce to the extent that it has, although 
its worth noting that if this policy was suitable for her needs, this is something that wouldve 
always happened. The policy she wants for the price she wants doesnt exist. And if we felt 
that shed have done something differently earlier had she been aware that significant 
changes could happen in the future wed likely consider whether shed have surrendered the 
policy earlier. But Ms U has made it clear she wants a policy in place. And I find it unlikely 
shed have got guaranteed cover for her whole life for any less than she was already paying.
Phoenix has offered to convert Ms Us policy into a non-reviewable policy. It worked out that 
had she taken this at that start, it would provide a sum assured of £26,452 for the same 
premium. I do appreciate that Ms U now would like to pay a higher premium for higher cover 
but to say this was reasonable, Id need to be persuaded shed have taken this at the outset. 
But Ive not seen enough to persuade me that in 1990, with two young children, a mortgage 
and a very different economical climate, that Ms U wouldve paid more than double the 
premium that she did for the same level of cover  albeit non-reviewable. 
I also dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Phoenix to absorb the costs of this for 
thirty years either. I am mindful also that Ms U hasnt reached out to ask Phoenix to increase 
her cover at either of her failed reviews in 2015 and 2020. Essentially, Im not persuaded 
that Ms U wouldve taken a non-reviewable policy for the same level of cover in 1990 for 
more than double the premium she was happy to pay. And had she done so, I dont think it 
would be unreasonable for her to pay Phoenix the shortfall of premiums over the last thirty 
years in this case.
As such, I think the offer that Phoenix has put forward is fair and reasonable  and I intend to 
direct it to continue to provide Ms U with the option to convert her policy into a non-
reviewable policy from inception. It will be up to Ms U to determine what shed like to do 
going forward.
I can see Phoenix has offered £50 compensation for how long it took to respond to Ms Us 
complaint. Whilst I cannot consider complaint handling as part of my investigation, I can look 
at whether Phoenixs error has caused Ms U trouble and upset. Phoenix has accepted that it 
didnt think reviews were properly explained to Ms U at the time she was sold this policy. So 
when she received her 2020 review asking for significant changes to be made I can imagine 
this caused her a great deal of shock and upset. For this, I intend to direct Phoenix to award 
£250 compensation.
Responses to the provisional decision
Phoenix accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comments. Ms U 
made some additional comments. Specifically she said:
- The Ombudsman has presumed that the policy was premium driven however they were in a strong financial position
- The outcome has been reached without information surrounding Ms Us finances
- The decision to take out cover was based on life experiences
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as set out in my provisional decision  an 
extract of which is above and forms part of this decision.
I dont doubt what Ms U has told us about her and her husbands financial position at the 
time. But I had to determine, on balance, what I thought happened at the time on the 
available information. And looking at the sum assured and premium, I continue to believe its 
more likely Ms U was looking to get the maximum amount of cover for a premium of £26. 
When I refer to £26 being Ms Us budget at the time this doesnt mean she couldnt afford 
more, but that I believe its likely this is what was set aside at the time of sale  which was 
over 30 years ago.
Ms U hasnt provided any additional information to show me that shed have paid more than 
double for the same benefit at the time to ensure it was non-reviewable. So, my findings 
remain the same on this point.
Overall, I think the offer put forward by Phoenix is fair and reasonable and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to suggest that Ms U wouldve paid more than double at the 
point of sale for a non-reviewable policy. My decision therefore remains the same as set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Phoenixs original offer is fair and reasonable. It should now ensure the offer is open for 
Ms U to convert her policy into a non-reviewable whole of life policy for £26 per month with 
cover of £26,452.
Phoenix should also pay Ms U £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Phoenix Life Limited to 
carry out the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman