DRN-2318987
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Financial Services 
(VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Z acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr Z. The car here was a 
little less than two years old and had already completed about 47,000 miles. So, I think its 
fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might have already 
suffered wear and tear. But I dont think a reasonable person would consider the issues Mr Z 
has reported to be satisfactory on a car of this age and mileage.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Ive seen messages from Mr Z to the dealership complaining about the satellite navigation 
not working in November 2019 and complaining about the dent in the quarter panel from as 
early as September 2019. He complained about the paintwork and trim panels in January 
2020. As all of those faults were reported within the first six months the onus was therefore 
on VWFS to demonstrate the faults Mr Z complained of were not there from the beginning.
I dont think VWFS have been able to do that. The independent inspector confirmed:
the front door, both rear doors and the front bumper had been repainted to a poor 
standard;
there were a lot of fault codes that needed further investigation;
the lane assist didnt work;
the cameras on the wing mirrors didnt work;
the door trim panels all had yellow markings on them that would suggest they werent 
original equipment.
I dont think its fair to suggest all these issues should have been identified by Mr Z when he 
inspected the car before supply. I can see the independent inspector used a paint thickness 
gauge to identify some of the paintwork issues and I dont think they were particularly 
obvious to the untrained eye.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply. So, I think VWFS should now be given this opportunity.
 
Putting things right
VWFS should arrange to have the paintwork issues put right. The independent inspector 
said that paint readings on the offside were not consistent with the rest of the vehicle. So, 
the repairs completed by VWFS will need to resolve that issue and to remedy the poor 
paintwork on all of the body panels the inspector identified.  The dealership and Mr Z have 
both referred to a problem with a dent on the near side quarter panel so, for avoidance of 
doubt, the business should ensure that is resolved to Mr Zs satisfaction.
Theyll also need to fix the lane assist and to ensure the cameras are working on the wing 
mirrors as Mr Z reported these issues within six months, and Ive not seen evidence that 
contradicts the assumption the legislation asks us to make that the faults were present when 
the car was supplied to Mr Z.
The inspector identified many fault codes present in the system. These will need to be 
reviewed by the business and rectified unless there is evidence that any were not present or 
developing when the car was supplied. 
Mr Z has complained about the satellite navigation system not working. The independent 
inspector wasnt able to replicate that fault. Ive seen that he turned the system on and off 
several times without a fault occurring and that he was able to successfully program the unit 
to navigate to a destination. As a fault hasnt been identified it wouldnt be fair to ask VWFS 
to fix it. They should however, investigate the fault Mr Z has reported and if they can 
replicate the issue they should resolve it.
I note that the independent inspector identified that the door trims were not original 
equipment. He didnt suggest there was anything wrong with the panels, but I can see Mr Z 
has complained there are holes in the panels that have been coated in yellow paint. I think 
the yellow marks should be removed but Im not persuaded to tell VWFS to replace these 
panels as I think this sort of issue would have been clearly noticeable when Mr Z inspected 
the car before he took receipt of it. Mr Z has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to escalate his complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and hes had to make himself 
available for the independent inspection. I understand this issue must have been frustrating 
for him and I think in the circumstances VWFS should pay him £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
arrange to have the paintwork issues put right in line with my comments above;
fix the lane assist and wing mirror cameras;
review the fault codes present at no cost to Mr Z and fix any issues that are identified 
in this review and are likely to have been present or developing when the car was 
supplied;
review the fault Mr Z has reported with the satellite navigation system and if any fault 
can be found, repair it;
pay Mr Z £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any yellow marks on the door trims;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Zs credit file in relation to 
these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman