DRN-4131351
The complaint
Ms S, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement (agreement) she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2020 Ms S acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Ms S undertook to make 
59 monthly repayments of £721.09. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£42,544.31 at an APR of 34.9%.
 
Ms S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough affordability assessment before approving the finance.
One of our investigators looked into Ms S complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that she wasnt satisfied that Moneybarn undertook reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Ms S would be able to pay the agreement in a sustainable way. 
But she went on to say that she was satisfied that had reasonable and proportionate checks 
been undertaken by Moneybarn it would have been entirely reasonable for it to have 
concluded the agreement was affordable for Ms S.
Ms S didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Ms S appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, regulations 
and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
I would also like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Ms S complaint 
that Moneybarn acted irresponsibly when it decided to lend to her in September 2020, 
nothing else. 
So, any concerns Ms S might have about, but not restricted to, the agreement interest rate, 
the total sum repayable over the term of the agreement and her agreement exit options are 
concerns Im not considering in this decision.
Moneybarn says that Ms S declared she was earning £3,000 a month net which it verified 
with one of the major third party credit reference agencies and by inspection of two payslips 
(supplied by Ms S dated July and August 2000). Ive checked these two payslips and Im 
satisfied that these support her declaration she was earning £3,000 a month net. Therefore, 
it follows that Im satisfied that Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
in this respect.
Moneybarn says that it carried out a credit check before approving Ms S application. 
Unfortunately, a copy of the credit check it completed isnt available. Ive therefore relied on 
what Moneybarn says its check showed and what Ms S says such a check would have 
shown.
And having done so I can confirm that Im in agreement with the investigator that having 
carried out the credit check that it did Moneybarn, rather than relying on statistical data from 
the Office for National Statistics to estimate Ms S non-discretionary expenditure before 
agreeing to lend to her, should have made further enquiries and further checks to get a 
better and more accurate understanding of Ms S non-discretionary expenditure.
I cant be certain what Ms S would have told Moneybarn had it asked about her 
non-discretionary expenditure. But based on what Ms S has told our service what that 
expenditure was and what bank statements for June, July and August 2020 she has 
provided our service show and dont show in respect of her expenditure (and income) Im 
simply not persuaded that further enquiries and further checks by Moneybarn would, or 
should, have caused it to conclude it shouldnt lend.
In other words, and in summary, Im simply not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman