DRN-3452773
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays by Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) in advising about 
transferring the value of benefits in Mr Hs employers final salary pension scheme. Mr H 
says the delays led to a reduced transfer value and lost investment growth. 
What happened
In brief, Mr H had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from his employers defined 
benefits pension scheme dated 30 October 2020, guaranteed for three months. Mr Hs 
financial adviser contacted Grove on 1 December 2020 about looking into whether Mr H 
should transfer. Grove spoke to Mr H over the telephone on 10 December 2020. On the 
same day Grove send Mr H a letter with enclosed client agreement. 
Grove gave Abridged Advice on 29 January 2021 that Mr H should remain in his employers 
scheme. Mr H provided further information. Grove changed the outcome of its Abridged 
Advice to inconclusive. Mr H asked for Groves Full Advice service. Grove advised Mr H on 
26 February 2021 to transfer. By then the CETV had expired. The new CETV was lower. 
Grove did another transfer value analysis which was completed on 21 April 2021. Grove 
confirmed the advice to transfer. The transfer was completed on 9 June 2021.
Mr H complained to Grove about the reduction in the CETV and the time taken. Grove didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr H referred it to us.  One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened but he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. Mr H said Grove had a duty to collect all the 
information needed. But Grove didnt confirm their understanding with a telephone call. Hed 
clearly said in the initial fact find that hed be very disappointed if he didnt have flexibility or 
control. He felt that was sufficient to prompt Grove to seek further clarification from him. 
Grove hadnt, which not only delayed the process, but meant the wrong outcome was 
reached. 
Mr H also said that Grove had failed in its duty of care. Grove held themselves out as 
experts in pension transfers and knew the calculation factors were changing and were in the 
best position to advise Mr H to get a new CETV. Mr H didnt realise that Grove would ask for 
a new CETV just as part of its normal process  which was different from requesting a new 
CETV. Grove knew it was urgent. If hed known Grove wasnt going to request a new CETV, 
hed have asked for one himself  he could afford to pay £350 and he knew the calculation 
factors changed on the 15th of each month. 
In response, the investigator referred to what Groves website said about Abridged Advice, 
the purpose of which was to give an indication of the outcome before all the information is 
collected. The investigators view was that the fact find was sufficiently comprehensive and 
with enough information to go forward with Abridged Advice. It wasnt a forgone conclusion 
that the advice would be to transfer. 
The investigator referred to what the regulator said about defined benefit transfers  that the 
starting point is to assume a transfer wont be suitable. The investigator didnt agree that 
Grove shouldve clarified what Mr H had said about being disappointed if he didnt have 
flexibility or control. The investigator didnt think Grove would be expected to request a new 
CETV before Mr H had agreed to transfer. The investigator added that Grove had received 
the discharge forms on 1 April 2021 and sent them to the employers scheme before the 15th 
of the month. A new CETV was always going to be required as the old one had expired and 
Grove did obtain a new CETV. 
Mr H remained unhappy. He said his decision not to get a new CETV was entirely down to 
Grove saying theyd get one. That was misleading. Grove knew the matter was urgent. 
There was a six week delay before a new CETV arrived. If Mr H had known thered be that 
delay, hed have acted differently. What Grove did and said was unclear during a time when 
he was vulnerable. He maintained it had led to an adverse customer outcome and when he 
thought he was protected by the regulators overriding principles. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is clearly very disappointed with how Grove dealt with things and the time taken to 
complete the transfer. Ive considered all Mr H has said very carefully and in particular why 
he disagrees with the views reached by the investigator. But having done so, my views are 
much the same as the investigators. I agree with the outcome the investigator reached and 
with the reasons he gave. I dont have much to add. 
I can see Mr H was very keen to transfer and he felt the CETV on offer was good value. But I 
dont agree the decision to transfer was obvious. As the investigator pointed out, the 
regulators position (see Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 19.1.6G) is that firms 
should start from an assumption that transferring out of a defined benefits scheme wont be 
suitable.  
COBS 19.1A also contains specific provisions (which came into effect on 1 October 2020) 
about giving abridged advice on pension transfers and conversions. I havent seen anything 
to suggest that Grove didnt comply with the requirements of COBS 19.1A.  
CETVs are generally only valid for three months and so time can be tight in getting advice 
and completing any transfer before the expiry of the guarantee period. As has been pointed 
out, by the time Grove was approached, the CETV was already a month old. Grove made it 
clear to Mr H from the outset that it was unlikely there was sufficient time to meet the CETV 
deadline. The letter with the client agreement gave that warning and the client agreement 
itself repeated it. It also said it would take at least a minimum of two months after all the 
required information had been received to carry out full pension transfer advice. 
Grove requested information from the employers scheme on 24 December 2020 but, 
despite reminders (sent on 30 December 2020 and 16 February 2021), it wasnt provided 
until 23 February 2021, by which time the CETV had expired. Full Advice was then given 
without delay on 26 February 2021. I note Mr H didnt return the discharge forms until 1 April 
2021. When Mr H had confirmed he wanted to proceed, Grove then requested a new CETV 
and a new report based on that was prepared and provided to Mr H promptly.  
In the meantime Grove had been able to provide Abridged Advice  that Mr H shouldnt 
transfer. I can, to some extent, understand why Mr H feels, had Grove probed his comments 
about wanting flexibility and control, hed have provided the further details he gave in 
response to the Abridged Advice and which led Grove to alter the outcome of its Abridged 
Advice to inconclusive. But I don t think that must mean the information Grove had obtained (and I note that the fact find was completed by Mr Hs adviser) to reach its initial conclusion 
was insufficient. 
The Abridged Advice process was such  because it wasnt Full Advice  that a different 
outcome might prevail once further information was to hand. The Abridged Advice process 
included a follow up call, the focus of which was the clients objectives and circumstances 
and to give the client an opportunity to raise any queries before deciding whether or not to 
proceed with Full Advice. By the time the call took place Groves adviser had considered the 
further information provided by Mr H as to his objectives and which the adviser conceded 
had led to a change in outcome. But I think thats how the process works and doesnt 
necessarily mean there were shortcomings on Groves part in gathering information on 
which to base its Abridged Advice. 
Mr H considers he shouldve been advised to obtain a new CETV during the telephone call 
on 3 February 2020. I note what hes said about being under stress and that made him 
vulnerable. I do appreciate that the situation was stressful  the transfer value was very 
substantial and Mr H was keen to transfer as quickly as possible and without paying 
unnecessary fees. Much of the conversation focused on whether, if the advice was that he 
shouldnt transfer but he still wanted to go ahead, Grove would process the transfer on an 
insistent client basis. 
The cost of a new CETV was modest (compared to the fees Mr H had to pay and which hed 
still have to pay if the advice was not to transfer) but it was at that stage unknown if 
ultimately Groves advice would be to transfer. I dont agree with Mr H that it was obvious 
that the advice would be to transfer. As Groves adviser explained, no transfer value analysis 
had been undertaken  that was precluded by COBS 19.1A.6R  so I think it was far from 
certain, despite Mr H making it clear that he wanted to proceed with a transfer, what Groves 
Full Advice would be. 
I think Grove was right to proceed on the basis of the expired CETV. I dont think any 
movement in gilt yields shouldve triggered a request for a new CETV. And, having listened 
to the call on 3 February 2021, I dont think Grove misled Mr H as to when a new CETV 
would be obtained. Grove said that advice could be based on the expired CETV and, if the 
transfer went ahead, at that point a new CETV could be requested. Neither Mr H nor his 
adviser made any comment about that or suggested that a new CETV should be obtained 
earlier.  
I can understand Mr Hs disappointment with the reduction in the CETV and I know he thinks 
things shouldve been done differently. But I can only make an award if Im satisfied Grove 
didnt act as it shouldve done. 
I dont think there were any unnecessary delays on Groves part throughout the process  
both in giving Abridged Advice and Full Advice. I dont agree that Grove failed to comply with 
the regulators Principles for Businesses or that Groves service was inadequate or that Mr H 
was treated unfairly. In my view, Grove managed Mr Hs expectations and kept to the 
timescales Grove had set out. I dont think Grove is responsible for the reduction in the 
transfer value or any investment loss because the transfer value wasnt available to be 
invested until 9 June 2021.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman