DRN-2587998
The complaint
Mr P complains about the length of time Bank of Scotland plc took to give permission for the 
amendment of leases, which he says affected the sale of his properties.
What happened
Mr P bought a plot of land a number of years ago and built three properties which Bank of 
Scotland provided buy-to-let mortgages for. After attempting to sell the properties several 
years ago, he discovered that the lease had been set up incorrectly, so the sale fell through. 
In 2020, Mr P received a cash offer for the properties. The sale fell through once more and 
Mr P says this was because Bank of Scotland took too long to provide permission for the 
leases to be amended, causing the buyer to pull out of the sale.
Bank of Scotland accepted that it hadnt responded to Mr P as quickly as it would have liked. 
But it didnt accept responsibility for the incorrectly assigned leases, as it said these were 
registered by Mr Ps solicitor at the time. It apologised for the delay in responding and 
explained this was partly caused by the covid-19 pandemic but also because, due to the 
arrears on Mr Ps account, it needed the right level of approval before responding. In 
recognition of the delay, it paid Mr P £500 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that Bank of Scotland hadnt dealt 
with the request in a timely manner. But he thought the £500 compensation it had offered 
Mr P was reasonable. He didnt think Bank of Scotland were directly responsible for the sale 
of the property being unsuccessful and thought Mr P could have pursued the matter sooner, 
once hed become aware of it.
Mr P didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P received a cash offer for his properties in 2020. His solicitor sent a letter to Bank of 
Scotland in August 2020 to ask it to give its permission for the leases to be amended. Bank 
of Scotland say this letter was received in September and its service level agreement (SLA) 
is to respond within 14 working days. This meant a response should have been provided to 
Mr P by 30 September. 
Bank of Scotland says that due to covid-19, there were some delays and it had a backlog. 
So it couldnt respond within its SLA. A letter had been drafted to reply to Mr Ps solicitor. 
But, because Mr Ps mortgage accounts were in significant arrears, Bank of Scotland says 
the letter needed to be signed off by someone with the appropriate authority and this added 
to the delay. The letter giving permission for the amendment of the leases was sent to Mr Ps 
solicitor on 9 December 2020. Mr P says his buyer had already pulled out of the sale at that 
point because of the delay.
Its clear theres been a delay. Bank of Scotland should have responded sooner and taking 
around three months to respond wasnt acceptable. This delay would have caused Mr P 
distress and frustration, as he would have been concerned as time went on that this would 
affect the sale of the properties.
I also appreciate from what Mr P has said that he contacted Bank of Scotland on numerous 
occasions chasing updates, but rarely got a satisfactory response. This would have also 
caused him a lot of inconvenience.
In recognition of this, Bank of Scotland paid Mr P £500 compensation. Ive considered 
whether this offer is fair given whats happened here, and I think it is.
Mr P has explained that hes attempted to sell the properties twice before. The issue with the 
leases came up both times and led to the buyers pulling out of the sale. Im aware Mr P has 
made reference to how the issue was handled by Bank of Scotland in the past, but as they 
were dealt with as separate complaints, I havent considered that as part of this decision. But 
I think its fair to say that Mr P would have been aware that the leases needed to be 
amended before he could sell. He was aware of this in 2015 and could have dealt with this at 
any time after that. He started the process, but didnt see it through to the end. So I think this 
is something Mr P could have taken action with sooner.
This issue wasnt of Bank of Scotlands making. Mr P has accepted that the leases were set 
up incorrectly by his previous solicitor when first registered. Bank of Scotland wasnt 
responsible for the error and the frustration and inconvenience its caused Mr P since. 
However, the way Bank of Scotland handled Mr Ps request could have been better  and 
things could have been resolved sooner. Taking into account the upset caused to him, the 
fact he had to chase for answers, and the timescales involved, I think £500 is reasonable.
Mr P has made reference to financial loss he will incur because of the buyer pulling out of 
the sale. But from what Ive seen, I dont think he has reasonably demonstrated this to the 
point that I would ask Bank of Scotland to pay more, especially given that it wasnt 
responsible for the issue with the leases, and it was something Mr P could have addressed 
earlier. Mr P still has the assets which he can sell, and Im satisfied that the issue with leases 
is now resolved.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman