DRN-3139823
The complaint
Mrs C complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with 
a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
1Plus1 provided a loan to Mrs C as follows:
Date Amount TermMonthly 
RepaymentLoan status
08/02/2018 £3,000 36 months £143.84 Outstanding
Mrs C told us that that 1Plus1 irresponsibly gave her a loan without completing sufficient 
checks. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think 1Plus1 should 
have provided Mrs C with the loan and so she upheld the complaint and set out the steps 
1Plus1 should take to put things right.
1Plus1 didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It mainly said:
Based on the affordability checks carried out, 1Plus1 deemed the loan to be 
affordable.
1Plus1s credit checks showed that Mrs C had 17 total loans including live loans in 
the last 12 months. 
1Plus1 considers it was fair to have relied on that information at the relevant time. 
1Plus1 didnt think it was fair for our investigator to say it should have used different 
information which was not available to 1Plus1 when the loan was taken out to 
retrospectively suggest that the loan was unaffordable, when this information was not 
provided from the credit agency checks it used.
1Plus1 asked our investigator to explain the regulatory requirements and guidance 
she had mentioned in her view letter and said it didnt think she had applied it 
appropriately.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. Id like to reassure 1Plus1 that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator and I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs C would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did 1Plus1 make a fair lending 
decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did 1Plus1 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. And its important to keep in mind that, when working out affordability, a lender 
must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt only be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C mentioned some other complaints when she first came to us but our investigator 
addressed those when she sent out her view and Mrs  C was happy with what our 
investigator said. So I will concentrate in my decision on her complaint that 1Plus1 
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable loan.
1Plus1 asked Mrs C about her income and expenditure and did some credit checks. 1Plus1 
hasnt explained in exact detail how it worked out its affordability calculation but I've taken 
into account the information 1Plus1 gathered from Mrs C and the fact it says it did background checks and used statistical information to ensure it reached a fair and 
reasonable view on what Mrs C could afford. 
The figures Mrs C declared and the assurances she gave 1Plus1 on the phone concerning 
her plans for the money and about her overall financial situation led to 1Plus1 concluding 
that she should have been able to comfortably afford the monthly repayments for this loan.
But, given what 1Plus1 saw in the credit report it acquired showing details of Mrs Cs credit 
history, I think our investigator was right to be concerned about 1Plus1 making its lending 
decision without doing more in-depth checks or taking steps to verify the information it was 
relying on. I say this particularly bearing in mind that Mrs C was signing up to repay the loan 
for the next three years which was, in my view, a long enough loan term to go beyond what 
would be a reasonably foreseeable period to expect complete stability in her finances. And it 
was evident that she had some of the hallmarks of a person in serious financial difficulty 
apparent on her credit report.  
I say this because 1Plus1 saw from the credit report it acquired that Mrs C owed more than 
£18,000 in unsecured lending  a substantial sum to my mind for someone in Mrs Cs 
financial situation. Also, 1Plus1 recorded that £8,537 of this debt was from three joint credit 
cards  1Plus1 hasnt shown me how it established whether this was in fact debt jointly 
incurred which Mrs C wasnt solely responsible for paying, but this doesnt make any overall 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. Mrs C told 1Plus1 that she made the repayments 
on the cards so I think it is reasonable to infer that Mrs C was responsible for at least some 
of this spending, given that she was the person paying for it. 1Plus1s credit checks showed 
that there were arrears incurred in the last six months on all three credit cards and a record 
of arrears going back further. It was apparent to 1Plus1 that Mrs C was in current arrears on 
another credit card that was in her name. 1Plus1 also saw that she had three other 
unsecured loans outstanding, including a substantial loan from another guarantor loan 
provider with almost £8,000 owing. During phone calls with Mrs C she had mentioned other 
debt not on the credit search - she said she had loads - including a further short-term loan 
with a balance of £1,889 with a loan provider she named that wasnt seen on the credit 
check results 1Plus 1 had acquired. 
As well as this, I think its likely that 1Plus1 would also have been aware that different credit 
searches can show different results. So I think it understood that its own credit checks didnt 
necessarily show a persons whole credit record.  
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But what Mrs C had 
told 1Plus1 about her income and expenditure looked to be clearly at odds with what 1Plus1 
saw on its own credit checks, which showed clear indications that Mrs C was struggling to 
manage her debt and apparently relying on taking out short-term loans and other unsecured 
loans to supplement her income. 
Thinking about all the information 1Plus1 had gathered, I dont think it was able to be 
satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that its loan would 
be sustainably affordable for Mrs C.
I think 1Plus1 should have realised that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending 
decision on information Mrs C was providing and that a proportionate check in these 
particular circumstances required 1Plus1 to take steps to independently verify the true state 
of Mrs Cs finances. I think 1Plus1 needed to do more in-depth checks to ensure it properly 
understood her financial situation before agreeing to provide this loan.  So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. Mrs C has 
provided an up to date credit report and Ive looked through this to see what 1Plus1 was 
likely to have found out. 
In the absence of other evidence, I think this gives me a reasonable insight into Mrs Cs 
finances at the time. And had 1Plus1 looked in more depth at Mrs Cs finances and verified 
some of the information it seems to have accepted at face value or assumed, then it would 
likely have seen further signs that she was facing serious problems managing her money 
and nothing to reassure it that the loan was sustainably affordable for her. 
I think it would have learnt that Mrs C was significantly more indebted to other high cost 
credit providers and regularly making use of short-term and other unsecured loans. She had 
an established track record of extensive reliance on expensive credit. I think 1Plus1 
shouldve seen that the overall picture was of someone persistently reliant on expensive 
credit and unable to afford the cost of her debt  and this application looked like it was part 
of that continuing pattern. So I dont think it was reasonable for 1Plus1 to conclude that it 
was likely Mrs C would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner.
And I think our adjudicator was right to say that there was a further reason to think that this 
loan likely wouldnt be sustainably affordable. Even assuming that Mrs C paid only the 
minimum monthly repayments to credit cards, according to the figures 1Plus1 has supplied, 
the cost of Mrs Cs non-consolidated lending plus the new monthly repayment for this loan 
by my reckoning was around £481 per month. This amount would be more than a third of her 
take home pay which 1Plus1 had recorded as £1,269. I think that this was such a significant 
proportion of Mrs Cs monthly income 1Plus1 couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that 
Mrs C would be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way every month over the 36 months 
loan term.   
Ive taken into account that 1Plus1 understood that the loan purpose was debt consolidation 
 in other words, that the loan it provided would be used to repay other debt rather than 
simply add to Mrs Cs total indebtedness.  
But Mrs Cs borrowing track record suggested she was repeatedly borrowing. The fact Mrs C 
had taken out several recent loans (which 1Plus1 could see from the credit checks it did) 
looks to me like a sign she was already facing financial difficulties. Thinking about all of this 
information, I dont think 1Plus1 could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan 
to Mrs C wouldnt put her in a worse position by increasing her overall debts. Given her 
recent borrowing, there was a real risk that Mrs C might use this loan to help her meet her 
immediate need to make loan repayments with the result this loan would simply add to the 
amount she already owed lenders. 
Even if Mrs C had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think 1Plus1 was able 
to safely say this wouldve improved her overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant 
and sustainable improvement in her financial situation given the extent of debt shown on its 
checks and the relatively smaller loan value. 
And, in reality, Mrs Cs actual debt was significantly more than 1Plus1 had found out about 
because it failed to carry out what I would consider a proportionate check  making debt 
consolidation even more irrelevant. 
I think the concerns Ive mentioned are borne out by the fact that theres no clear information 
showing that Mrs C used this loan for its stated purpose  and she quickly ran into payment 
problems on this loan and other accounts. So I think this supports my view that the loan 
wasnt sustainable for Mrs C and if 1Plus1 had done proportionate checks as it shouldve 
done then it wouldve realised this - and not provided the loan to Mrs C in these circumstances. For these reasons, I am planning on upholding Mrs Cs complaint that she 
should not have been given the loan.
In coming to my decision I've carefully taken into account everything that 1Plus1has said, 
including comments made in response to our investigators view letter. It hasnt said anything 
that affects my overall view but I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain how 
I've reached my final decision.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt think that 1Plus1 had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs C in 
some other way so as to warrant any extra redress. Mrs C told us that she was happy with 
our investigators assessment and I havent identified any reason for me to award any 
additional redress.
But I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs C to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
She has however been charged extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Mrs C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed.
If 1Plus1 has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, 1Plus1 should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Mrs C received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mrs C made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mrs C having paid more than she received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement).
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs C keeping in mind the need to treat her positively 
and sympathetically if she needs further time to pay. 
 remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 should 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited to take the steps I've set out above 
to put things right for Mrs C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman