DRN-2382833
The complaint
Mr W complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined the claims he made under his private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W says his GP referred him to see a consultant after experiencing back pain. Mr W had 
an appointment with the consultant in March 2020. They recommended an MRI scan, which 
showed a slipped disc.
Mr W claimed for two appointments he had with the consultant and for the MRI scan under 
his policy with BUPA. But BUPA declined the claims. It said that the consultant hadnt been 
one of BUPAs recognised consultants since December 2019, so any appointments and 
treatment recommended by them wasnt covered under the policy. BUPA also said Mr W 
hadnt got in touch with BUPA before meeting with the consultant to check if theyre 
recognised.
Mr W also says BUPA said the treatment would be covered if the consultant registered with 
BUPA again. The consultant has now been registered with BUPA again since 
November 2020. But BUPA says it wont pay the claim as the consultant wasnt covered 
during the time of treatment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think BUPA had done anything 
wrong as it had followed the terms of its policy. She said that Mr W hadnt got in touch with 
BUPA before going ahead with the appointments and MRI scan, and the consultant wasnt 
one of BUPAs recognised consultants at the time. She also hadnt seen anything to show 
BUPA said it would pay the claim if the consultant became registered again.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators findings. Hes explained that hes previously used 
consultants that werent recognised by BUPA  but as long as these werent more expensive 
BUPA paid the claims. Mr W had also offered to pay BUPA any difference the consultant 
charged compared to a recognised one.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Mr Ws policy with BUPA, the benefit for out-patient treatment include charges for an 
MRI scan When requested by your Consultant. But the policy terms also say the following:
You should always call us before arranging or receiving Treatment to check that you will be 
covered. 
And
All Treatment must be carried out in a Recognised Facility in the UK, and provided by a 
Consultant, medical practitioner or healthcare professional who is recognised by us for the 
Treatment you need on the date you receive that Treatment, unless we specifically authorise 
otherwise in a particular case. 
The policy defines treatment as surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) 
that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
I think the key issue here is that Mr W had the appointments with the consultant, and the 
MRI scan, without getting an authorisation from BUPA before doing so. And during this time, 
the consultant wasnt one of BUPAs recognised consultants. 
For Mr W to make a successful claim under his policy, the treatment must be provided by a 
consultant recognised by BUPA, and the MRI scan would need to be recommended by a 
recognised consultant. But the consultant Mr W had the appointments with, and who 
recommended the MRI scan, wasnt recognised with BUPA at the time.
I dont think its relevant here that BUPA may previously have paid Mr Ws claims for 
consultants that werent registered. I also dont think BUPA needs to pay for a claim 
retrospectively now that the relevant consultant is registered again  this is because it wasnt 
at the time of the treatment (appointments and MRI scan). I havent seen anything to show 
that BUPA promised to pay this claim at any point. 
Considering the terms and conditions of this policy, and the circumstances of this complaint, 
I dont think BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ws claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman