DRN-3492758
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E trading as partnership, G complains Handelsbanken plc (Handelsbanken) 
declined its application for an overdraft during a time in which it was experiencing financial 
difficulty due to the pandemic.
For the purposes of this decision, I will refer to Mr E (on the behalf of G) as he has been the 
main person dealing with this situation.
What happened
G had a business account with Handelsbanken. In April 2021, due to the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic on its operations and finances, Mr E, on behalf of G, applied for a 
£40,000 overdraft in order to cover business related costs such as staff wages. 
The application was declined by Handelsbanken. Mr E felt they hadnt fairly considered the 
supporting information, nor the fact it had been a customer for a number of years. He was 
also unhappy with the overall level of service provided. 
Mr E said G had no alternative but to seek credit elsewhere which was at a higher interest 
rate which incurred costs including those relating to accountants and lawyers. He believed 
Handelsbanken should refund such costs. He complained. 
Handelsbanken said they were under no obligation to provide finance. They had fairly 
considered the application, explained the reasons why they werent willing to lend and 
communicated the same. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr E referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed Handelsbanken had acted fairly when 
deciding not to lend to G. Mr E disagreed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues 
here. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every detail to be able to reach what I consider is a fair outcome.
Its not our services role to decide whether a financial firm like Handelsbanken should lend 
to a consumer or business - its not something we would generally interfere with because its 
a commercial decision for them to make. Instead in this decision, Ive considered whether 
Handelsbankens decision not to lend was reached fairly having considered the relevant 
information before doing so. In this case, Im satisfied they have. Ill explain why.
According to Mr E, G had been a customer of Handelsbanken for a number of years and had 
previous overdraft facilities. Handelsbanken undertook regular reviews of Gs banking 
facilities and decided when an overdraft was repaid in 2020 it wouldnt look to provide a 
further credit facility because they considered it above average risk. I dont find this 
inherently unfair as it was for them to decide whom it lends to. I can see Handelsbanken 
made G aware of this. In my view G knew, or ought reasonably to have known, it was 
unlikely to secure further credit with Handelsbanken.
Given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic and the impact on Gs finances, I 
appreciate it experienced financial difficulty which is why it applied for a £40,000 overdraft. I 
note it asked for a decision to be made no later than the end of May 2021. 
From what Ive seen Im satisfied the application was fully considered with relevant 
information taken into account. Handelsbanken said it considered a range of factors both 
financial and non-financial such as Gs credit worthiness, its financial information such as 
cashflow forecast, Gs operating model and other external factors. Based on this information, 
they decided not to lend as it felt G was an above average risk when its appetite to lend was 
for lower than average risk. While I recognise Mr E disagrees with this, as mentioned above 
ultimately its for Handelsbanken to decide who to lend to. 
The decision not to lend and the reasoning were communicated to G on 7 May 2021 which 
was before the end of May 2021 as requested. I can see Handelsbanken also provided 
contact information for a financial broker who may be able to assist in securing funding 
elsewhere. For these reasons, again I consider they acted fairly. 
Mr E was unhappy about the decision and he believed it was important to provide up to date 
financial information for Handelsbanken to consider. Having looked at the correspondence, I 
can see when G initially made the application, Mr E did say up to date financial information 
would be provided but it would appear this wasnt initially provided. He asked for the decision 
to be reviewed again with this new information. Although Handelsbanken had already 
reached a decision and made it clear it wasnt just based on financial information, they 
agreed to review it again but they made it clear the decision may not change. Ive also seen 
evidence that they advised not to incur costs in order to get this additional information. 
This further information was provided and considered but ultimately it didnt change 
Handelsbankens decision and this was communicated on 3 June 2021. Mr E comments he 
wasnt told before the end of May 2021 which meant he was under pressure to secure 
funding elsewhere for G. But for the reasons above, I disagree. The original decision was 
communicated on 7 May 2021 however at his request he asked for a further review with no 
further assurances from Handelsbanken that the decision would change or they would be 
able to let him know before the end of May 2021 so I cant say theyve done anything wrong. 
Based on what Ive seen Handelsbanken considered this additional information in a timely 
fashion and promptly told G that their decision remained unchanged. 
I know Mr E complained about a number of other points such as Handelsbanken werent 
willing to lend to him personally or with security as a guarantor and they requested a 
document password from Gs accountants directly. Ive carefully considered these additional 
points but taking everything into account, I dont find Handelsbanken acted unfairly or there 
was a failure in their level of service. 
Overall, I consider Handelsbankens decision not to lend was reached fairly having 
considered the relevant information and they provided clear reasons for the same. I also find the level of service provided was in line with what I would expect. Therefore I dont find 
theyve done anything wrong so I wont be requiring them to reimburse any costs incurred by 
G, Mr E or Mrs E personally. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E on the behalf 
of G to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman