DRN-2322332
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T are unhappy with the settlement Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
(Gresham) offered for rebuilding their garden wall. 
 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T had home insurance with Gresham for buildings and contents, including 
accidental and extra accidental cover. The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer 
only to Mr T throughout my decision.
A car crashed into Mr Ts garden wall, causing significant damage. The council removed the 
dangerous parts of the wall to make the public footpath safe so Mr T claimed for the wall 
repairs and reimbursement of the councils invoice.
Gresham accepted the claim. It settled the relevant parts of the councils invoice, but it 
thought Mr Ts claim for rebuilding the wall was betterment. The business also said there 
was evidence of wear and tear and poor design. Gresham offered Mr T around £8000 to 
cash settle his claim. 
Mr T declined the settlement because the quotes hed received for the rebuild work were 
significantly more than Gresham offered. He also complained about the time Gresham had 
taken to handle his claim.
Our investigator asked Gresham whether it would repair the wall rather than cash settle, but 
it said it couldnt guarantee any work done on a wall already showing signs of wear and tear 
because it wouldnt be safe. Our investigator thought that Gresham should either cash settle 
Mr Ts claim to cover the full wall rebuild work or arrange the repair work. She said that 
Gresham hadnt provided any evidence that the wall was of poor design and Mr T wouldnt 
be able to rebuild it for the amount offered. Our investigator didnt think Gresham was 
responsible for any delays handling Mr Ts claim, though, because the claim was made at 
the start of the pandemic, so Gresham was limited under Government rules.
Gresham didnt agree with the proposed settlement. It remained of the view that Mr Ts 
quotes were in excess of reinstatement costs and it repeated its offer to cash settle at just 
over £8000.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
The main issue of complaint is the amount Gresham offered Mr T to cash settle his claim. 
Gresham thinks the payment is a fair amount to settle the claim for the wall because it was 
showing signs of wear and tear and would likely have fallen soon, anyway, because of the 
tree roots and poor design. Mr T doesnt agree that the wall wasnt up to standard and says 
the council hadnt commented on safety issues when it inspected an overhanging plant just 
six months earlier. He thinks Gresham should settle the full claim.
Ive looked at the policy and Ive noted a few relevant clauses, which I dont think are in 
dispute. For example, the wall is covered under the buildings policy and for accidental 
damage caused by a vehicle. So, I think Mr T has shown that an insured peril occurred, and 
it was fair that Gresham accepted the claim.
Greshams settlement offer was limited to the damaged part of the wall because of wear and 
tear, poor design and trees near the boundary wall.
The policy excludes cover for:
wear and tear and damage which happens gradually over a period of time. Areas commonly 
prone to wear and tear on a building include guttering, flat roofs, fascia boards and 
boundary walls, and these should all be checked on a regular basis.
And, 
damage caused by faulty or unsuitable materials, design or poor workmanship.
On the face of it, I can see why Gresham mightve offered to cover only part of the repair 
cost. However, I dont think its decision was fair. Gresham hasnt provided any evidence of 
poor design or that the damage was caused by faulty design: the damage was caused by a 
car crashing into it. So, I dont think the policy exclusion is relevant here.
Gresham says it shouldnt need to cover the cost of the full wall because it mightve fallen 
soon anyway through wear and tear and tree placement. It mightve fallen for those reasons, 
but it didnt. The car damaged the wall and Mr Ts policy covers that insured peril. 
While its sometimes fair for an insurer to reduce the amount paid to factor in wear and tear, 
thats not the case here. Mr T meets the criteria of his policy which provides the following:
5. Rebuilding Cost Guarantee
The basis of claims settlement for buildings will be as detailed in 2 Settling Claims with no 
deduction for wear and tear, even if at the time of damage the sum insured is less than the 
cost of completely rebuilding the home in its original form, size and condition as when new.
Gresham made an offer for the proportion of the wall which was damaged by the car but 
rejected Mr Ts request for the remaining undamaged wall. I understand that it shouldnt 
need to repair or cover any undamaged parts of the wall, but Gresham wont rebuild the 
damaged wall on top of the remaining part which it says is undamaged. If its undamaged, 
that implies its safe to build on. If Gresham wont rebuild on it because its showing signs of 
wear and tear and it cant guarantee the work, but it wont cover it in the cash settlement 
either, that equates to making a deduction for wear and tear. The policy specifically states 
that it wont make a deduction. 
I understand that Gresham also believes the wall isnt safe to build on because of poor 
design. It described the design of the wall but it hasnt provided any evidence that it was 
poorly built. Gresham thinks that if the council had inspected the wall, it wouldve been 
considered unsafe for a public highway. It says thats supported by the fact that the council 
removed 80% of the wall to make it safe after the crash. I dont agree. The council removed 
part of the wall to make it safe because a car crashed into it, not because of poor design. Mr T said the council wrote to him six months earlier asking him to cut back a plant which was 
overhanging the wall to the public highway. If the wall was unsafe, I think its likely the 
council wouldve also commented on that. So, on balance, I dont think Gresham has 
demonstrated that the wall was unsafe before the car crash.
As I see it, the wall is a single structure which was damaged by the car. Gresham hasnt 
provided any evidence of poor design, or anything to indicate that the remaining wall is 
unsafe. So, I think its fair that Gresham either reinstates the wall, putting Mr T back in the 
position he was in before the crash, or cash settles to an amount which allows Mr T to 
achieve the same outcome. If the wall is no longer to current building standards, or Mr T 
chooses to enhance the design, then he should bear any additional cost to reflect the 
betterment aspect of the work. For clarity, Gresham is responsible for deciding which 
settlement option it will offer in line with the terms of the policy.
Moving on, Ive looked at whether Gresham unreasonably delayed handling the claim, but I 
dont think it did. As our investigator explained, and unfortunately for Mr T, he raised a claim 
at the start of a pandemic. Gresham wouldve needed time to adapt to different ways of 
working to meet Government rules, so I dont think its fair in the circumstances to hold it 
responsible for any additional, reasonable delays. That said, I can see that Gresham made 
its cash settlement offer relatively quickly - four months after the damage happened  and 
Mr T didnt make his claim until almost a month after the accident. So, I dont think the 
delays were unusually long or entirely caused by Gresham. Im satisfied that Gresham 
handled the claim within a fair amount of time and I wont be asking it to do anything in 
respect of this issue. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr Ts policy covers his full garden wall for the damage caused 
when a car crashed into it. Gresham should either complete a repair to return the wall to the 
same standard as before the accident or offer a cash settlement which allows Mr T to 
achieve the same result. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Gresham 
Insurance Company Limited should:
either,
repair the wall to the same standard as before the accident,
or,
offer a cash settlement which allows Mr T to achieve the same result.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman