DRN-2920436
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the performance of their mortgage endowment policies held 
with ReAssure Limited (ReAssure).
What happened
Ive already concluded, in another decision, that we cant consider the sale of the policies 
ending *377, *378 and *970 as they were brought out of time. But I can consider the 
performance of these policies. 
Mr and Mrs G have explained that they were expecting their policies to pay out amounts 
exceeding £100,000. Theyve said they were told this would be the case when they bought 
them in the late 1990s but, some 20 years later, have now been told theyre only worth in the 
region of £62,000. They believe this is due to the mismanagement of funds or because of 
overcharging by the administrative team. They think this is due to ReAssure wanting to 
maximise profits and bonuses. Mr and Mrs G say they now wont be able to pay their 
mortgage in full when the policies mature, which is contrary to what they were told when they 
purchased the policies. 
Mr and Mrs G have said policy projections led them to believe theyd receive something 
close to the expected amount. But they also said they found the communication confusing 
as, from time to time, ReAssure would tell them the policies may not reach the intended 
amount. They say theyve complained regularly about this. 
Mr and Mrs G would like ReAssure to contribute more to their policies to enable them to pay 
off most of their mortgage. 
ReAssure said that the investment returns havent been as was anticipated at the time of 
taking the plans out. As at January 2020, it pointed out thered been two periods of 
significant investment falls which affected the growth achieved on the plans. It said these 
were outside of its control and couldnt have been foreseen. 
Our investigator considered the performance of these policies. He pointed out that these are 
investment products, affected by upturns and downturns in the market. And he reiterated 
that there had been two financial crises during the term of the policies. So he wasnt 
persuaded that ReAssure had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, I dont uphold their 
complaint  Ill explain why.
I appreciate that it must be extremely frustrating and disappointing to find that the value of 
the policies is lower than Mr and Mrs G expected, and lower than they were led to believe 
they would be when they took out the policies. But this isnt enough for me to uphold the 
complaint. Id need to be persuaded that ReAssure was negligent in how it managed the 
fund  and Ive seen nothing to substantiate that. Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was 
any overcharging by the administration team, nor anything to suggest that ReAssures profits 
or bonuses were in any way related to the value of the fund. Unfortunately, many funds were 
affected in a similar way. 
I can see that, as it states on the initial paperwork, the value of the policies is reflective of the 
performance of the UK stock market. So its not surprising that the fund value has been 
impacted by financial crises  and Im not persuaded this is evidence of mismanagement or 
negligence. 
Ive seen some of the paperwork that Mr and Mrs G referred to. While they were notified in 
2006 that two of the policies were on track to repay the target amount, they were also told at 
the time ..it is impossible to be certain of future investment growth and your maturity value 
could be lower or higher than shown in the illustrations.. And, later on, it became apparent 
that the investments were likely to suffer a shortfall. Original policy documentation states 
There is no guarantee that the money invested in the Plan will be enough to cover your 
chosen mortgage amount at the end of the mortgage term.
So, overall, I cant see that Mr and Mrs G were misled about the performance of the policy. 
And just because it hasnt performed as well as hoped, or originally expected, doesnt mean 
that there was mismanagement, maladministration or negligence on ReAssures part. I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to support Mr and Mrs Gs arguments and therefore wont 
be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against ReAssure Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman