DRN-3106910
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the decision by Aviva Insurance Limited to turn down her private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs P is a member of a group private medical insurance policy. She joined the policy on 1 
November 2019 on a moratorium basis.
Mrs P made a claim under the policy as she needed to see a specialist for investigations. 
Aviva turned down the claim, as it thought it fell under the moratorium. Unhappy with this, 
Mrs P brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Aviva had turned 
down the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains whats meant by a moratorium. It says:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if the 
member had:
symptoms of
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or advice about
that condition in the five years before they joined the policy.
On 16 December 2019, Mrs Ps specialist (Dr N) referred her to another consultant. Dr N 
explained that Mrs P had experienced symptoms previously, and that she had presented 
again this year with a few months history of [symptoms]. Dr N then explained what 
investigations Mrs P had undergone as a result.
Our investigator thought that since this letter had only been written around six weeks after 
Mrs P had joined the policy, then it had been reasonable for Aviva to say that Mrs Ps 
symptoms had predated the start of the policy. 
We dont know the date that Mrs P first went to see Mrs N with her more recent symptoms. 
However, Mrs Ps representative says that Mrs P had investigations on 9 November 2019. 
As the evidence from Dr N supports that Mrs Ps symptoms had led to those investigations, I 
think its reasonable to conclude that Mrs Ps symptoms had been present for a few months 
before 9 November 2019, and therefore also the start of the policy on 1 November 2019.
Mrs Ps representative says that Mrs P had experienced the same intermittent symptoms 
previously, and that these were related to a different condition.
I see that investigations were done in 2017 because of Mrs Ps symptoms at the time, and 
these showed no evidence of dysplasia (abnormal cells which may lead to cancer). 
However, when Mrs P presented in 2019 after again experiencing similar symptoms, 
investigations were again carried out. This time Mrs P was unfortunately found to have 
probable high grade dysplasia with a suspicion of potential associated invasive 
adenocarcinoma. Although Mrs P hadnt been diagnosed with cancer at this point, it was 
thought that she had potentially malignant tissue. This was confirmed with later 
investigations. 
Ive read some further information that Mrs P has provided from Dr N. Whilst Dr N has said 
that Mrs Ps symptoms were similar to those shed experienced over the years due to her 
previous condition, she didnt suggest that Mrs Ps symptoms in 2019 were unrelated to her 
later cancer diagnosis.
Based on the available evidence Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude 
that the symptoms Mrs P was experiencing just before the policy started were related to her 
later diagnosis of cancer, rather than her previous condition.
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mrs P, as the evidence supports that her 
symptoms started before she joined the policy, that means her claim falls within the 
moratorium. Im therefore satisfied that Aviva turned down the claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman