DRN-2963435
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was almost 
nine years old and had already completed more than 71,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would anticipate some wear and tear and consider some components would likely be 
towards the end of their serviceable life. But, whilst I think its reasonable to suggest wear 
could be happening I dont think a reasonable person would expect the car to have 
significant issues from the very beginning and I think this car probably did.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Close Brothers were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr C reported the engine noise to the 
business within the first month. So, I think the onus was on the business to demonstrate the 
fault wasnt present from the beginning.
The dealership didnt accept responsibility for the fault as they said Mr C had completed 
unauthorised repairs to the car. They said hed replaced the timing belt and the radiator 
cube, but the dealership explained that hed also need to replace the water pump and belt 
tensioner. A resolution was reached with Mr C. He agreed to fit the parts if the dealership 
paid for the water pump. That agreement was made on the basis that if the repair failed the 
dealership wouldnt be held responsible for future repairs.
I think its fair to say that agreement only concerned a reoccurrence of a problem with the 
water pump. But if another problem presented itself, or the water pump wasnt the issue, I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest there was an agreement Mr C couldnt pursue the 
matter.
Im persuaded that the fault with the gearbox was the most likely cause of the engine noise 
that Mr C reported to the Close Brothers on 3 December 2020 only a couple of weeks after 
hed taken receipt of the car. 
I say that because there have been no other explanations for the fault and because Mr C 
appears to have been complaining about the same issue even after the water pump was 
replaced. 
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a fault present at the 
point of supply. I think Close Brothers had that opportunity when they were alerted to issues 
by Mr C in early December 2020. But, I dont think they adequately investigated that fault 
and I think its fair to say their attempt at a repair therefore failed.
The relevant legislation explains that if a repair fails the business should then allow the 
consumer to reject the car and I think that would be the most appropriate course of action 
here.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should allow Mr C to reject the car and end the finance agreement he has 
with them.
Theyll need to collect the car and to refund any deposit that Mr C may have paid although I 
cant see one on the finance agreement.
Ive thought about whether it would be reasonable to tell Close Brothers to provide a refund 
of instalments for lack of use. Our investigator asked Mr C about his use of the car, but Mr C 
didnt provide information to demonstrate his use had been reduced so I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Close Brothers to provide a refund as its only fair Mr C pays for the use hes 
had from the car.
Mr C has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues as hes had to take his car to have 
the fault diagnosed when the dealership could have done that earlier. Hes also had to 
escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved more rapidly 
by Close Brothers. In those circumstances I would agree with the investigators suggestion 
that Close Brothers pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
I understand Mr C will be unhappy about the level of compensation Im awarding as hes 
explained hes carried out quite a few repairs to the car and that he and his mechanic have 
invested a lot of time in it. It was Mr Cs decision to complete repairs himself and I dont think 
it would be fair to ask Close Brothers to compensate him or his mechanic for the time or 
money spent on these issues when they could have been referred to the dealership.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr C;
refund any deposit that may have been paid and, if thats necessary, add 8% simple 
interest to the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr C £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman