DRN-2072429
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs I says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Is credit card application had a section for optional features, one of which was PPI. It 
gave an overview of what the policy was for and what it cost. Then there was a box Mrs I 
could tick if she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was 
ticked, and Mrs I signed the form to confirm her choices.
Mrs I recalled being sold PPI over the phone, but while Im sure shes given us her best 
recollections theres no evidence of a phone call here  it looks like she applied for her card 
and PPI using just the paper form. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Mrs I was 
misled into having PPI, nor have I seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from 
the time. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made it clear Mrs I didnt have to take out PPI 
and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs I, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs I, Ive assumed it did. That 
means Lloyds had to check that the policy was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it looks like Mrs I was eligible 
for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. While Mrs I had 
sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and offered her more 
comprehensive cover. And she doesnt seem to have had any alternative cover in case she 
lost her job. So the PPI couldve really been useful for her in case something went wrong.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs I about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs I chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mrs I in case something 
went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs I could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty, Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs I.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs I because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs I about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
What the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs I any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mrs I any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
That means Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs I the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs I 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs I can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs I.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs I any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman