DRN-1337222
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy that it 
increased the price of his commercial motor insurance policy up after he made a claim.
What happened
Mr P was sent a renewal quote in April 2019 by Admiral. But he was involved in an accident 
before renewal, so Admiral recalculated the premium. When Mr P complained about the 
increase a loyalty discount was applied and eventually Mr P paid about £130 more than the 
original quote. But as Mr P wasnt happy about this he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She 
acknowledged that it was unfortunate that the claim had happened just before renewal, but 
she didnt think that Admiral had done anything wrong. 
As Mr P didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr P is frustrated as he thought hed agreed his annual premium with 
Admiral and that is what he would pay for the coming year. And I accept Mr Ps point that he 
wouldnt have paid an increased amount until the following year if the accident wouldve 
happened a day after renewal. But the accident took place before renewal and Admiral is 
entitled to reconsider the risk Mr P posed and so the premium it needed to cover that risk. 
I know Mr P also feels that his premium shouldnt have been impacted as the accident 
wasnt his fault. But an insurer considers a number of factors in deciding the risk a consumer 
poses and this includes fault accidents, non-fault accidents and incidents that dont amount 
to a claim. And they can evidence (as Admiral has in this instance to this service) that such 
accidents and incidents impact on the risk a consumer poses. As the investigator has 
explained we cant interfere in an insurers commercial decisions about this. But Im satisfied 
that Admiral has treated Mr P the same as any other customer who found themselves in the 
same position as Mr P.
Finally, as Mr Ps policy hadnt renewed he was free to shop around and place his business 
elsewhere if he wasnt happy with the quote Admiral provided. So I cant say he has been 
prejudiced here. I say this as he wasnt tied into Admiral at that stage and it wouldnt have 
cost him anything to take his business elsewhere. 
As such, I dont think Admiral have done anything wrong and Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ultimately, it is entitled to recalculate the risk and premium before the policy 
started. Admiral also applied a loyalty discount when Mr P contacted them about the increase in premium which seems fair even if Mr P feels that it shouldve applied this earlier. 
And it offered Mr P a £10 contribution towards his calls as a gesture of goodwill, so overall I 
think it has acted reasonably. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman