DRN-2074988
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has unfairly 
recorded an incident on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.
What happened
Mr Ts vehicle was hit by a third party when it was parked outside his house. As it wasnt 
possible to trace the third-party Mr T didnt make a claim under his policy held with LV., 
instead he arranged his own repairs.
LV recorded the incident on the CUE database as notification only and this has increased 
Mr Ts premiums. Mr T doesnt think it is fair that LV recorded the incident on the CUE 
database as he didnt make a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances leading to the incident being recorded arent disputed. What is in dispute 
is whether or not LV recorded the incident fairly on the CUE database which has led to Mr T 
paying higher premiums.
Mr T reported the incident to LV which was his responsibility under the policy he held with it. 
LV did not record that Mr T had made a claim under the policy, instead it recorded a 
notification of an incident.
Whether or not LV recorded the incident Mr T has an obligation to answer any questions 
asked by a prospective insurer accurately. So, if Mr T applies for insurance and is asked a 
question about incidents within the timeframe that the incident in question took place, he 
would be expected to disclose the information.
I appreciate Mr T paid for the damage to his vehicle himself and didnt make a claim, so an 
increase in premium may seem unfair. But LV has accurately recorded the incident so I cant 
ask it to change or remove the record, I also cant comment on the premium Mr T has been 
asked to pay by other insurers.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman