DRN-2366183
The complaint
Mr S complains as the representative of the estate of Mrs S, that Link Market Services 
Trustees Limited (LMSTL) failed to sell shares when it should have done.
What happened
 In May 2018 Mr S wrote to Standard Life Aberdeen Shareholder Services (SLASS) in his 
capacity as the representative of Mrs Ss estate to sell her shares in Standard Life.
As LMSTL had been contracted by Standard Life to act as registrar of its shares and provide 
a share dealing service it was responsible for dealing with the share sale request. It sent Mr 
S an email on 5 June 2018 attaching a share dealing form for him to complete.
The email went into Mr Ss email spam folder and wasnt seen by him. Mr S telephoned in 
September 2018 asking why the shares hadnt been sold. During the telephone call on 13 
September 2018 Mr S placed a limit order at £3.15 for the following day as it wasnt possible 
to sell the shares when he placed the order, as the market was about to close. 
The shares didnt sell on 14 September 2014 as Mr S had expected. LMSTL has said this 
was because the size of the order was too large for the market. Mr S complained to LMSTL 
who responded on 8 October 2018 setting out what had happened and saying it had acted 
correctly. It also said that if he hadnt already sold the shares using the telephone dealing 
service, he could contact the writer and she would arrange a dealing agent to contact him.
There was then ongoing correspondence between Mr S and LMSTL including a letter on 4 
December 2018 from LMSTL which again set out what had happened but providing some 
further detail about why the trade hadnt gone ahead on 14 September 2018. 
It explained that the broker sets a limit on the size of trades that can be accepted online  
the electronic market size (EMS). It said this can vary for different reasons and from broker 
to broker and from day to day and it couldnt provide any more detail as to why the trade 
failed. It again said that if Mr S wanted to trade the shares to contact the writer who would 
arrange a member of the dealing team to contact him. 
There was further ongoing correspondence before the shares were finally sold on 16 May 
2019. In a letter dated 23 May 2019 LMSTL again said it had done nothing wrong when 
dealing with Mr Ss requests to sell the shares in 2018. 
However, it did think it had delayed the sale of shares in May 2019 because it had asked Mr 
S to provide National Client Identifier (NCI) details which he had provided in the telephone 
call on 13 September 2018. It said that but for this the shares would have sold on 7 May 
2019 and paid £420 to take into account the difference in share price if the shares had been 
sold on that date. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think LMSTL had done anything 
wrong because it didnt sell the shares in 2018, for the same reasons it had put forward as to 
why it had acted correctly.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. In summary he made the following points:
He wrote to SLASS in May 2018 not LMSTL and he wasnt aware of LMSTL until 
September 2018.
Because he wasnt aware of LMSTL he wouldnt have expected an email from it and 
would have ignored it as spam in his junk folder.
He would have been looking for an expecting a response from SLASS or money 
arriving in the account.
The response from SLASS of 24 May 2020 set up a duty of care and responsibility 
between him and SLASS.
LMSTL should have taken further action or contacted SLASS when it didnt get a 
response to the email of 5 June 2018. 
LMSTL only needed NCI information not further instructions to sell.
The only contact number he had was for SLASS.
In both conversations in September 2018 the details of his original letter were 
available but there was no mention of the email of 5 June 2018.
LMSTL could have phoned him when there was no response to the email.
He wasnt provided with full terms and conditions in his telephone call on 13 
September 2018 or the email of 5 June 2018. The email of 24 May 2018 also didnt 
provide these.
How was the sale of the shares on 14 September 2018 outside of LMSTLs control 
given his instructions, the price available and the number of Standard Life shares 
sold that day by LMSTL. He was not told in the telephone call on 13 September 2018 
that the number of shares was an issue.
He reasonably believed that having provided grant of probate, passport and driving 
licence and details from the shareholder file that he had provided everything needed 
for the sale of shares to take place.
He is mainly concerned about the delay between May and September 2018 but the 
delay between September 2018 and January 2019 was largely because SLASS 
decided to consolidate its shares.
Mr S calculated the loss to the estate if the shares had been sold on 24 May 2018 or 14 
September 2018.
As Mr S didnt agree with the opinion of the investigator the matter has been referred to me 
for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, I dont think LMSTL is responsible for delaying 
the sale of the shares.
I note what Mr S has said about SLASSs responsibility, but his complaint is about the delay 
in sale of shares and it is LMSTL which is responsible for carrying out instructions to sell. I 
can only consider and make findings about one business in a complaint and LMSTL is the 
appropriate respondent to the complaint given it, not SLASS, was responsible for selling the 
shares. 
Whilst I am not considering a complaint against SLASS and make no findings in relation to 
its involvement, it seems to me that once LMSTL had been made aware Mr S wanted to sell 
- which it was aware of no later than 5 June 2018  only it could be held responsible for any 
subsequent delay in the sale of shares.
I think there are two main periods of potential delay in this complaint. The first is the period 
between Mr Ss initial request in May 2018 and him telephoning to chase up the sale on 13 September 2018. The second period is between when he expected the limit order to be 
executed on 14 September 2018 and the shares finally being sold in May 2019.
The period between May and 13 September 2018.
Mr S wrote to SLASS on 16 May 2018 requesting sale of the shares and providing the grant 
of probate (GOP). Within his letter he asked that he be contacted if further information or 
documentation was required. He received a response dated 24 May 2018 returning the GOP 
and informing him his request had been passed to the Share Dealing Team  meaning 
LMSTL - and that they would be in touch shortly. 
LMSTL emailed Mr S on 5 June 2018 and attached a share dealing form to be completed as 
it needed further information in addition to the written sales request that Mr S sent to SLASS. 
He didnt see this email as it went into his email junk folder. 
Nothing further happened until Mr S telephoned on 13 September 2018 having noted that 
the estate hadnt received anything from the share sale. It was during this call he was made 
aware of LMSTLs involvement. 
I am not satisfied that LMSTL did anything wrong regarding this first potential period of 
delay. I dont think there was anything wrong with it choosing to respond to Mr Ss letter of 
24 May 2018 by email and sending a share dealing form for him to complete.
I acknowledge what Mr S has said about him expecting communication to be from SLASS 
and not LMSTL and that he wouldnt have had reason to check an email in his junk email 
folder which wasnt from SLASS. 
But whilst this explains why he didnt see the email LMSTL had sent to him, it had no way of 
knowing that the email would go into his junk folder and wouldnt be seen by him. Having 
responded to his letter and having no reason to think the email hadnt been received I think it 
was reasonable for it to wait for him to respond with a completed share dealing form.
And whilst I note Mr S argues that LMSTL could have written to him or telephoned him when 
it got no response to its email, I am not satisfied that there was any obligation on LMSTL to 
chase him up.
Im also mindful that in its response to him of 24 May 2018 SLASS stated that the Share 
Dealing Team would be in touch shortly. I think this should have made Mr S aware that the 
sale of shares wasnt just going to go ahead based on his letter of 16 May 2018. Having 
been told to expect contact I think it is reasonable to have expected Mr S to chase things up 
when  as far as he was aware - he hadnt been contacted. 
I appreciate that these shares were only one of the things he was having to deal with, but I 
cant hold LMSTL responsible for him doing nothing between receipt of the letter of 24 May 
2018 from SLASS - telling him to expect contact shortly - and 13 September 2018 when he 
telephoned to chase up what was happening. 
The period between 14 September 2018 and June 2019.
I have referred to the telephone call Mr S made on 13 September 2018 to find out what had 
happened regarding the share sale. After he was made aware this hadnt gone ahead, he 
gave telephone instructions for the shares to be sold, but he placed a limit order with a price 
of £3.15 per share. He expected this to be actioned by LMSTL the following day, 14 
September 2018 but it wasnt. LMSTL has explained this was because of the brokers EMS and has pointed to its terms 
and conditions which sets out reasons why a limit order could fail that are beyond its control 
- which includes that the maximum size of the order that can be traded online has changed. 
It also pointed to section 31 of its terms and conditions which state that it is the clients 
responsibility to monitor the order. I note this was also something that Mr S was told in the 
telephone conversation on 13 September 2013.
I note what Mr S has said about not being made aware of the terms and conditions but 
LMSTL has said that before placing an order over the telephone on 13 September 2018 Mr 
S will have listened to a pre-recoded disclaimer that states that its terms and conditions must 
be accepted. It said this gives the option of proceeding to speak to someone on the basis 
the terms and conditions have been read and agreed to  which is what Mr S chose - or 
listening to a summary of the terms and conditions. In the circumstances I am satisfied that 
the terms and conditions applied to the share sale that Mr S instructed LMSTL to make.
I appreciate that having placed a limit order and knowing that the price had been above that 
limit on 14 September 2018 he expected that the shares would be sold. But LMSTL didnt 
guarantee the sale of the shares if the limit order price was achieved or bettered. Its terms 
and conditions make clear that there are circumstances beyond its control where orders 
wont be executed and that it doesnt guarantee an order will be executed. It has explained 
what happened, in that the number of shares Mr S was selling was above the brokers EMS 
on the day. This was something that the person he spoke to on 13 September 2018 wouldnt 
have known at the time of the call and was something beyond LMSTLs control. 
I think it was for Mr S to be aware of what was happening with the order he had placed. I am 
not satisfied that there was any obligation on LMSTL to contact him when the shares werent 
sold on 14 September 2018. As its terms and conditions make clear, it is for the client to 
monitor orders that are placed. I dont think it is unusual for firms providing an execution-only 
share dealing service to rely on the client to keep track of what is happening with the trades 
they make.
I have considered the period between 14 September 2018 and the sale of shares on 16 May 
2018. LMSTL told Mr S in its letter of 8 October 2018 that if he hadnt already sold the 
shares to contact the writer who would put him in contact with a dealing agent. He didnt 
contact LMSTL on receipt of the letter to sell the shares. 
In its letter of 4 December 2018 LMSTL again said to contact the writer if he wanted to sell 
the shares. I appreciate Mr S has said he didnt get this letter until LMSTL sent a copy at the 
end of December 2018. But whenever he received the letter, he didnt then instruct LMSTL 
to sell the shares. 
There was ongoing correspondence between Mr S and LMSTL after December 2018, but Mr 
S only confirmed he wanted the shares to be sold in an email dated 2 April 2019 which was 
in response to an email from LMSTL asking whether he wanted to sell the shares. There 
was email correspondence, with Mr S returning a postal dealing form on 3 May 2019 which 
LMSTL had sent to him on 5 April 2019. The delay was because Mr S was not in the UK at 
the time and wasnt able to scan the form until his return.
LMSTL has said that it could have sold the shares on 7 May 2019 if it had used the 
information already provided by Mr S in September 2019. It has paid the difference in share 
value to Mrs Ss estate based on the sale taking place on the 7 May 2019 rather than on 16 
May 2019, which I think is reasonable.
I am not satisfied that it is responsible for any other period of delay between 14 September 
and May 2019.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman