DRN-2122242
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded her £17,529.69 she lost as the result of 
a safe account scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mrs Ws complaint. As such the facts are well-known to all involved parties 
and so I dont intend to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mrs W received a text message, from who she thought was Lloyds, asking if shed 
carried out a transaction for £1,578 to a travel company. The text said she should call 
Fraud Prevention if she didnt recognise the transaction and a telephone number was 
provided. 
The text appeared to come from the Lloyds number and was in same text message 
history as other genuine texts from Lloyds  but the text was in fact from fraudsters.
As she did not recognise the transaction, Mrs W called the number provided and was 
told all the money in her accounts was at risk, and she should move it to a new 
account straight away to protect it.
Mrs W asked the caller how she knew it was genuinely Lloyds she was talking to. 
She was told she could check the number that was calling her, against the number 
on the back of her debit card  she did this and the telephone numbers matched the 
number on the back of her debit card.
Mrs W has said she was panicked and, thinking her money was at risk, set up a new 
payee with the account details the fraudster gave her. She went ahead and made 
two payments totalling £17,548.79 (one for £10,000 and the other for £7,548,79).
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Lloyds has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Lloyds declined to refund the money to Mrs W. In its final response to Mrs W it said it felt she 
didnt take appropriate steps to protect herself before sending the money. 
It also contacted the receiving bank to try and recover the money. It was able to recover 
£19.10, which has been returned to Mrs Ws account. 
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. One 
of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator found Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing she was genuinely 
protecting her money. He noted the initial text appeared to have come from a Lloyds number 
and was in the same text message history as other genuine Lloyds texts  and that it looked 
like a genuine bank communication. He added that Mrs W had called the fraudster back on 
what also appeared to her to be a genuine Lloyds number, that matched the number on the 
back of her debit card.  Our investigator said the fraud seems to have been professionally 
carried out to convincingly impersonate the bank.
Our investigator said Lloyds hadnt specifically said its reasons for not refunding Mrs W 
under the Code were because she ignored effective warnings. Our Investigator asked Lloyds 
to clarify details of its warnings on 7 April 2020, giving a deadline of 5 May 2020 for a 
response, but the bank did not respond.  
Overall, our investigator said Lloyds ought to have fully reimbursed Mrs W at the time she 
made her claim and so it should refund the remaining money she lost. He said Lloyds should 
pay Mrs W interest on the refund, calculated at 8% from the date it declined her claim to the 
date of settlement. 
The investigators opinion was sent to the both parties on 7 May 2020 with a deadline for 
responding of 21 May 2020. That deadline has passed and, over three months later, the 
bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Lloyds failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the Code, Mrs W ought to have been fully reimbursed when 
she notified Lloyds of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not she met her 
requisite level of care. I believe she did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mrs W to have received 
a full refund at the time.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mrs W ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the Code. I therefore direct Lloyds to pay    
Mrs W:
the money she lost (less the £19.10 which was recovered) - within 28 days of 
receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Lloyds declined Mrs Ws claim under the CRM to the date 
of settlement 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman