DRN-3273458
The complaint
Mrs P, and the estate of the late Mr P, complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mrs P and the late Mr P had had a bank account with Lloyds since 1995. At some point 
before July 2001, this was changed to a Gold account (Lloyds records about the account 
dont go back further than this date). 
In 2001, the account cost £8 a month, although this was waived if the account balance was 
above £1,500. The benefits that came as part of the package included free travel insurance, 
Sentinel card protection, an interest free overdraft up to £100 (if approved) and access to a 
lower-rate loan (if approved).
Mrs P says that she only discovered that they had been paying for the account when she 
looked through documents, after her husband passed away in 2016. She says they hadnt 
been told there was a fee for the account, and they didnt need the benefits that came with it. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs P didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P has said she wasnt made aware she would have to pay for this account. If that is 
what happened, I agree it probably would have been a mis-sale. 
A major problem is that this all happened a long time ago  at least 20 years ago. This 
means that, not surprisingly, there is limited documentation from the time. And, as it was so 
long ago, I also cant be sure how accurately Mrs P has been able to recall all the detail of 
what happened. So it wouldnt be fair to rely just on what she now remembers. And, in a 
situation like this, it also wouldnt be fair to make Lloyds prove that it didnt do something 
wrong that its been accused of. 
It's not clear whether Lloyds recommended the Gold account as being a good fit for the 
circumstances of Mrs P and the late Mr P. But, if it did advise them to take the account, I 
dont think it would have been unsuitable advice. Mrs P has said they did travel abroad, and 
theres also evidence of this on the account history. So they would have been able to make 
use of at least one of the main benefits  the travel insurance. If Mrs P and the late Mr P had 
other insurance cover elsewhere, they would have been able to cancel that other cover.  
And theres also evidence on the account history that they took a discounted Gold account 
loan, benefiting from the lower interest rate. 
So the PBA would have been potentially useful to them.
If Lloyds didnt advise them to take the account, it needed instead to give them enough 
information, so they could decide for themselves if it was worthwhile. Mrs P is saying she 
wasnt told about the cost  but, as Ive explained, I dont have enough evidence to fairly say 
Lloyds acted wrongly in this way. Assuming Lloyds did make clear the cost, I dont think it 
likely that fuller information about benefits would have made the Gold account seem less 
attractive  as Ive said above, there were aspects that would have been potentially useful to 
Mrs P and the late Mr P. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs P and the late Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman