DRN-3234561
The complaint
Mr W complains about Nationwide Building Societys handling of a chargeback request it 
raised on his behalf.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr W purchased a mobile phone online, using his Nationwide debit card. He 
says the company he bought it from told him it had gone into administration and stopped 
replying to emails. The phone was never sent to him and there was information on a website 
advising purchasers to ask their bank for a chargeback.
Mr W raised a chargeback with Nationwide who refunded the amount hed paid. But a couple 
of months later it told him that it wouldnt be able to uphold his refund because the 
merchants bank said the payment was valid. It took the payment back out of his account a 
few weeks later.
Mr W raised a complaint with Nationwide who said it had done what it could for him, but the 
chargeback request had been declined by the merchant due to a lack of evidence. 
Nationwide said it wasnt at fault for the dispute being rejected. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. 
He felt Nationwide should have done more to pursue the chargeback. He thought there was 
a high likelihood of it being successful if Nationwide had done so. He recommended 
Nationwide reimburse Mr W for the amount hed paid for the mobile phone (plus 8% per 
annum simple interest for the time he was deprived of the money).
Nationwide disagreed with our investigators view. It said it had followed its processes. It 
apologised for previously telling us that the chargeback was declined due to lack of 
evidence. It said it had appealed the case and this had also come back as declined. 
Nationwide said under the card scheme rules it didnt need to provide evidence for 
chargebacks. It just needed to fill in the dispute questionnaire with all the information from  
Mr W and it was up to the merchant to provide evidence refuting the claims. So, the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations require Nationwide to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme. While there 
was no obligation for Nationwide to pursue a chargeback on Mr Ws behalf, its good practice 
for it to do so if theres a reasonable prospect of success.
From what Ive seen and been told the chargeback dispute was raised on 20 November 
2020. I can see Nationwide credited Mr Ws account with the amount hed paid for the phone 
the same day. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the questionnaire it completed from information given to it 
by Mr W over the phone. The dispute reason is showing as: I cancelled the 
merchandise/service with the date of cancellation stated as 19 Nov 2020. Next to date the 
cardholder received or expected to receive the merchandise it says: 14 Dec 2020.
Nationwide has provided copies of documents it received from the merchants bank. There 
are two documents which are undated and at first glance appear to be identical. However, 
while one of them concludes with the dispute being considered invalid because the Issuer 
didnt meet the requirements for dispute with reason code the second one refers to the 
requirements not being met for dispute and Pre-Arbitration with reason code. So, it 
appears that the first document was in response to Nationwide initially raising the dispute 
and the second was in response to its appeal. 
The documents from the merchants bank refer to there being missing evidence that Mr W 
tried to contact the merchant to resolve the problem. They say there is a missing tracking 
number which the merchant sends for each successful payment. They say the merchant 
claims that the purchase was successfully completed, and the phone was dispatched on 
time. They also say that the timing of the dispute is contrary to the rules highlighting: Before 
initiating a Dispute, an issuer must wait 15 calendar days from the date the merchandise 
was returned.
Within the documents, the merchants bank included screenshots from what appears to be 
the merchants website. According to a screenshot, the merchant aimed to dispatch all items 
within 24 hours, with delivery expecting to take 3 business days, excluding weekends & 
public holidays. 
The merchants bank has highlighted:
Is my order tracked?
Yes, we will provide you with your tracking number once its within the delivery network & 
can be tracked online.
Nationwide says it didnt need to provide evidence for the chargeback. It was up to the 
merchant to provide evidence refuting Mr Ws claims. But when the merchants bank 
provided evidence to refute Mr Ws claims they referred specifically to missing evidence from 
Nationwide saying: Given the facts above the Issuer has been missed to provide proper 
documentation for submission of the dispute. So, I would have expected Nationwide to have 
asked Mr W for evidence to support his claim before moving to the next stage (pre-
arbitration). 
Mr W says he asked Nationwide to raise the chargeback request because the merchants 
website had disappeared. Hes provided a screenshot from a website (from the day he 
requested the chargeback) with a note from the merchant which says: We regret to inform 
customers that we have had to cease trading until further notice. We are unable to fulfill (sic) 
outstanding orders due to financial issues so please contact your bank or credit card 
company to begin a chargback (sic). We will not dispute this request and you will receive a 
full refund....The website address appearing on the confirmation of Mr Ws order doesnt exist. I also 
couldnt find one when I searched for the company online. Given the above, Im persuaded 
that Mr W wasnt in a position to try to resolve the issue with the merchant directly. 
Mr W has provided a copy of the email he received from the merchant when he placed his 
order on 6 November 2020 which gives an arrival date of 14 December and says the page 
will be updated with a tracking number on 12 December. This appears to contradict the 
timescales on the screenshots the merchants bank provided in their response to the 
chargeback request. While the merchants bank has pointed out that the card scheme rules 
required Nationwide to wait 15 calendar days from the date the merchandise was returned, I 
think this email is strong evidence that Mr W hadnt received the merchandise and it was 
unlikely that the merchant had sent it. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Nationwide did enough to progress Mr Ws 
chargeback request. I think it should have requested further information from Mr W to 
support the dispute and provided this to the merchants bank. If the merchants bank still 
disagreed, Nationwide would also have had the option of taking the case to arbitration where 
the card scheme would decide if Mr Ws claim should be successful. 
On balance, Im persuaded that Mr Ws chargeback request would likely have been 
successful if Nationwide had given him the opportunity to provide evidence to support his 
claim. Its also worth mentioning that there are a worrying number of reviews about the 
merchant online which suggests that other consumers have had similar issues as Mr W and 
the merchant may have been acting fraudulently. I dont think there is any reasonable 
prospect of Mr W being able to recover his money from the merchant. So, I think Mr W has 
lost out financially because Nationwide didnt handle the chargeback as it should have done.
Putting things right
Nationwide should:
Reimburse Mr W the amount he paid for the phone.
Add 8% per annum simple interest to the above from the date Nationwide removed 
the funds from Mr Ws account (22 February 2021) to the date the refund is made*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to deduct tax from this interest. Nationwide should give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman