The complaint
Mr O makes a number of complaints about Barclays Bank UK PLC following a request for a 
letter showing his address.
What happened
Mr O says he went to a Barclays branch and asked it for a letter showing his address that he 
needed. He says Barclays staff refused his request and shouted at him and discriminated 
against him based on his race. Mr O says Barclays has lied about what took place and has 
tried to blackmail him. He says Barclays has breached the Equality Act and has 
harassed him. Mr O would like this behaviour to stop and would like compensation for what 
took place and for the blackmail.
Barclays says Mr O went to its branch on 24 January on two occasions. It says Mr O asked 
for an overdraft on the first occasion and asked for an account statement on the second 
occasion. Barclays says it couldn't consider an overdraft application without further 
information and says it couldn't give Mr O the statement due to his account preferences. It 
says it is up to branch discretion about providing proof of address letters but that is not what 
Mr O asked it for. Barclays doesn't accept its staff behaved inappropriately in branch or 
during telephone calls with Mr O. It accepts it doesn't have CCTV of the branch visit.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought it wasn't our role to decide if there was racial discrimination or a breach of the 
Equality Act. The investigator didn't think Barclays had acted inappropriately during the calls 
and didn't think there was any evidence of blackmail.
Mr O doesn't accept that view and says Barclays has paid him £75 but that hasn't been 
investigated and it added adverse information to his credit file. He says he would like the 
harassment to stop and for Barclays staff to stop using his data.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that I don't uphold this complaint for the reasons I will explain. I appreciate that 
Mr O will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about this 
complaint. I make clear to Mr O that I have carefully considered all of his letters to us and the 
complaints he makes in those letters.
We are not the regulator of Barclays and so it's is not our role to fine or punish a business. 
And we are not a court, and so we can't decide if Barclays has for example breached the 
Equality Act or is guilty of a criminal offence. I make that clear to Mr O as I think the key 
DRN-1724475parts of his complaint is, that Barclays has acted in such a manner and those are issues that 
we can't help Mr O with.
It is clear that there is a dispute about what took place in the branch. Mr O and Barclays give 
different accounts about what took place. So In those circumstances I can't be sure what 
took place and it would be unfair to conclude one version is correct or more likely to be true 
than the other. In any event I can see that Mr O was able to get the address evidence from a 
different branch, and so I don't think he was caused a significant level of inconvenience. 
I appreciate Mr O says his credit file has been affected and that he received £75 
compensation. Those are not matters that Barclays has looked into in this complaint, and so 
I can't fairly comment on them or look at those parts of Mr O's complaint. I can see that Mr O 
has part of a final response letter that has details of the compensation, but he will need to 
make a new complaint to the business that sent him that letter.
I have listened to the calls between the parties, and whilst I accept Mr O was 
frustrated about what he said had taken place, I don't think Barclays dealt unfairly with him 
during those calls.
Overall I'm satisfied this brings and end to what we can do, in trying to sort out this complaint 
informally, to help Mr O. I hope Mr O appreciated that we can't deal with the main parts of 
his complaints.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman