DRN-3726330
The complaint
Trustees for the JD Trust complain about their advisers from the Openwork Limited network, 
following encashment of an investment. 
What happened
Following a death in February 2020, the terms of the JD Trust allowed its beneficiaries to 
receive their shares of what it held. At that time there were six beneficiaries. Four were to 
receive a one-fifth share each. And two were to get a one-tenth share each. 
All six beneficiaries decided to take the cash value of their share from the trust. That meant 
the investment holding the trusts money had to be encashed. Openwork carried out the 
administrative task of passing the encashment instructions to the investment provider. 
But the instructions came in two waves. The trustees  due to receive two-fifths of the 
investment between them  gave their instructions a week after the other four beneficiaries. 
To pass the first withdrawal instruction along, Openwork worked out the value of 60% of the 
investment  three-fifths  using its unit value for that day. They then told the investment 
provider to encash that value. But the withdrawal was done the following day, at which point 
the unit value of the investment had fallen. So to get the value Openwork had asked for, the 
investment provider had to encash just under 64% of the investment. 
A week later, the remaining 36% of the investment was sold. All of the proceeds then ended 
up in the same trust bank account. The trustees divided everything in the account at that 
point into fifths and tenths, and paid the beneficiaries their shares. 
That approach led to disputes between the trustees and the other beneficiaries. That in turn 
drove the trustees complaint to Openwork, set out formally on 1 February 2021. 
The trustees felt Openwork delayed encashing the investment from February to March 2020 
 a period where its value dropped significantly. They also felt Openwork shouldnt have 
acted on instructions from the beneficiaries without the trustees approval. And the trustees 
felt it had been wrong to divide the investment using its value rather than the number of 
units. The trustees also raised complaints about actions in the years prior to 2020.
In response, Openwork explained why they thought their service had been reasonable. They 
gave a brief history of the advisers that had worked with the trustees, but focussed on events 
related to the withdrawal. They pointed out that it was one of the trustees who had passed 
Openworks details to the beneficiaries, which in turn had led to instructions coming from the 
beneficiaries rather than the trustees. They confirmed the instructions had been given in two 
waves, and explained how these had been affected by the investments change in unit price. 
Key to Openworks position was that they said the investment provider only allowed partial 
withdrawals of a specific value, rather than specific numbers of units. 
Openwork acknowledged a delay in their complaint handling had caused distress and 
inconvenience for the trustees. So they offered to pay them a total of £300 for that. But the 
complaint wasnt resolved, and it came to us. 
Our investigator found the correspondence from 2020 showed Openwork had dealt 
reasonably with the requests they received from the trustees and beneficiaries, up to a point. 
But the investment provider told her withdrawals of a specific number of units from an 
investment had been an option available to Openwork in 2020.
From that, our investigator concluded the first withdrawal could  and should  have been 
smaller 60% of the units, rather than 64%. That would have made the second withdrawal 
larger. And  because the unit price had risen by the time of the second withdrawal  the 
overall money received to the trusts cash account would have been £549.55 higher.
Our investigator said that to resolve the complaint, Openwork should pay this amount to the 
trusts account. Itd then be for the trustees to decide how to distribute it to the beneficiaries. 
Openwork accepted that view. But the trustees asked for a formal decision, so they could 
consider their options to take the matter forward. So the case has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint, in line with what our investigator 
already set out, and Openworks offer. Ill explain my reasoning. 
The approach Openwork took to instructing the investment provider to withdraw 60% of the 
investments value was  foreseeably  flawed. It didnt do enough to consider the possibility 
of the unit price for the investment changing between the instruction being given and it being 
carried out. Openwork should have been aware of that possibility.
A better approach was to simply tell the investment provider to withdraw a set number of 
units  872,392.22. That was 60% of what the investment held. By not doing that, Openwork 
have caused an avoidable loss for the trust. Ill explain what this is shortly.
On the other parts of this complaint though, I find there are some points that dont really fit 
our time limits. A complainant usually has six years from an act or omission to raise their 
complaint about it. Some of what the trustees have added to their 2021 complaint are about 
things that happened  and would have been apparent to the trustees  prior to 2015. So 
they dont meet the time limits for our service. 
Other matters seem to be things the trustees were happy with at the time. For example, no 
encashment being made immediately after the death in February 2020. I cant see any 
instruction from the trustees to take that sort of action. And although the investments value 
was dropping rapidly at that point, that reflects the unpredictable global events of the time. I 
dont see Openwork had a duty to handle the investment any differently, prior to the 
instructions being given in March 2020.
Looking at those instructions, I find it was reasonable for Openwork to discuss the 
investment with the beneficiaries directly. One of the trustees had given the beneficiaries 
Openworks details to do exactly that. I find Openworks actions were in line with what the 
trustees did and could have been expecting at the time. That was a reasonable way for 
Openwork to act. 
But I can see it would have been helpful for Openwork to recognise the issues with the withdrawals. They could then have warned the trustees or beneficiaries that what was 
received from the first encashment was more than the 60% that had been asked for. That 
could have helped the trustees diffuse some of the dispute with the other beneficiaries. 
Putting things right
My main aim is to put the trust and its trustees in the position they would have been in if the 
service had been reasonable. Here that means units being withdrawn from the investment at 
different unit prices. And it means beneficiaries and trustees being clearer about what each 
wave of withdrawal had achieved.
The first wave of withdrawals should have seen 872,392.22 units sold at a unit price of 
£0.4250 each. That gives a total value of £370,766.69 for the first wave of withdrawals. 
The second wave of withdrawals should have seen 581,594.81 units sold at a unit price of 
£0.4347 each. That gives a total value of £252,819.26 for the second wave of withdrawals. 
The two amounts would then have been combined in the trusts cash account. Adding 
£370,766.69 to £252,819.26 gives a total of £623,585.96. Thats £549.55 more than was 
actually sent to the trusts cash account. 
So to put things right, Openwork should pay the trustees £549.55 for the value that the trust 
lost due to the unreasonable handling of the withdrawals. 
Itll then be the trustees duty to decide how this should be distributed to the beneficiaries to 
best meet the trusts terms. It looks like their position up to now has been to divide the total 
received to the cash account into fifths or tenths and distribute that. Taking the new total Ive 
directed, that would mean a one-fifth share of the investment was now worth £124,717.19.
Ive thought about adding interest to acknowledge the time the trust has been without this 
money. But the trust would have only had the extra money briefly, before passing it to the 
beneficiaries. So I dont see the trust has lost out on any growth or interest for the money. 
The beneficiaries may well have done, but they arent eligible complainants here, under our 
rules. My powers dont extend to directing compensation for the benefit of non-complainants. 
But I note the trouble and upset the trustees have experienced in this case. Much of this 
traces back to the mishandling of the investment withdrawal requests by Openwork, and the 
expectation this gave the beneficiaries about what they would receive. Had Openwork acted 
reasonably, some of that dispute wouldnt have arisen, or may have been easier to resolve. 
I cant undo that impact. But to acknowledge the added distress and inconvenience caused 
for the trustees, Ive decided Openwork should pay some compensation. 
I can see Openwork already offered £300 to the trustees for this sort of impact  albeit linked 
to a delay in the complaint handling rather than the actual issues Ive identified. I find the 
impact of both of those things is the same though  the emotional toll on the trustees. 
Ive decided the £300 offered is a reasonable figure in this case. It reflects that the emotional 
impact  arguing with family over money  is significant. But it also recognises that  in 
absolute terms  the actual financial loss caused for the trust is relatively small. 
This would be a personal remedy for the trustees, rather than a reimbursement of trust 
money. Itll be for the trustees to decide how to divide the money between themselves. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold part of this complaint about Openwork Limited. To put things right for 
the trustees of the JD Trust, Openwork should:
- pay the trustees £549.55 of trust money; and 
- pay the trustees personally a total of £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees of the 
JD Trust to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman