DRN-3604510
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) irresponsibly granted her a loan she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs P acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMF. Mrs P was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £111.85, a credit 
acceptance fee of £150, and pay an optional £10 if she wanted to own the car at the end of 
the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £6,240.65.
Mrs P says that BMF didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. BMF didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment including a review of Mrs Ps credit file which they used to 
compile an affordability score. It said those checks identified that the agreement was for less 
than 14% of Mrs Ps income and that there were no signs of financial distress at the time the 
loan was secured. They added that they thought Mrs Ps circumstances had subsequently 
changed but that they couldnt be fairly responsible for that.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. He thought BMF didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs P didnt agree and explained that in September 2019 she had stopped working because 
of health issues and that her and her partner had then struggled to pay their bills. She said 
that as she needed the car she had taken out additional credit and had relied on a carers 
allowance to keep up with payments before voluntarily terminating the agreement in 2021.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMF will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think BMF gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mrs P about her ability to repay. I say this because the credit check it 
completed highlighted no concerns. There were no county court judgements, defaults, or 
other signs of stress on the credit commitments Mrs P had. The income Mrs P had stated 
wasnt particularly high and even with that income it was clear, at that point, that she was 
managing her accounts well and that the new credit commitment under this agreement 
would be a reasonably small proportion of that income.
For these reasons, I dont think BMF acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
I think Mrs Ps disposable income after payments to her outstanding debts and towards this 
new agreement would have been about £635. That amount would have been available to 
cover household costs such as rent, council tax, food and bills, but as Mrs P was co-habiting 
at the time I think it would have been likely she would have received some support from her 
partner towards those costs too. 
I was sorry to hear that Mrs P had to stop working and that it became difficult to make ends 
meet. But that appears to have happened after BMF made their lending decision and, as 
such, it had no bearing on their assessment of affordability. 
So, I dont think there is evidence here that BMFs lending decision was unfair and Im not 
asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman