DRN-2693159
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) stopped paying out the 
income generated on the funds he held on Avivas platform, to his bank account. He says he 
suffered a financial loss as a result of this. 
Mr C is represented by his father, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr C throughout. 
What happened
Mr C holds investments within an ISA wrapper on Avivas platform that generate an income, 
which was being paid out to him rather than being redistributed across funds. 
However, Aviva say that following a change of bank details for payments into the ISA, the 
income payments stopped being paid directly to Mr Cs bank account. They say that this is 
part of their process to ensure money isnt paid to a wrong account. A payment was made in 
July 2018, and then not again until the issue was raised, and a complaint made in February 
2020. 
Aviva said that a new income mandate would need to be completed. They apologised that 
Mr C was not made aware that this was needed, and that no income had been paid out for 
over eighteen months. Instead the money accrued as a cash holding within the ISA wrapper.  
In recognition of this, they paid Mr C £100 compensation. 
Mr C remained unhappy. He said he had lost out financially as the income payments had 
been sat as cash within the ISA, not accruing interest and that he would have invested the 
amount had it been received as income, as this is what he had previously done 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Aviva had done what they should 
have. He said he would have expected them to have told Mr C if a new income mandate 
needed completing once his payment details had been updated. However, he thought the 
£100 compensation was fair. He didnt think Mr C had done enough to mitigate any loss as 
he hadnt noticed no payment going into his account for the whole period of time. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said the financial loss of interest for this amount, for the time it was sat 
as a cash holding in the ISA, was more than £100. As no agreement could be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Aviva have confirmed that the direct debit mandate for payments into the ISA was updated 
with new account details in August 2018. As such, they required a new income distribution 
mandate to confirm where the consumer wants income payments paid out too. Whilst I 
appreciate that is to ensure they are doing all they can to stop payments going to incorrect 
account details, I would have expected Aviva to have told Mr C about this. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that he was asked to complete a new income distribution mandate until 
after the complaint was raised in February 2020. 
This meant there was a period of over eighteen months where Mr C was no longer receiving 
an income. Whilst I do think this was due to Aviva not doing what they should have done, I 
also agree with the investigator that I cant hold them responsible for this whole period of 
time. In my view Mr C ought to have been aware that he wasnt receiving the income and 
taken some action to make Aviva aware and resolve the matter, as he did in February 2020. 
Aviva have paid Mr C £100 compensation for the error and I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I cant be sure what Mr C would have done with this income. Whilst he has 
suggested he relied on it or would have invested it, I dont think I can fairly say that was the 
case when he didnt notice he wasnt receiving it for eighteen months and didnt go to use it. 
There are also inconsistencies with what he would have done with the income payments. He 
has also said that it would have earned more interest or could have been used on his 
property. In either situation, I think £100 is fair compensation for the error and amount of 
time he was without these income payments, before he ought to have reasonably been 
aware. 
In conclusion, I agree it was an error by Aviva to not ask for an updated income mandate 
and this caused Mr C to be without income payments for some time. However, the £100 paid 
is reasonable compensation for this and I dont think it would be fair to award more when   
Mr C didnt do anything to mitigate his loss by noticing this error sooner. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint and 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited dont need to do anything further to resolve the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman