DRN-2077038
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr R complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sold them a life and critical 
illness policy they didnt need. Theyre also unhappy that Aviva didnt review their policy to 
make sure they were paying the right amount for it. 
Mrs N and Mr R also disagree with how Aviva has dealt with their concerns. This includes 
Avivas handling of their personal data and the action it took to rectify its mistakes. 
Mrs N and Mr R think Aviva should be subject to legal and regulatory scrutiny. They also 
want all the premiums theyve paid for the policy returned to them. 
What happened
Aviva upheld Mrs Ns and Mr Rs complaint about the handling of their data. It paid Mr R 
£625.
Aviva said it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. It said the policy had been correctly 
set up and it wasnt required to carry out reviews as Mrs N and Mr R had suggested. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator felt it shouldnt be upheld. He 
explained that he couldnt look at Mrs N and Mr Rs concerns about the sale of the policy as 
that wasnt Avivas responsibility. Our investigator also felt Aviva had done enough to 
remedy their mistake in the handling of Mrs N and Mr Rs data and explained that complaints 
about data breaches were for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to consider. He 
also said we couldnt look at concerns about bribery. Nor could we consider complaints 
about regulatory compliance  that being for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to 
consider. 
Our investigator also found there was no requirement for Aviva to carry out reviews on Mrs N 
and Mr Rs policy. He said they agreed to pay the monthly premium for the duration of the 
policy. And any review or change to that amount wouldve been contrary to that agreement.  
Mrs N and Mr R disagreed and have asked an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They 
felt Aviva was in part liable for the sale of the policy  given it was the business taking the 
premiums. They also felt we should consider their concerns about Avivas regulatory 
compliance and maintained that Aviva had tried to bribe them to stop them complaining to 
our service. Mrs N and Mr R also said that Avivas mistake in recording their address meant 
they were unable to make an informed decision whether to cancel the policy in 2016. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs N and Mr R feel strongly about this complaint and this will come 
as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
As our investigator has already explained, our service looks at the sale of a policy and the 
administration of a policy separately. Whilst its true that an insurer will benefit from the sale 
of a policy, its not responsible for any advice given on the suitability of the policy or the sale 
itself. Mrs N and Mr R have asked us to consider their complaint about the business that 
sold them the policy and so thats now being dealt with as a separate complaint. 
Ive also not considered Mrs N and Mr Rs complaints about the regulatory compliance of 
Aviva or its attempts at bribery. Were an informal dispute resolution service and our role is 
look into complaints and make sure a business has treated a customer in a fair and 
reasonable way.
We have no powers to look at the regulation of a business or to consider any criminal 
allegations, such as bribery. Such matters are for the FCA and the police respectively. This 
may be a matter Mrs N and Mr R would want to get legal advice on. It might also help if I 
explain the FCA doesnt consider individual complaints  but is the correct body to raise 
concerns with about the regulation of a business. 
So, my review has focused on Mrs N and Mr Rs complaints that Aviva didnt review their 
policy and that it hasnt dealt with their complaint about the mis-handling of their data fairly.  
I can see from the policy schedule and the terms and conditions that theres no reference to 
Mrs N and Mr Rs policy being reviewable. Mrs N and Mr Rs policy was designed to provide 
them with life and critical illness cover for a 25-year term. The agreed monthly premium was 
£52.99. These were the terms of the agreement between Mrs N, Mr R and Aviva. And there 
was no requirement for Aviva to review or change those terms whilst the policy was in place.  
So, I cant say Aviva did anything wrong here. Mrs N and Mr R couldve instigated a review 
of the policy themselves if their situation changed. 
Whilst I wouldnt expect an insurer to provide a policy holder with regular paperwork on a 
policy that doesnt fluctuate and has set terms  I would expect it to provide information 
when requested. I can see that Mr R contacted Aviva in 2016 asking for information about 
the policy, but this was sent to the wrong address. As was correspondence sent to Mr R 
about his complaint. 
Aviva accepted this was a mistake and paid Mr R a total of £625. I can fully appreciate how 
inconvenient this was for Mrs N and Mr R, and how having information about their policy 
going to the wrong address was worrying for them. But the action Aviva has taken here 
seems reasonable to me. And in line with what Id expect to see in similar cases. 
I have however considered whether Mrs N and Mr R were disadvantaged in any way by not 
receiving the information they requested about their policy in 2016. Theyve said they wanted 
this information because they were considering whether to cancel the policy. Aviva sent that 
information to the wrong address. And Mrs N and Mr R have told us that if theyd received it, 
they potentially wouldve cancelled the policy sooner.  I can understand the point Mrs N and Mr R are making here. But because we dont know for 
certain what they wouldve done if theyd received the policy information in 2016, I must take 
a view on what is most likely to have happened.
Mrs N and Mr R didnt contact Avia when the documents didnt arrive in 2016, and it wasnt 
until September 2019 that they contacted Aviva again and asked for the policy to be 
cancelled. Its not clear to me from the information Ive seen what prompted Mrs N and Mr R 
to contact Avia in 2019 and why the policy was cancelled. Given their main concern is about 
whether the policy was mis-sold to them, it mightve been driven by publicity around that time 
about the mis-selling of payment protection insurance. Or it might be because Mrs N or 
Mr Rs circumcentres changed. But given they didnt contact Aviva for three years and 
continued to pay over £50 a month for the policy, I cant say for certain that cancelling the 
policy was their intention back in 2016. 
I accept there was a potential loss of opportunity here in that Mrs N and Mr R couldnt make 
an informed decision in 2016 about the benefits of the policy because they didnt receive the 
information they requested from Aviva.  Although I should add that Mrs N and Mr R wouldve 
been sent information about the policy, including the monthly premiums, when it was taken 
out in 2005. So, they werent completely unaware of the policy details. 
The £625 already paid by Aviva does take account of the trouble and upset caused to Mrs N 
and Mr R. Taking everything into account, I maintain that this payment is a fair and 
reasonable response by Aviva in putting right its mistakes. So, I wont be asking it to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman