DRN-4453521
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that Stevenson Financial Planning Centre gave him unsuitable advice in 
2003 to transfer the value of his defined benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal pension.
Stevenson Financial Planning Centre was an appointed representative of Sesame Limited 
(Sesame) and, as principal, Sesame is responsible for the advice that was given. For ease 
Ive just referred to Sesame below. 
What happened
Very briefly, Mr G was a deferred member of a former employers DB pension scheme. In 
December 2003 Sesame advised him to transfer the value of his benefits in the DB pension 
scheme to a personal pension with Standard Life. A transfer value of about £136,000 was 
paid, comprising non protected and protected rights. A few years later, on advice from a 
different firm, Mr G switched his pension fund to two new providers. 
Mr G, via his representative, complained to Sesame in June 2022 about the advice given in 
2003 saying, amongst other things, that it had been unsuitable for him. Sesame issued a 
final response letter on 23 September 2022. Sesame said it had asked Mr Gs representative 
for further information which hadnt been forthcoming. Sesame said it couldnt make a 
decision about the complaint or undertake a loss calculation without that information. So it 
was unable to uphold the complaint. Referral rights to this service were given. But Sesame 
said it didnt consent to us considering the complaint as Sesame believed the complaint may 
have been made outside the applicable time limits. The investigator looked into that and 
agreed we couldnt investigate because the complaint had been made too late. Mr Gs 
representative didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider jurisdiction.
One of my ombudsman colleagues did that and issued a provisional jurisdiction decision 
setting out why he considered the complaint hadnt been made too late. He confirmed his 
views in his jurisdiction decision issued on 23 August 2023.
The investigator then looked into the merits of the complaint. He issued his view on 8 
September 2023. He set out a detailed background to the complaint and the reasons why he 
was recommending the complaint should be upheld. In summary he thought Sesame had 
failed to demonstrate that at the time transferring to the personal pension was clearly in Mr 
Gs best interests and to achieve his objectives. The investigator considered Mr Gs attitude 
to risk (ATR), his capacity for loss, his objectives and the reasons given for the transfer. He 
wasnt persuaded the reasons given were sufficiently compelling and such as outweighed 
the likely loss of retirement income from the DB pension scheme and on which Mr G would 
be relying to fund his retirement. The investigator said suitable advice wouldve been to 
retain the DB pension scheme benefits. The investigator set out what Sesame needed to do 
to redress Mr G.  
Sesame didnt accept the investigators view. Ive summarised Sesames main points:
The investigator had said our approach was generally to put more weight on written 
evidence from the time of the events complained of than later comments when 
memories may have faded. Sesame said the investigators view had been written 
with less regard to what had actually happened 20 years ago as set out in the full and 
detailed point of sale documentation and leant more towards a hindsight type 
approach. 
In 2003 Mr G had clearly stated on the ATR questionnaire (completed in his own 
hand) that he was prepared to take a higher level of risk with a view to achieving a 
higher return and that he understood that higher risk meant higher volatility. He also 
confirmed he was prepared to risk significant capital loss in return for the potential of 
increased capital growth. Sesame therefore disputed the investigators view that Mr 
G only had a medium-high ATR. And Mr Gs recollection that his ATR was cautious. 
The critical yield didnt make the transfer unviable as it fell below the regulators 
upper projection rate and within Mr Gs risk appetite. As to Mr Gs capacity for loss, 
he was only 35 at the time and he had time until retirement to build up further funds 
and was prepared to accept a degree of loss in order to achieve higher returns.
Sesame didnt agree that the motives for the transfer were generic and not of 
particular importance to Mr G. The advice process in 2003 was comprehensive and 
detailed. From the paperwork completed at the time, it was clear that Mr G wished to 
break all ties with his former employer and to have control of his own pension funds. 
Hed done extensive research into other pension schemes which were under funded 
and had serious concerns that it might not be possible to restore the DB pension 
scheme to normal funding levels and so it might be unable to meet its future liabilities 
if the company didnt survive. 
Mr Gs desire for control of his own pension funds hadnt been overstated. Hed set 
out in his own handwriting how he didnt want investment managers to have control 
of the funds. The other drivers  for example, death benefits, flexibility and the 
potential to retire early if affordable  were valid reasons and not generic. 
The suitability report set out the detailed discussions that had taken place prior to Mr 
Gs decision to transfer out and which made clear the drawbacks  the critical yield, 
the guarantees that would cease to apply and that the benefits would be dependent 
on the future investment returns. All that information enabled Mr G to make a fully 
informed choice about whether or not to transfer. 
The investigator shared Sesames comments with Mr Gs representative who said:
Mr G had confirmed he wanted to protect his money with little or no risk. Hed been 
told the main reason to remove the money from the former employers scheme was 
to protect it because at the time the scheme was underfunded and, as a deferred 
member, he could lose everything. Hed not long been made redundant and he was 
now being told he could lose his pension too. That was the driver for the transfer. 
Mr G had 17 years service, no significant assets or anticipated sources of income in 
retirement, aside from any state pension. It was too soon for him to decide about his 
only retirement provision. The DB pension scheme wouldve provided a guaranteed 
income for life with no worry about investment performance. Mr G wanted to protect 
his money and the retirement income hed built up over 17 years. He shouldnt have 
been put in the position where hed have to build up further funds. As the 
investigator had noted, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and 
facilitating whatever course of action a client wishes to take. 
The investigator considered the further comments before writing to Sesame again. Amongst 
other things the investigator said
Sesame had said Mr G had a high ATR whereas Mr G had said he wanted a low risk 
approach. The investigator explained he hadnt accepted either of those ATRs. The ATR profile had 5 risk levels with the lowest being no risk. The other levels, in 
increasing level of risk, were low, medium, medium to high and high. As the 4th, not 
the 5th highest ATR level, was marked, it's fair to say the customer was only a 
medium to high risk investor, not a high risk investor. The critical yield of 8.7% would 
only be risked by a high risk investor, not a medium to high risk investor as the 
regulator's assumed growth rates were 5%, 7% and 9%. So, the transfer wasnt 
viable for Mr G. And the critical yield of 8.7% applied if he took tax-free and would be 
9% if he didnt  so it was even less viable. The investigator noted that the funds 
recommended for the non-protected rights part of the transfer value (about £56,000) 
were said to be in line with Mr Gs ATR and which funds the investigator considered 
were medium-high, not high, risk.  
Mr G didnt have any other pension savings and only £3,000 in cash. He wasnt a 
member of another employers scheme. He was self-employed and the DB pension 
scheme was his only pension provision. He may have had time to save more into a 
pension but he wasnt currently doing so and Sesame didnt advise him to do that.
The investigator didnt think there was evidence that Mr G wanted to cut all ties with 
his former employer. Or that hed done, as had been suggested, extensive research 
into other underfunded schemes. The investigator noted what Mr G had said about 
what had been his main reason for transferring  the fear that he could lose his 
pension, having only just lost his job. There was nothing to indicate that information 
about the DB pension scheme's funding position, its future funding plans or the 
financial health of the employer had been obtained in order to give Mr G suitable 
advice. 
What had been said about Mr G wanting to control his own pension funds wasnt 
consistent with the investment funds recommended which would be under the control 
of different investment managers. 
The investigator maintained that the other drivers were generic and, although the 
drawbacks of transferring were mentioned, a transfer shouldnt have been 
recommended. 
Sesame didnt accept what the investigator had said and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But, before looking at the merits of the complaint, Ive considered jurisdiction. Were required 
to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of a complaint up to and until 
we issue a final decision. So Ive reviewed jurisdiction and in particular if Mr Gs complaint 
has been made in time. Having done so, I dont see any reason to disagree with what my 
colleague said or his views as to why Mr Gs complaint hasnt been made too late. 
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Ive also 
carefully considered the submissions made by Mr Gs representative on Mr Gs behalf and 
Sesame. Where the evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory, Ive made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities, that is what I consider more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence Ive seen and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I agree that the contemporaneous written evidence is important in considering a complaint. 
Sesame points to the documentation and in particular to the fact that some of it was 
completed by Mr G himself and so should be taken as providing a clear record as to, amongst other things, his ATR and his objectives and priorities at the time. I agree that the 
contemporaneous documents usually carry weight. 
Here, although Mr G now says he was cautious, the ATR questionnaire would suggest 
otherwise and indicated a medium-high ATR. I agree with the investigators comments that, 
as the highest risk profile box wasnt ticked, it wouldnt be right to say that Mr Gs ATR was 
high. But a medium-high ATR is difficult to reconcile with the low risk approach which Mr G 
now says he wanted to adopt.
But, in any event, even if Mr G was prepared to take a medium-high risk approach, it wasnt 
obvious that the transfer would likely result in higher benefits, which is generally the aim of 
transferring  thered usually be little point in giving up the guarantees available from a DB 
pension scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. So 
thered need to be a realistic prospect of the personal pension achieving higher benefits if 
invested in line with Mr Gs ATR. 
Sesame was required to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age 
(or other selected age). The higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative 
pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by 
the DB pension scheme.
Sesame recognised that the critical yield was slightly higher than what might be considered 
reasonable at the time. Given the factors the investigator pointed to, its doubtful that the 
required rate of return couldve reasonably been considered achievable. So the transfer 
probably wasnt financially viable. But financial viability isnt the only factor. A reasonable 
prospect of the critical yield being met or exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the 
transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there might be other considerations which might 
mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite the likelihood of providing overall lower benefits. 
So Ive gone on to consider the other reasons why the transfer was recommended: better 
death benefits; better tax free cash benefits at normal retirement age; satisfying Mr Gs 
desire to break all ties with his former employer and transfer the funds to an individual 
personal pension which would be under Mr Gs control and arranged to suit his 
circumstances and needs at the time; and being able to switch the non-protected rights part 
of the personal pension to a SIPP (self-invested personal pension) to buy commercial 
property. 
The lump sum death benefits available from the personal pension were no doubt attractive to 
Mr G. But the primary purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement, not act as 
a legacy planning tool. I dont think it was in Mr Gs best interests to prioritise potentially 
better death benefits over his financial security in retirement. And any lump sum which might 
be available on Mr Gs death would depend on how much, if any, of the fund remained after 
withdrawals, charges and investment returns. Im not persuaded transferring was justified 
because of the perceived superior death benefits the personal pension potentially offered. Id 
also expect to see life assurance options fully explored, rather than dismissed in favour of 
the death benefits potentially available from the personal pension. 
As to the need for more tax free cash or flexibility generally, Mr G was aged 35 at the time of 
the advice. The further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to justify 
transferring on the basis of what their wants, capital and income needs at retirement might 
be. In Mr Gs case, I think it wouldve been very difficult to predict with any degree of certainty what his expected expenditure during retirement would be  and therefore what 
realistic level of income and/or tax free cash hed need. The same is true for any early 
retirement considerations. Mr G was relatively young and unsurprisingly didnt have any firm 
retirement plans in place. And, even if he did, those might change, given the timeframe. 
I think the control objective was linked to Mr Gs concerns about the financial stability of the 
DB pension scheme and/or the sponsoring employer. It seems his understanding was that 
his benefits were at risk because the DB pension scheme was underfunded  although I 
understand the deficit was small. Proposals to introduce statutory protections (which I think 
wouldve been fairly well known by late 2003, given that the Pensions Act 2004, which 
introduced the Pension Protection Fund, received Royal Assent in November 2004) are 
mentioned but appear to have been discounted. And, although the suitability letter recorded 
Mr Gs concerns, I dont see that Sesame can point to those as justifying the transfer if 
Sesame didnt investigate how valid Mr Gs worries mightve been. Ive mentioned below that 
I find Mr Gs evidence on that issue  that he was panicked into transferring  credible. 
The suitability letter says Mr G intended to purchase a commercial property. But he hadnt 
found one and the practicalities involved, including how much a property might cost and if it 
was going to be for Mr Gs business or let to a third party, arent recorded as having been 
discussed. Mr G may have had an idea thats what hed look to do, especially as it seems he 
didnt think fund managers would deliver value and improved returns. But he didnt have a 
fully formed plan and which, in order to implement, he needed to transfer. 
Further, I think its important to consider Mr Gs circumstances at the time. Including 
whether, even if hed indicated he was prepared to accept a relatively high level of risk in 
return for the possibility of higher returns, his situation was such that sort of approach 
shouldve been taken and if he had the capacity for loss that might result. 
Mr Gs position at the time was uncertain. Hed been made redundant and he wasnt in 
pensionable employment. He was self-employed. Although in theory he had another 25 
years until he reached age 60 which was when hed indicated he wanted to retire, his ability 
to make further pension provision would depend on what happened in the future, including 
how well his business did and the level of pension contributions, if any, he could afford to 
make and whether he became employed again and had access to another employers 
pension scheme.
Mr G had 17 years service in the DB pension scheme. Those benefits represented his only 
pension provision (aside from any state entitlement). The fact find records that Mr G viewed 
those benefits as a major proportion of his pension funding. The benefits hed built up 
wouldve formed an important and secure baseline retirement income. I think its difficult to 
justify giving up that sort of guaranteed income (which would escalate in payment) when, 
although there was, in theory at least, still time for Mr G to make further pension provision, 
whether hed be in a position to do so was uncertain. And, if he remained self-employed, all 
his retirement provision would be on a defined contribution basis, which offered no 
guarantees, was subject to charges and entirely dependent on investment performance. I 
dont think Mr G shouldve been in a hurry to make an irrevocable decision to give up his DB 
pension scheme benefits when his situation was uncertain. 
Id also point out that Sesames reliance on the contemporaneous written documents seems 
to be from the basis that they demonstrate Mr G was put in a position to make a fully 
informed decision. I agree that, ultimately, it was up to Mr G to decide what he wanted to do. 
But the adviser had to give suitable advice. Simply providing information, including pointing 
out the drawbacks or risks of adopting a certain course and leaving the client to make their 
own decision, wont usually be sufficient. Similarly, it wasnt for Sesame to facilitate what Mr G thought he might want to do. I think the transfer represented more risk than Mr G, given 
his circumstances, shouldve been advised to take. 
As Ive said, Mr Gs recollections arent entirely irrelevant. By taking into account what he 
says he was told at the time, Im not making a decision based on hindsight. Rather Im 
considering, as Im required to do, all the available evidence and the wider circumstances. If 
theres a conflict between what Mr G now says and what the documentation records, that 
might mean Id be less inclined to accept what Mr G now recalls. But I find what Mr G has 
said about his main motivation for transferring  that he thought he was protecting his 
accrued DB pension scheme benefits  to be plausible and persuasive. It seems his 
understanding was that those benefits were seriously at risk. As Ive said, I dont think that 
was explored. It was up to Sesame to advise Mr G rather than take, at face value, what he 
may have understood the position to be and that his DB pension scheme benefits were at 
risk. 
Ive also thought about whether, if Mr G had been advised against transferring, hed have 
gone ahead anyway. Thats Sesames position. Sesame has pointed to Mr Gs email dated 
16 November 2003 as showing hed spoken to the trustees of the DB pension scheme and 
was clearly concerned about the scheme not surviving until he could access his benefits 
some years down the line. And the email confirmed that Mr G wanted to buy a commercial 
property with his pension plan. 
Ive already explained what I think about Mr Gs concerns about the longer term security of 
the DB pension scheme and that it was up to Sesame to address that, rather than simply 
accept what Mr G had said and point to it as a justification for the recommendation to 
transfer or as showing Mr G wouldve transferred anyway. The email reflects Mr Gs plans 
for the transferred fund and his reluctance to have the money under the control of fund 
managers. If Mr G did transfer, hed need to decide what to do with his pension fund. It 
appears that buying a commercial property was something he was contemplating because 
he didnt want his money to be subject to fund managers control. So it was a consequence 
of the transfer, rather than a reason for the transfer. It doesnt mean, if Sesame had advised 
Mr G against transferring, that hed have insisted on going ahead.  
I dont think a transfer shouldve been recommended, whether on the basis of Mr Gs 
concerns about the DB pension scheme, his interest in buying a commercial property or for 
any of the other reasons cited. If thered been no transfer, questions about how Mr G wanted 
to invest his fund wouldnt have arisen. If hed later wanted to pursue the idea of a 
commercial property purchase and found a property that mightve met his requirements, 
transferring out of the DB pension scheme to facilitate that couldve been considered then. 
And taking into account exactly what needed to be done to manage the property  I note 
here what Mr G says about not having the knowledge and experience to undertake that  
and how the particular property would meet Mr Gs needs and objectives, including in terms 
of his pension provision. 
From what Ive seen, Mr G was reliant on professional advice. I dont think he had any real 
investment experience or knowledge and Im not persuaded that hed have refused to accept 
a recommendation to retain his DB pension scheme benefits. If hed wanted to go ahead 
anyway, Im not sure if Sesame wouldve been prepared to undertake the transfer on an 
insistent client basis. If not, Mr G wouldve needed to have found an adviser who wouldve 
done and which mightve been difficult  its not unreasonable to assume that any new 
adviser wouldve given suitable advice which, as Ive said, wouldve been that Mr G didnt 
transfer. And they may not have been prepared to facilitate a transfer having advised 
against. So Mr G wouldve been no further forward.  For the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was suitable 
and in Mr Gs best interests. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint.
As to what Sesame needs to do Ive adopted the redress set out by the investigator in his 
view. I note the investigator emailed the parties the day after hed issued his view adding to 
the redress hed set out. 
The below redress includes provision to reflect the fact that Mr G obtained compensation of 
£50,000 from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). As Ive said above, 
after Mr G had transferred on Sesames advice, he later went on to switch his pension fund 
again following advice from a different firm. The pension fund was transferred in three 
separate transfer values to two different pension providers over a period of time. Two 
payments were made to one provider in June 2005 (about £34,000) and May 2006 (about 
£63,000). And another transfer value was paid in June 2006 (about £72,000) to another 
provider. In June 2006 Mr G invested £98,000 of the money that had been transferred to the 
first provider in the Curo Sterling (Valegate) Exempt Property Unit Trust. That investment 
failed. FSCS met Mr Gs claim in respect of that fund.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sesame Limited to put Mr G, as far as possible, 
into the position hed now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G wouldve likely 
remained in the DB Scheme. 
Sesame Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in Policy 
Statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4.
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation 
should be based on the DB schemes normal retirement age of 63 years, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, the 
calculation should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in PS22/13 and set out in DISP 
App 4, Sesame Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment after deducting the 
total compensation already paid to him by the FSCS for previous pension claims. If 
this deduction reduces the loss or total redress to be paid to below zero, then no 
compensation needs to be paid. 
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with 
the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment the 
current defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be used to augment 
the pension rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr G accepts Sesame Limiteds offer to calculate how much of the redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid directly to Mr G as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect 
of benefits that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with 
DISP App 4, Sesame Limited may make a notional deduction to allow for income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. His likely income tax rate in retirement is 
presumed to be 20%. However, if he would have been able to take 25% tax-free 
cash from the benefits the cash payment represents, then this notional reduction may 
only be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall notional 
deduction of 15%. 
Because Im making a formulaic award, I dont know how much any compensation will be. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000 (for a 
complaint as here which was referred on or after 1 April 2022 and where the act or omission 
was before 1 April 2019) plus any interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. 
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£170,000 I may recommend that the business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Sesame Limited to pay Mr G the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Sesame Limited pays Mr G the balance. 
If Mr G accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Sesame Limited. My 
recommendation isnt binding on Sesame Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Sesame Limited must redress Mr G as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman