DRN-3446454
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly increased her premium for her lifetime pet
policy.
HDI is represented by an entity which I shall call M.
What happened
Mrs T brought a lifetime pet policy for her dog through a broker in 2012 and the premium
was £366.00 per year for vet fees cover of £3,500.00 per year. At the renewal on 20
December 2021 she was asked to pay an annual premium of £2,036.16. Her previous years
premium was £1,682.76. So, she complained to HDI.
It initially offered her 10% discount which Mrs T said it later withdrew but HDI paid her £100
compensation.
Mrs T remained dissatisfied, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the
view that HDI should pay her an additional £150 compensation because there was no
warning given to Mrs T when she first bought the policy of how the premiums for lifetime
policies can rise during the life of the policy. M said HDI refused saying since it had been the
underwriter from 2015 it had warned on each renewal from 2017 about how lifetime
premiums can rise. It wasnt the underwriter at the time the policy was sold to Mrs T so it
couldnt be held responsible for any issues that arose before 2015.
Consequently, we then set up a complaint against the broker which I dealt with
separately.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 April 2022 and I said the following:
As the investigator explained were not the regulator so we cant tell insurers what 
premium amount to charge their policyholders. However, with lifetime policies we 
expect insurers to take into account the pets breed, age, gender and where Mrs T 
lived. HDI showed us they did that. Its commercially sensitive information which 
means I cant share it because we publish our decisions, but it also shows Mrs T 
wasnt singled out and treated any differently to anyone else in similar situation.
And also, since HDI became the underwriter given its various name changes too, 
from around 2015, and definitively since 2017, it has shown us that it did ask on each 
renewal as follows:
Have you checked that your insurance policy is still appropriate for your 
needs? You have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get 
the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop around, however 
alternative providers may not offer protection for any previous or ongoing 
conditions or claims.
And on the renewal in 2020 HDI said the following:
Like humans, our pets are more likely to be affected by illness as they get 
older. This means that every year your insurance premium will increase even 
if you havent made a claim. This increase will be significant if you have 
claimed.
However, none of this helped Mrs T when she first bought her policy in 2012, so she 
couldnt make an informed enough decision about whether buying this lifetime policy 
was right for her. So, as M said that HDI were not the underwriter at that time, its not 
fair and reasonable for me to decide this was its fault. In those circumstances I 
consider the £100 it paid to be reasonable also.
Neither HDI nor Mrs T raised any objections to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, and on the basis that neither party objected to the outcome proposed 
in my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman