DRN-4455369
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car acquired with finance from Zopa Bank Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Zopa. 
In December 2022 the engine failed. A recovery organisation who attended advised Mr H 
that the connecting rod had snapped and seized the engine.
Mr H complained to Zopa and said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Zopa didnt uphold 
the complaint. It said Mr H would need to provide evidence to show that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr H obtained an independent inspection report. The report said the connecting rod had 
snapped and that there was a hole in the engine block. The engineer noted that the car had 
covered around 10,500 miles since the point of supply and said the fault was unlikely to have 
been present at the point of supply, but that it could have been caused by a defect with the 
turbo, or by oil content/contamination.
Mr H sent the report to Zopa and asked to reject the car. Zopa said the report wasnt 
evidence that the car was faulty at the point of supply.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I said I was satisfied that the 
car had a fault because the inspection report confirmed that the engine had failed and that 
the connecting rod had snapped and there was a hole in the engine block.
I looked at the inspection report and said that although the engineer had said that it was 
unlikely that the fault was present at the point of supply, he had stated that engine failure 
was not to be expected in a car of this age and mileage and that durability may be an issue.
I said that I understood why Zopa didnt think the inspection report established that the fault 
was present at the point of supply. But I said that the issue of durability was relevant here, 
and that in light of the fact that Mr H had only been driving the car for around 6 months when 
the engine suffered catastrophic failure, I didnt think a reasonable person would expect 
engine failure within a relatively short time of getting the car.
I undertook research into the lifespan of a connecting rod and found that it should last the 
lifetime of the vehicle or around 150,000 miles, provided that the oil is changed regularly. I 
said I was satisfied that the car had been serviced (including an oil change) before it was 
supplied to Mr H and that I was persuaded that Mr H had also carried out checks on the oil 
level. I said that taking this into account, I was persuaded that the connecting rod had broken 
prematurely, and that the car wasnt sufficiently durable and therefore not of satisfactory 
quality. I said that Mr H should be allowed to reject the car.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Mr H replied and said he accepted my provisional decision.
Zopa replied and said that they remained of the opinion that the evidence didnt confirm a 
point of sale fault but they appreciated my comments about durability. Zopa disagreed with 
my recommendation that it should refund all payments made by Mr H since December 2022. 
It said Mr H had enjoyed fair use of the car as he had covered over 10,000 miles despite the 
faults. Zopa said it would be looking to retain payments for the mileage covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Zopa has said about fair usage. I acknowledge that Mr H has 
covered around 10,000 miles in the car in the first 6 or 7 months that he had it. This isnt 
particularly high mileage and as far as Im aware, Mr H made payments throughout this time. 
I havent asked Zopa to refund any of the payments prior to the point where the engine 
seized because I think its fair that Zopa retains these to reflect the fact that Mr H was able to 
drive the car during this time.
The engine seized in December 2022 and its accepted by all parties that Mr H hasnt been 
able to drive the car since then. Ive found that the engine seized because of a durability 
issue, which means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I dont 
think its fair to expect Mr H to make payments for a car that hes been unable to use 
because it wasnt of satisfactory quality. So I remain of the view that Zopa should refund all 
payments made by Mr H since December 2022.
In every other respect I see no reason to change the outcome from that which was set out in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Zopa Bank Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr H
Refund any deposit/part exchange contribution
Refund all hire payments made by Mr H since December 2022
Refund the cost of the inspection report £240
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file in relation to this agreementMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Zopa Bank Limited must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman