DRN-3249374
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt settled a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a bank account. The 
insurer was AXA. Mr and Mrs D had booked a family trip abroad in September 2019. The trip 
was due to take place between 16 and 27 August 2020. But on 24 July 2020, the airline 
cancelled the return flight.
Mr and Mrs D say they called AXA to discuss their options on 27 July 2020. They say that 
they couldve either cancelled the outbound flight and bought new flights with another airline 
for the same dates, keeping their original holiday dates and accommodation. Alternatively, 
they couldve changed the return flight with the same airline for two days earlier at no cost  
but this meant losing out on two days of the holiday and accommodation.
Mr and Mrs D say AXA advised that if they bought new flights with another airline, these new 
flights wouldnt be covered if the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO 
 formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO) advice changed. But if they 
changed the cancelled flight with the same airline to a different date, the flights would remain 
on cover if the FCDO advice changed, and there would be cover for the lost accommodation 
costs.
Mr and Mrs D say they acted on this advice and changed the return flight for 25 August 2020 
 two days earlier than intended. After their holiday, Mr and Mrs D made a claim for the 
accommodation costs for the two days they lost out on.
AXA declined the claim. It said this situation wasnt covered by the policy terms because 
only additional costs were covered, not unused costs, due to a flight cancellation. AXA 
couldnt locate any records of the call Mr and Mrs D referred to, so it couldnt say it had given 
any incorrect advice. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs D brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she wasnt persuaded that shed 
seen enough to say AXA had given Mr and Mrs D incorrect advice. And she didnt think AXA 
had done anything wrong when it declined the claim. Our investigator said cutting a trip short 
due to the return flight being cancelled was only covered in the on the way home part of the 
Travel Disruption Cover  but this only covered additional costs, and not unused costs, due 
to flight cancellation.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators findings. In short, they say AXA should pay 
their claim based on the advice they got on the phone. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is the advice they received from AXA  they say this 
has resulted in a financial loss. Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to find the phone call 
Mr and Mrs D have referred to  neither a recording nor any contact notes on that day. But 
Im satisfied AXA has shown it has tried to find these. 
In situations where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete  as it is here  my role is to 
make a finding based on what I think is most likely to have happened.
Firstly, even if I were to accept that AXA gave Mr and Mrs D incorrect advice, that doesnt 
automatically mean it should pay their claim. This is because Id need to consider if Mr and 
Mrs D wouldve done anything different, had they been given correct information.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs D have said was discussed during the phone 
call. Having considered everything, on balance, Im not persuaded AXA gave Mr and Mrs D 
incorrect advice that led to a financial loss.
Mr and Mrs D have said they chose to return early because AXA said this meant the flights 
would be covered if the FCDO advice changed, and there would be cover for the lost 
accommodation costs. I know Mr and Mrs D have said the advice on cover for flights due to 
the FCDO advice changing, and cover for the lost accommodation, were separate issues. 
But based on how Mr and Mrs D have explained what AXA said, Im not persuaded they 
were.
Mr and Mrs Ds policy did, in fact, provide cover for both unused flight and accommodation 
costs if the FCDO advice changed. I think the way Mr and Mrs D have explained the above 
advice from AXA can be interpreted to apply to such a situation. But thats not what 
happened here and what Mr and Mrs D eventually claimed for, as their intended destination 
was exempt from the FCDO advice during their holiday, so it didnt change.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds policy terms  the investigator set out the terms that are 
relevant to the claim. And as our investigator explained, the only section where their situation 
would be covered provides cover for additional costs. So, as Mr and Mrs Ds claim is for 
unused costs, I dont think AXA has done anything wrong when it declined their claim.
This further persuades me that its unlikely that AXA wouldve confirmed Mr and Mrs Ds 
situation was covered by the policy terms  especially since they hadnt yet made a claim. It 
would be very unusual for an insurer to definitively confirm cover on an initial claims call.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, but I dont think AXA has done anything wrong when it 
declined their claim. This is because the claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of their policy with AXA and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask AXA to accept their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman