DRN-2918831
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that UK Insurance Ltd (trading as Direct Line) decided to write his car off 
instead of repairing it. He also complains that:
He felt pressured into agreeing to the car being scrapped;
A £150 excess was deducted from the settlement, leaving him with just £650;
He didnt receive a full refund of the premium hed paid to renew the policy.
For ease, Ill refer to UK Insurance Ltd as UKI.
What happened
On 12 June 2020 Mr Bs car was damaged during a storm, but he didnt notice this at the 
time.
  
On 1 October 2020 Mr B renewed his car insurance with UKI. A couple of weeks later he 
contacted them to make a claim for the damage caused during the storm. Hes told us that 
he expected to pay the first £150 of any repair work due to the excess that applied to his 
policy. But to his surprise, UKIs engineer told him that his car would be written off.
Mr B disagreed  he didnt think the engineer could make a proper assessment without 
looking at the damage. He felt this was purely cosmetic and that the photos hed taken would 
confirm this. But he says UKIs engineer told him there was no point in sending his photos 
because the decision had already been made. Mr B says the engineer gave him the 
impression that he had only two choices  either to agree to the car being scrapped, or to 
make his own arrangements to have it repaired. 
Mr B says that, under normal circumstances, hed have made his own arrangements to have 
the damage repaired. But he says this wasnt practical at the time due to COVID19 
restrictions. Mr B says UKI told him the car would be marked as a Category N total loss - 
and that he thought this would affect its future value. He felt he had no choice but to agree to 
it being written off.
On 16 October 2020 UKI wrote to Mr B confirming what had been agreed. The letter advised 
him that his car had been valued at £800 and that a payment of £650 had been sent to him, 
due to deduction of a £150 excess.
On 28 October 2020 Mr B contacted UKI again. He told them hed only just paid his annual 
insurance premium when the car was written off, so he hadnt needed to use the insurance. 
UKI agreed to cancel the policy, but they didnt give him a full refund of the price hed paid.
Mr B complained to UKI about the way theyd handled things - but they didnt uphold it. They 
said their system calculated that his vehicle was a potential loss based on the level of 
damage recorded by their claims handler during his initial call. They said the details were 
automatically passed to one of their engineers, whod reviewed the claim and decided that 
the car would be written off. They said he couldve retained the vehicle, but in the end 
decided not to do so because hed need to find a garage able to carry out repairs during the 
COVID pandemic. They said the excess was deducted from the settlement amount in line 
with their policy terms - and that the refund hed received on his premium was correct.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint about his car being written off, by checking 
how much the car was worth before it was damaged and comparing this against the cost of 
the required repairs. He suggested to UKI that a fair valuation of Mr Bs car at the time of the 
loss wouldve been £1,465. UKI said that, having reviewed this again, they wouldve offered 
Mr B £1,200 because the MOT history showed hed been advised about work that would 
need to be carried out in the near future. 
Our investigator remained satisfied that a fair market value of Mr Bs car was £1,465. He 
thought UKI should pay Mr B the difference between this and their original £800 valuation. 
But as UKIs engineer had estimated the cost of repairing the damage to be over £1,600, he 
didnt think theyd acted unfairly by writing the car off. He wasnt persuaded that Mr B had 
been pressured into accepting this option. He was satisfied that UKI were entitled to deduct 
the £150 policy excess from the settlement and to apply charges for cancelling the policy, in 
line with their terms.
UKI didnt agree that our service should consider the valuation of Mr Bs car as part of this 
complaint. They said Mr B hadnt expressed dissatisfaction with their valuation  and that 
they may have been able to resolve his concern if theyd been given an opportunity to do so. 
They said they couldnt confirm whether they wouldve further increased their settlement 
offer to £1,400, but this was a possibility. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIs decision to write off the car
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly that his car shouldnt have been written off, because he 
didnt think it had suffered significant damage. This kind of decision is based on an 
assessment of whether its more economical for the insurer to pay for the policyholders car 
to be restored to the condition it was in before the incident happened, or to pay the cost of 
replacing it with another car of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition 
(the market value). 
Ive considered whether UKIs estimated cost of repairing the damage was reasonable and, 
if so, whether this wouldve been more than the market value of the car immediately before 
the incident. I can understand Mr Bs frustration at their engineer having made his decision 
without looking at the photographic evidence hed offered, so Ive also thought about 
whether this was fair and reasonable. 
UKI have told us that their damage evaluation calculator gives an indication of the likely cost 
of repairs, based on the damage Mr B reported when he first contacted them. Ive listened to 
that call recording. Mr B said the bonnet had blown back against the windscreen and bent 
part of the window frame upwards by about 30 degrees. He said hed called out a local chip 
and dent repair service, whod told him they couldnt help because the bodywork was 
distorted. He went on to explain that the edge of the bonnet had acted like a knife, damaging 
the stanchions of the frame around the windscreen.
UKI have told us that the case was referred to one of their engineers, who confirmed the 
repair costs were estimated to be more than £1,600. Im satisfied that the description Mr B gave was sufficiently clear to enable an experienced engineer to assess the parts and labour 
required to carry out effective and lasting repairs. 
Mr B said his local chip and dent repair service told him hed need to take the car to a 
bodyshop, but that he hadnt got any quotes. As Ive seen no evidence to suggest UKIs 
estimated repair cost was incorrect, Im unable to say theyve done anything wrong here.
Ive reviewed the market value of Mr Bs car immediately before the incident happened  Ill 
explain this process in more detail in the next section. As the car was worth less than UKI 
wouldve had to pay to repair the damage, I cant say they acted unfairly by writing it off as a 
total loss.
Mr B says he was led to believe that he only had two choices  either to agree to the car 
being scrapped or to make his own arrangements to have it repaired. Hes told us that, 
under normal circumstances, he wouldve had the car back to be repaired. But he says he 
was unable to do that at the time, because finding a garage able to carry out repairs was 
very difficult whilst COVID restrictions were in force. He says he was told a category N 
marker would be applied to the car  and he was concerned that this would affect its future 
value. He says he told the engineer that he wished he hadnt made a claim, but that he 
wasnt given the option to discontinue with it.
Mr Bs phone conversations with UKIs engineers werent recorded, so Ive been unable to 
review what was said. Where I cant be certain what happened, I have to consider whats 
most likely. Ive seen evidence that a category N marker wouldnt have been applied to Mr 
Bs car if hed discontinued his claim. But Im not persuaded that Mr B made UKIs engineer 
aware that hed prefer to have the car repaired  or that he wouldve cancelled the claim if 
hed been given that option. I say this because hes told us that he felt making his own 
arrangements to have the car repaired wasnt possible at that time. So, I cant say UKI have 
treated Mr B unfairly here.
The amount Mr B received in settlement of his claim
UKI accept that their initial valuation of £800 for Mr Bs car was incorrect. But they say he 
hadnt expressed any concern about this  and that they may have been able to resolve this 
issue if theyd been afforded an opportunity to do so. 
This service has an inquisitorial remit. Mr B complained to UKI about their decision to write 
off his car. This decision is based on an assessment of whether it was more economical for 
them to settle the claim by paying for repairs, or by paying out the cars market value. So, 
although Mr B didnt specifically complain about this, Im satisfied that I can deal with UKIs 
assessment of the market value as part of this complaint.
Our investigator looked at retail figures in the industry guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Bs car at the time of the incident. He 
considered £1,465 to be a fair assessment of the market value. UKI said that, since seeing 
photos showing the car to be in good condition, theyd consider a valuation of £1,200 to be 
fair and reasonable. Theyve said they reached this valuation by reference to an industry 
guide, taking a mid-range figure because the car was 17 years old and had MOT advisories 
pointing to an oil leak and discolouration of the rear indicators.
 
Mr B has provided evidence showing that, at the time of the last MOT in December 2019, the 
test centre offered to renew both rear indicator bulbs for £17. Hes told us that he purchased 
the bulbs and fitted them himself, which rectified the problem. He says he found no sign of 
an oil leak - he suspects this may have been residue of spillage that occurred when it was 
last topped-up.Having reviewed the evidence, industry valuation guides and the representations made by 
both parties, I dont consider it fair for UKI to make a deduction in this case for the cars age 
or previous MOT advisories. I say this because age and expected wear and tear are already 
taken into account in the industry guide valuations. Im satisfied that the oil leak was 
described as not excessive  and that the discolouration of the light bulbs was a minor 
problem that had been easily rectified before the date of loss.
I note that a settlement has already been paid, based on UKIs original valuation of £800. I 
dont think that was fair. I find £1,465 to be a fair valuation of the car  and that UKI should 
pay Mr Bs the difference between this figure and their original valuation. I calculate this to 
be an additional £665. As Mr B hadnt raised a specific complaint about the valuation to UKI, 
I make no award as to interest. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Bs car insurance are set out in the policy booklet. 
Section B explains the cover provided if the vehicle is damaged. This makes it clear that UKI 
wont pay more than the market value at the time the incident, less any excess that may 
apply. In this case a £150 excess applied to the policy, so Im satisfied that UKI were entitled 
to deduct this amount from the settlement paid to Mr B.
Refund of the premium
I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration at his car being scrapped when hed just paid to insure it 
for another year. UKI agreed to cancel the policy, but they made deductions for the period of 
cover theyd already provided and a cancellation fee. Ive considered whether this was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Mr B renewed his insurance with UKI on 1 October 2020. Hes told us that he then 
remembered to contact them about the damage  the evidence shows he made the claim on 
14 October 2020. Ive seen evidence that UKI wrote to Mr B on 16 March 2020, confirming 
the car had been deemed a total loss and advising him to contact them if he wished to insure 
a replacement vehicle on the policy. I dont find UKI to have been responsible for any delays 
here, so I dont think its unfair for them to rely on their standard cancellation conditions in 
this case.
Mr Bs policy booklet states that, if he cancelled his policy within 14 days of receiving his 
documents, hed receive a refund of the premium hed paid less a charge for the number of 
days for which cover had been provided. It goes on to state that cancellation after those 14 
days would incur and additional administration fee. As Mr B asked UKI to cancel his policy 
on 28 October 2020, Im satisfied that UKI were entitled to deduct a charge for providing him 
with vehicle insurance until that date, plus an administration fee. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct UK Insurance Ltd to 
pay Mr B £665 more for his car. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman