DRN-3761751
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined his cash withdrawal 
request in branch. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr B visited a branch of Halifax to withdraw £4,200 in cash before travelling 
abroad the following day. But whilst Mr B had his bank card and associated PIN with him, he 
didnt have other identification so the transaction didnt proceed. Mr Bs told us he asked 
branch staff and the manager to consider other options to verify the withdrawal but they were 
unhelpful and refused. 
The branch was due to close and Mr B has explained he went home, retrieved identification 
and visited another branch. By this time, the other branch had closed and Mr B wasnt able 
to complete the withdrawal. 
Mr B was able to rebook his flights and successfully completed the withdrawal in branch the 
following day. 
Halifax issued a final response to Mr B but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. An investigator 
at this service upheld Mr Bs complaint and asked Halifax to pay him £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and £16.80 to cover the cost of a taxi to the alternative branch. 
Mr B didnt accept and said branch staff shouldve considered alternative verification 
methods and that other branches had completed similar withdrawals without identification. 
Mr B didnt agree the proposed settlement was a fair way to resolve his complaint and asked 
to appeal. As a result, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand its Mr Bs view that Halifaxs branch staff ought to have done more to find an 
alternative solution when he didnt have identification available. And I can see Mr B was able 
to complete another large withdrawal and has told us no identification was required. Ive 
looked at what happened when Mr B attempted to withdraw cash in October 2021. 
Halifax has told us Mr B ordered £3,000 in cash but on visiting the branch asked for £4,200. 
Halifax has forwarded its processing guidance thats given to branch staff. And transactions 
at this level cant simply be authorised with a chip and PIN approach. Mr B explained he 
wanted Halifaxs branch staff to consider alternatives. But the process is largely systems 
driven and Im satisfied Halifax considered Mr Bs withdrawal request in line with its normal 
approach. Having considered everything both Mr B and Halifax have said, I havent been 
persuaded Halifax acted unfairly. As Mr B didnt have the necessary identification to 
complete the withdrawal in line with Halifaxs process, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
branch staff to decline his request. 
The initial branch Mr B visited closed at 15:30. Branch staff and customer services gave Mr 
B details of another branch that remained open later. Mr Bs told us that by the time he got 
identification and took a taxi to the other branch it had closed. And that meant Mr B had to 
change his flight plans. I dont doubt that rebooking his flight caused Mr B inconvenience. 
But as he didnt visit an open branch with the necessary identification to complete the 
withdrawal Im unable to say Halifax made a mistake. 
Mr Bs made the argument that Halifax unfairly denied him access to his money. But I 
havent found that to be the case. Im satisfied Halifaxs request for identification was in line 
with its account terms and conditions. 
Halifax has agreed to cover the cost of Mr Bs taxi and pay £50 to resolve his case. I am 
sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve his complaint, so Im not 
telling Halifax to increase the award or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr B £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused plus £16.80 to cover his costs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman