DRN-1284660
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc sent a letter intended for him to another customer. He 
also complains that TSB didn't tell him about the mistake for about eight months.
What happened
Mr T made a complaint to TSB in 2018 but it sent a letter about this complaint to another 
customer. He says TSB didn't tell him about the mistake until some eight months later and 
paid him £250 compensation which he says isn't enough. Mr T says this was a breach of his 
personal data and would like a full apology for what took place.
TSB accepts it sent  Mr T's letter to another customer. It says it told Mr T that in February 
2019 and asked the other customer to destroy the letter. TSB says the letter didn't contain 
account details and there wouldn't have been enough information within the letter for a fraud 
to be committed. It says its paid £250 compensation and offered Mr T an identification 
protection product.
Mr T was unhappy with TSB's response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought TSB had dealt fairly with it and paid a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation. The investigator explained what this service could look 
into and didn't think it likely the details could have been used to commit fraud.
Mr T doesn't accept that view and says his main point has not been addressed. He says he 
was told eight months after the event what had happened and that TSB must have known at 
the time what had happened. Mr T says TSB hasn't apologised for the delay and remains 
upset by its attitude to what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I've come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr T will be disappointed by 
my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what's taken place.
There is no question here that TSB made a mistake and sent a letter intended for Mr T to 
another TSB customer. I accept that Mr T was concerned about his account security and I 
also appreciate that he told TSB that he hadn't received the letter. In those circumstances I 
would have expected TSB to have checked the address of the letter earlier than it did. And I 
also accept Mr T was caused distress and concern about what took place and has spent 
some time trying to resolve matters.
The investigator has explained that its not our role to punish a business and I'm satisfied 
overall that TSB has apologised for the mistake in sending the letter to the wrong address. 
And I'm also satisfied its paid a fair and reasonable amount of £250 compensation. I think that award fairly reflects what's taken place here and that Mr T's account was not 
compromised or that there was any financial loss.
I don't think it possible to say exactly when TSB was  aware of the mistake. I have already 
said that it ought to have carried out further checks when Mr T called it  and I appreciate he 
says TSB ought to apologise for not carrying those checks out. But for the reasons I have 
explained I'm satisfied TSB has apologised for the letter mistake and I don't think its failure 
to carry out the earlier investigation justifies any further compensation.
Overall I find TSB has done enough in the circumstances of this complaint and so I can't 
fairly order it to pay any further compensation or issue a further apology for the delay in 
telling Mr T about the problem. I sympathise with Mr T and appreciate his frustration that 
TSB didn't take action earlier but am satisfied the compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman