DRN-3732239
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about TSB Bank plc.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. While I havent 
referred to all of Mr Es comments, I have considered everything and my reasons for my 
decision are set out below: 
Mr E says that his credit card account shouldnt have been transferred to a third party 
as he had a complaint outstanding that had been ongoing since 2018. Mr E 
experienced an issue with a payment he made in branch towards his credit card 
account in June 2018 not being received. He received confirmation of the payment 
by letter in July 2018. It did then take time for TSB to provide a final response to his 
concerns but in January 2019, TSB issued a final response letter.
Mr E says he didnt receive the January 2019 final response letter. This is 
unfortunate as it could have resolved some of the issues Mr E was concerned about. 
However, I find it reasonable to accept that the letter was sent and as the address 
was correct, I cannot say that TSB did anything wrong in this regard. The letter 
covered the issue Mr E had raised, apologised for this, accepted that the June 
payment had been made and provided a refund for this as well as payments to cover 
any other financial loss and compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
TSB also said it would amend Mr Es credit file. So, while I note Mr E says his 
complaint wasnt resolved to his satisfaction, I find that TSB had issued a final 
response which addressed Mr Es concerns.
Mr E was in contact with TSB, and I can see from his contact log that he had a call in 
March 2019 where he says he still hadnt received the letter. On this call he was told 
a copy would be sent and the repayment was explained. So, even though Mr E 
hadnt received the final response letter at this time, based on his notes he was 
aware of it and the repayment it included. 
Throughout 2019 and 2020, Mr E was sent arrears letters on his account. He has 
provided information of the calls he made during this period. While I appreciate he 
didnt consider his complaint resolved to his satisfaction at this point, I do not find that 
this meant the wasnt required to bring his account up to date and maintain it in line 
with the terms and conditions. Mr E had received the payments from TSB in January 
2019 to compensate him for the missed June 2018 payment and associated issues 
and I think it would have been reasonable, even if he felt further explanation was 
needed, that he would have brought his account up to date at this point.
Mr Es credit card account remained in arrears for an extended period. Mr E was sent 
several letters about the status of his account and the consequences of not clearing 
the arrears. In the second half of 2020, Mr E was sent letters setting out the situation 
on his account and saying that TSB may accept a reduced payment amount. 
Throughout this time Mr Es statements showed the minimum monthly payment 
amounts required and so I find it reasonable to accept that Mr E was reasonably 
aware of the amount he needed to pay and that the amount set out in the letter was a 
reduction on this. While Mr E made payments towards his account and I note he has 
said these were above the reduced payment amounts being requested, the letter set 
out that a reduced payment amount may be accepted for a period of time and that 
Mr E should call to discuss this. While Mr E did contact TSB about his complaint 
during this period, I cannot see that he discussed the reduced payment amounts or 
set up a repayment plan. Therefore, I cannot say TSB was wrong to continue to send 
Mr E the letters about his arrears and possible action that could be taken on his 
account.
In August 2021, TSB decided to transfer Mr Es account to Customer Debt 
Recoveries. This followed several months of Mr Es account being in arrears. I 
appreciate that Mr E was making payments but as these werent the minimum 
amounts as set out in his statements, he wasnt adhering to the required payment 
amount on his account. 
Mr E was sent a default notice setting out what he needed to do to prevent a default 
being applied to his account and setting out the consequences of not making the 
required payment. He was also sent a final demand letter. As he didnt make the 
required payments a default was recorded, and Mr Es account was closed. I 
understand this wasnt the outcome Mr E wanted but I do not find I can say that TSB 
did anything wrong or treated Mr E unfairly by taking this action. 
Mr Es account was then transferred to a third-party debt collection agency. I 
understand why Mr E wishes for his account to remain with TSB but given the 
extended period of arrears, and the notice given before his account was closed, I do 
not find I can say that TSB acted unfairly or unreasonable by transferring Mr Es 
account.
I know Mr E will not be happy with my decision and I understand that the issues 
started with an error by TSB. But the initial issue was addressed and as Mr E didnt 
then bring his account up to date and maintain it in line with the terms and conditions, 
I do not find I can say TSB did anything wrong by taking the actions it did.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman