DRN-3627808
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold timeshare products and the loans used to 
finance the purchases. The loans were provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook).
Mr and Mrs H have been represented by a claims management business, which Ill refer to 
as P. Where I refer to Mr and Mrs Hs submissions and arguments, I include those made 
on their behalf. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs H were existing members of Diamond Resorts European Collection (the 
Club), a holiday and timeshare club. They had been members of the Club and its 
predecessors since 2002. Over the years they had bought a total of 15,000 Points Rights in 
the Club, which they could exchange for holidays, accommodation and other similar benefits. 
They had bought Points Rights on four separate occasions. 
In April 2015 Mr and Mrs H bought a further 7,500 Points Rights at a cost of £5,550. In 
December 2015 they bought another 7,500 Points Rights for £5,700. Each of the purchases 
in 2015 was funded with a loan from Shawbrook for the full price. The seller in each case 
was Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited (DRL). 
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs H complained to Shawbrook. They said, in summary:
DRL had misled them about the purchases they made in 2015. The effect of section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was that they had a claim against Shawbrook in the 
same way they had a claim against DRL. 
Shawbrook was guilty of inducing a breach of fiduciary duty on the part of DRL.
The loan agreements created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.   
After seeking DRLs comments, Shawbrook did not agree that Mr and Mrs H had a valid 
claim under section 75. Nor did it accept the other matters about which they had complained. 
Mr and Mrs H therefore referred the matter to this service. In doing so, they expanded upon 
and added to the points they had made to Shawbrook. They added more points in the 
course of our investigation. The issues comprising the complaint now include:
The sales process was high-pressured and lengthy. Mr and Mrs H were not given time 
to read and consider the documents and felt they had to sign immediately. 
They were told that the price for the Points Rights was only available on the day.
They were told that use of club resorts was exclusive to members, but they were 
available to non-members as well. 
They were told that membership points could be traded and that they would produce a 
guaranteed yearly income. 
Since 2010 they had not received notice of annual meetings, as was their entitlement. 
DRL had breached regulation 26 of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 Regulations), which require 
payments to be taken in yearly instalments of equal value. 
The contract could potentially continue indefinitely. 
They had not been told in advance that they were to attend a sales presentation, in 
breach of the 2010 Regulations. 
Members had no control over the costs of membership, so the sale contract included 
terms which were unfair within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) and was therefore wholly unenforceable. 
The commission paid to DRL for arranging the loan had not been disclosed.  
There was no benefit from being a club member, since resort accommodation was 
available online for less than the cost of membership.  
The Club plans to sell a proportion of its portfolio accommodation in the coming years, 
so availability will become more of a problem. 
Mr and Mrs H did not say which of their concerns applied to which of the two sales, or 
whether they applied to both. 
When the case was referred to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that it be upheld. Mr and Mrs H did not accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case. Their reasons for 
doing so included some of the points I have summarised above. 
On 5 May 2023  that is, after the investigators assessment and Mr and Mrs Hs response 
to it  the High Court issued its judgment on a judicial review of two decisions of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in respect of timeshare cases ([2023] EWHC 1069).
On 25 May 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Both the April 2015 and the December 2015 purchase agreements were made between Mr 
and Mrs H as buyer and DRL as seller. Both were agreements for the sale and purchase of 
Points Rights. DRL is also named as the supplier in Shawbrooks documentation. 
I am satisfied therefore that the loan was arranged by DRL under existing arrangements with 
Shawbrook. Indeed, that does not appear to be in dispute. I must therefore consider what Mr 
and Mrs H have said about the actions of DRL.
Misrepresentation and breach of contractA misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract does not do what it has agreed to 
under the contract. There can be a breach if it is clear that one party will not do what it has 
agreed to do. 
In order to establish whether a party has a valid claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, it is necessary therefore to consider the contract terms. I must however 
also consider the wider context in which the sales took place. In particular in this case, I think 
it is significant  as both DRL and Shawbrook have noted  that Mr and Mrs H were existing 
members of the Club, that they had been for many years, and that the purchases in April and 
December were the fifth and sixth they had made. 
Contractual documents         
I note that Mr and Mrs H say that the Points Rights were poor value for money, because they 
could have secured the same accommodation more cheaply. I make no comment on that, 
save to say that poor value is not, of itself, a ground for a claim.
The sale and purchase contracts were in the same standard form and were produced by 
DRL. Each included a 3-page purchase agreement, a Key Information document, and a 
Customer Compliance Statement. 
By clause 4 of the Terms and Conditions Mr and Mrs H acknowledged receipt of the Key 
Information Document, Inventory Schedule, Withdrawal Form, Annual Global Reservations 
Directory, Resort Disclosure Booklet, the Governing Documents Booklet and the Rules and 
Regulations of the Club. 
DRLs Terms and Conditions also included, at clause 5, a statement that customers should 
not buy points as an investment. 
Clause 6 was an entire agreement clause, telling buyers that if they were relying on verbal 
promises, they should be put it in writing.
Clause 7 said that, if any part of the contract was invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the rest of 
the contract would remain valid and enforceable. 
Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document said that the club would be dissolved on 
31 December 2054. Part 3, section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. 
It explained that membership could be transferred in some circumstances. It also explained 
how members could relinquish membership. 
The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan, 
spread over two pages. Mr and Mrs H ticked each of them and signed each page. The 
statements included: 
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (my 
emphasis) (4);
a statement that the members understood that there was no resale or buyback 
programme for Points Rights (12);
confirmation that they were able to meet the financial commitments under any finance 
agreement (17);a statement that they understood that DRL was not independent, but that it worked with 
credit providers and that it was entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit 
brokered (18);
confirmation that they had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for him, and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation they had read the purchase agreement, key information and any finance 
document and were happy to proceed (21);
confirmation that they understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which they had relied 
(22).
A signature on these statements does not of course mean that they were true. But if they 
were not true, I would have expected Mr and Mrs H, in bringing this complaint and 
addressing Shawbrooks response to it, to explain why they signed the documents and why, 
having done so, they did not exercise their right of withdrawal [if] they were unhappy. 
It is relevant too that the purchase contracts were clear that Mr and Mrs H would not be able 
to rely on any oral representations and that they confirmed they had been given plenty of 
time to consider the purchases. Further, even if Mr and Mrs H felt they had been rushed into 
the agreement, they had 14 days in which to review it and withdraw if they werent happy. 
I agree that it is significant that Mr and Mrs H were long-standing Club members at the time 
of the purchases in 2015. They must have been aware of how the Club operated. The fact 
that they had made four separate purchases of Points Rights even before Shawbrooks 
involvement suggests that they were happy to buy more points and did so knowing what to 
expect. For example, they must have known about the system for booking accommodation 
and that resorts were not exclusive to members. They would have known too that it was not 
unusual for DRL to seek to sell further points to existing members and that they would be 
offered incentives to buy. 
I note too that, despite Mr and Mrs Hs concerns about availability of accommodation, they 
were able make 15 bookings between November 2015 and December 2017  four of which 
they cancelled several months in advance.       
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a misrepresentation claim against DRL would 
succeed in this case. 
P said that Mr and Mrs H had been Club members since 2010 and that they had not 
received notice of annual general meetings, as they were entitled to do. DRL said that was 
not the case. In noting that Mr and Mrs H had in fact been members since 2002, it 
acknowledged that they had not received proper notice in 2015. Otherwise, they had been 
sent notice by email; on all but one occasion, those emails had been opened.   
Even if Mr and Mrs H did not receive notice of one or more meetings as was their contractual 
entitlement, they do not allege that any loss has resulted. In the absence of any loss, Mr and 
Mrs H cannot have a claim for breach of contract.   
P says too that the way in which the club operates means that there will be no 
accommodation available to points-based members before the club is wound up in or shortly 
after 2054. I accept that might be a possibility, especially if fractional ownership properties 
are sold to third parties and are not replaced by new properties. But it does not seem to me 
that that scenario is any more or less likely than any other breach occurring at some point in the future. I do not believe that I can fairly say that the possibility of that happening could 
give rise to a claim for breach of contract now.     
It follows that Shawbrooks decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act was reasonable.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In deciding whether to make orders under these provisions, a court can consider any linked 
agreement  which in this case would include the 2015 contracts with DRL. For the reasons I 
have explained, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the basis of misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
P has however suggested other grounds of unfairness, which Ill discuss.
Mr and Mrs H say that the sales presentations were pressured and that, in breach of the 
2010 Regulations, they were not told they were attending a sales presentation. That is in 
dispute. Be that as it may, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs H must have found out some time 
before they signed each purchase agreement that they were at a sales presentation. And 
they had 14 days in which to reconsider their decision to buy and to withdraw from the sales 
and the loans, without penalty. I would comment as well that, if Mr and Mrs H felt they had 
been put under undue pressure in April 2015, it seems unlikely that they would have agreed 
to buy more points in December of the same year.  
P says too that DRL was in breach of regulation 26 of the 2010 Regulations, which prohibits 
single payments for long-term holiday products. But Mr and Mrs H did not enter into a long-
term holiday product contract, which is defined in regulation 8. Theirs were timeshare 
contracts, defined in regulation 7. 
P says that the term dealing with maintenance and management fees did not allow Mr and 
Mrs H to calculate what those fees would be and that it was therefore unfair within the 
meaning of UTCCR. So far as is relevant to this complaint, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) came into force on 26 March 2015 and replaced UTCCR for contracts made after 
that date. The relevant provisions are however not materially different from those in UTCCR.   
A term which is unfair within the meaning of CRA is unenforceable. Examples of terms 
which might be unfair include a term where a supplier is able unilaterally to alter the price 
attached to a contract, to the detriment of the consumer. 
The sale contracts did not specify what the fees would be in the future. I dont believe it 
would be possible for it to do so, given they will arise annually until 2054. But the contracts 
did explain what the fees would cover and how they would be calculated. In the 
circumstances, I think it unlikely that a court would conclude that the relevant terms are 
unfair. Even if it did, the result under CRA is that the term is unenforceable, not that the 
entire contract falls. 
P submits too that, in arranging the loans, DRL was acting as agent for Mr and Mrs H and 
therefore owed them a fiduciary duty. I dont believe that was the case, however; that would 
be at odds with section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, the effect of which is that a broker 
acts as agent for the lender. DRL was acting as supplier of the Points Rights and of club membership. It was not providing an impartial recommendation or advice to Mr and Mrs H. 
The Customer Compliance Statement confirmed that. 
I make similar observations in respect of the complaint that commission wasnt disclosed. 
DRL told Mr and Mrs H that a commission might be paid, but it was under no duty to say 
how much it would be unless asked. I have no reason to think that, if Mr and Mrs H had 
asked about the level of commission, they would have been told what it was. 
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would make orders under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act. It follows again that Shawbrooks response to this part of the 
complaint was reasonable. 
Affordability
Mr and Mrs H say that proper assessments were not made to ensure they could afford the 
loans. I note that both loans were repaid in August 2016. Mr and Mrs H have not suggested 
however that they had any difficulty in making repayments. The Customer Compliance 
Statements indicate that DRL did discuss the loan with them, although it was for Shawbrook 
to assess whether it was suitable and affordable. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs H were able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, mean 
that the loans were in fact affordable, still less that Shawbrook properly assessed 
affordability. It is however an indication that they were, and that more detailed assessments 
are unlikely to have made any real difference overall.
Judicial review 
P has not made any additional arguments as a result of the recent judicial review. For 
completeness, however, I would add that, having considered the judgment myself, I am not 
persuaded it provides any reason for me to depart from the investigators overall 
conclusions.  
Conclusion 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs H have a claim against DRL or, 
therefore, whether they have a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor do I 
have any power to make orders under section 140A and section 140B of the same Act, or to 
decide whether a contract term is unfair under CRA. Nor can I make a ruling on whether 
DRL was in breach of the 2010 Regulations. They are however matters which I must take 
into account in deciding what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
have done that and concluded that Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Hs claims was 
reasonable. 
Neither Mr and Mrs H nor Shawbrook replied to my provisional decision with any substantive 
comments, and the time I allowed for them to do so has now expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I have received no further evidence or arguments in response to my provisional decision, 
I do not believe there is any reason to change the conclusions I reached in it. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and do 
not require Shawbrook Bank Limited to take any further steps to resolve it.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman