DRN-3520444
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of Mr P and the estate of the late Ms G, complains that Santander UK Plc 
have not upheld his claim for a number of disputed transactions on an account in Ms Gs 
name.    
What happened
Following the unfortunate passing of Ms G, Mr B looked into her financial affairs as part of 
his duty to the estate and found a number of transactions which he felt were suspicious. 
Ms G held a joint account with a family member, Mr P. It appears that Mr P was a party to 
the account to keep an eye on Ms Gs financial situation, but the account was used for      
Ms Gs day to day needs. 
In June 2019, a caution was placed on the account after Santander received a call from    
Ms G and had concerns that she was being coerced to make changes to the account as they 
could hear someone elses voice in the background.
In December 2019, Ms G opened a separate account in her sole name and transferred over 
£81,000 from the joint account, as well as £4,000 from a separate savings account. On        
2 March 2020, a transfer was made to the council for £1,793.50. Following this, there was a 
series of cash withdrawals on the account. These started with a few sporadic withdrawals 
and slowly increased in frequency until late August 2020. 
Mr B raised a disputed transaction claim with Santander. He explained that a family member, 
who I will refer to as FM for the purposes of this decision, had taken advantage of Ms G by 
manipulating her and coercing her into giving him money. He explained that FM had taken a 
set of Ms Gs flat keys so he could let himself in as he pleased. Mr B explained that as the 
cash withdrawals largely happened at ATMs in different areas, it wouldnt have been 
possible for Ms G to have withdrawn the cash herself as she was largely housebound at the 
time. 
Santander issued a final response on 4 December 2020 explaining that the genuine card 
and PIN were used for all the withdrawals. As there was no indication that the card was not 
in Ms Gs possession, and the account was in her sole name so no third party would have 
been contacted about its application, it denied the claim for a refund. It also explained that 
despite the caution placed on the joint account, as this was a separate account which Ms G 
opened herself, there was no indication of any concerns.
Mr B disagreed with this and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint and felt Santanders decision to decline the claim was reasonable in the 
circumstances. She explained that as the genuine card and correct PIN were used, its more 
likely either Ms G authorised the payments herself or gave her consent for someone to use 
the card on her behalf. And without testimony from Ms G herself, it isnt possible to know 
what her intentions were, or if she was financially abused. 
Mr B did not agree with this. He said that he had initially spoken to a member of staff at the 
branch Ms G attended and they confirmed that they felt a suspicious male had been with her 
on one occasion. However, when the police finally contacted the branch, the member of staff 
changed his story. Mr B feels that Santander changed its position as an organization and 
suggests it made the member of staff change his testimony. He reiterated that Ms G could 
not have made the withdrawals herself and would not have permitted anyone else to have 
her bank card or know her PIN. 
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Santanders decision not to refund the disputed transactions is 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Generally, Santander is able to hold the estate of Ms G liable for the disputed transactions if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. 
This position is confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms 
and conditions of her account.
Im satisfied the genuine card and PIN were used for the cash withdrawals. While this is 
important, it isnt enough on its own to say the estate of Ms G is liable for the transactions. I 
also have to think its more likely than not that Ms G herself made or otherwise authorised 
the transactions. 
Firstly, I want to focus on the opening of the sole account. Mr B has raised concerns about 
this and thinks it should have flagged as suspicious due to the caution on Ms Gs joint 
account. Having carefully considered this, I think it was reasonable that Santander opened 
the sole account and allowed Ms G to transfer the £81,000 without any further checks. I say 
this because the sole account was opened in branch, in Ms Gs name only, and the funds 
were transferred at the same time. Which means Ms G was moving funds between her own 
accounts and not to any third parties and did so in person at the branch. Had the funds been 
transferred to a third party, it may be different. But this therefore appeared to be normal 
account activity and not something I would expect Santander to flag, even with the fact there 
was a caution on Ms Gs joint account. 
I appreciate Mr B has said he spoke to a member of staff at Santander who initially raised 
concerns about Ms G when she was in the branch, but later recanted his statement. 
Unfortunately, because the branch in which the account was opened has since closed, it 
isnt possible for me to get a statement from any members of staff that were present. As     
Mr B has explained there has been inconsistency in the testimony, and I dont have a first-
hand account of what happened, I dont think I can place much weight on Mr Bs comments 
on what the member of staff said. 
The sole account was opened in December 2019 and a total of £85,000 was transferred into 
the account on that day. There was then no further movement on the account until March 
2020. At that point, there was a faster payment transfer of £1,793.50 to the council and a 
cash withdrawal of £200. This was completed in branch and so Ms G would have been 
present. I have checked the details of the transfer to the council as Mr B had concerns about 
its authenticity, and from what I can see, this appears to be a genuine payment to the council. 
Following this, there were a number of cash withdrawals from the account, starting out 
sporadically with just a few withdrawals from March to May and increasing to eight 
withdrawals in August. Mr B has said due to the locations of the withdrawals, Ms G could not 
have made them herself. And that Ms G would not have needed the amount of cash 
withdrawn for her day to day living. 
From what Mr B has said, I dont doubt the later transactions at least would likely not have 
been made by Ms G herself. Hes explained that she became largely housebound and would 
not have been able to travel to the various locations  the withdrawals occurred in. But, as 
explained earlier, in order for me to agree Ms G is not liable for the transactions, I have to be 
satisfied  its more likely than not that Ms G herself did not make or otherwise authorise the 
transactions. While I may be satisfied its more likely than not that Ms G herself did not make 
some of the transactions herself, I still have to be satisfied she didnt otherwise authorise 
them. 
I must be satisfied Ms G did not give permission for a third party to use her card, for 
example, to run errands for her. If she did, this would mean she gave her apparent authority 
for the card to be used, and would be liable for the transactions even if she then didnt intend 
for the third party to continue to make additional withdrawals without her knowledge.
Ultimately, this largely comes down to the testimony of the account holder. But unfortunately, 
Ms G is no longer with us and so its not possible for me to know what her intentions were or 
if she was taken advantage of by FM. I note this is the same conclusion the police 
investigation came to. They could not rule out the possibility that Ms G consented to the 
withdrawals. There was also no information to show she had lost capacity to do so.  
This is therefore the crux of the complaint. Even considering other factors, such as the 
pattern of spending on the account, I cant say it makes it more likely Ms G did not authorise 
a third party to use her card and PIN. While the frequency and value of cash withdrawals did 
slowly increase, it doesnt follow the pattern you would expect for fraudulent transactions. 
Normally, large amounts of the balance would be depleted as quickly as possible, with large 
transactions being made. But here only £4,500 out of a possible £85,000 was spent over the 
course of over five months. 
So it doesnt sway me to think this therefore means Ms G could not have given her authority 
for another party to act on her behalf, even if they then went on to make further withdrawals 
that she did not know about. 
I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing to Mr B and the family of Ms G, but I hope Ive 
explained clearly why I have not upheld this complaint.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr P and the estate of Ms Gs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman