DRN-2684768
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (GIC) hasnt settled his claim 
under his contents insurance for the full value of his stolen jewellery.
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his contents insurance following a burglary at his home. GIC 
accepted and settled his claim for the stolen electrical items, including games consoles, but 
it offered him only a fraction of what Mr C said his jewellery was worth. GIC offered £150, so 
it asked Mr C to send evidence of its value at about £7000 more, which is what hed claimed.
Mr C provided lots of evidence to demonstrate ownership and value, including photos and 
bank statements, but GIC didnt think it was enough to prove his loss. Mr C complained to 
GIC about the settlement offer and the way it questioned him when handling his claim. GIC 
didnt increase the settlement, but it offered to consider any further evidence of loss he could 
provide in support of his claim which met its requirements.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He thought that GIC had settled the claim 
fairly, in line with the policy terms, and that its questions about the jewellery were necessary 
for assessing the claim. While he sympathised with Mr Cs position, our investigator couldnt 
reasonably say that GIC had done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt agree and pointed out the policy limits were more than GIC offered.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I sympathise with Mr Cs position, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
Firstly, I understand that Mr C is unhappy with the number and type of questions GIC asked 
when handling his claim. He feels that the questions were irrelevant and too personal. Ive 
looked at the type of questions GIC recorded but I havent seen anything to suggest they 
were inappropriate. I can understand that Mr C mightve thought they were personal, for 
example some of the questions were about the property exchanges he made as part of a 
hobby. But I dont think thats an irrelevant question when the jewellery which was stolen 
was part of one of those exchanges. 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for GIC to ask the questions it did to build a picture of Mr 
Cs hobby and ownership of the jewellery. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The next issue is the valuation of the stolen jewellery. Mr C says the jewellery was worth 
around £7000 but GIC offered £150 in settlement of this part of the claim. 
Ive looked at the policy, details of which were available to Mr C online when he bought the 
insurance through his banking app. Mr C bought the policy in early September and included 
two items of jewellery under the specified valuables section: a gold bracelet at £3200, and a 
gold necklace at £3600. Later that month he claimed for both items, along with other stolen 
property. GIC accepted his claim but it wanted proof of ownership of the jewellery and 
evidence of its value. 
Mr C sent photos showing the jewellery on weighing scales, being worn and displaying the 
hallmarks. He provided screen shots of a scrap gold price calculator showing that the two 
pieces were worth around £500 and £1500, and he supplied a receipt listing the two items 
along with a watch. The receipt was from a car sales business, handwritten, addressed to 
someone else, and gave the total price for the three items as £8500. GIC said the 
information wasnt enough to prove ownership of the jewellery at the value Mr C had 
claimed. The separate pieces of information didnt form a consistent picture, and GIC 
couldnt be sure that the jewellery wasnt gold-plated. GIC offered Mr C £150 for both pieces.
My role here is to decide whether GIC handled Mr Cs claim fairly and whether its offer to 
settle was in line with the policy. The reason GIC gave is that Mr C didnt meet the policy 
conditions for proof of value and ownership. The relevant clause says:
Proof of value and ownership 
It is your responsibility to prove any loss therefore we recommend that you keep receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards to help with your claim.
To help us settle your claim 
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and therefore we may ask you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets, guarantee cards and any other relevant 
information, documents and assistance we may require to help with your claim. If you wish to 
specify an item valued at more than the single item limit shown on your schedule, we will 
either request proof of value,
prior to providing cover for the item; or
at the time of a loss.
While Mr C provided a receipt, it was not proof of his purchase. The receipt showed that 
someone else bought the jewellery (and watch) from a car sales business. Although Mr C 
provided a bank statement showing a transaction of £8500 paid to the car sales company, 
the statement belongs to the person who bought the jewellery. Theres nothing to show that 
Mr C bought the jewellery so I can understand why GIC didnt accept his evidence as proof 
of ownership.
Photos Mr C provided show the jewellery on weighing scales, and being worn. But as the 
persons face isnt visible, again, I can understand why GIC didnt accept the photos as proof 
of ownership.
That said, Ive seen an email confirmation from the person who bought the jewellery that 
they exchanged it with Mr C for cars. I have no reason to doubt this, and I think it indicates 
ownership. However, it doesnt evidence ownership of jewellery to the value Mr C claimed.  
Moving on to the question of value, Mr C provided close-up photos of 9ct gold hallmarks and 
screen shots showing how much the gold was worth by weight. Its not possible to tell what 
the jewellery is from the close-up photo of the hallmark and the screen shots show that the 
value is significantly less than Mr Cs claim. As the policy says proof of value is required, Ive 
thought about whether the evidence of scrap value at £2000 is enough to warrant asking 
GIC to increase its offer. However, as GIC points out, there is no clear evidence that the 
jewellery was just gold, rather than gold plated. Ultimately, its Mr Cs responsibility to provide evidence that he owned jewellery to the value of around £7000 before I can 
reasonably expect GIC to increase its offer. He hasnt provided that evidence, so Im 
satisfied that it was fair for GIC to decline Mr Cs claim for the amount hed insured the 
jewellery for.
I see that Mr C wouldve settled for £2000 because he says GIC wouldve paid that without 
evidence. I havent seen anything in the documents to suggest it made that offer. Its 
possible theres been some confusion because GIC covers a single unspecified valuable at 
£2500. However, Mr C had specified the two pieces of jewellery, so the responsibility is his 
to prove ownership and value in line with the terms of the policy.
While Mr C provided a lot of information to try to demonstrate ownership and value, the 
evidence doesnt prove that he owned jewellery to the value he claimed. Hes told me that 
more evidence was inside the safe, which was also stolen. I understand one piece of 
evidence was an independent jewellers assessment. It may be that Mr C is able to get a 
copy from the jeweller, in which case hed be in a position to provide more evidence for GIC 
to consider. However, unless further evidence is available to demonstrate ownership and 
value, Im satisfied that it was fair for GIC to offer what its own valuation company could 
reasonably say the jewellery might be worth. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The final issue is that Mr C says GIC didnt handle his claim well because it failed to keep 
him updated on progress. Ive looked at the contact notes GIC provided which show that Mr 
C contacted it on many occasions to chase progress. On the face of it, this might seem like 
GIC failed to manage his claim properly. However, Mr C called often and nearly every day 
over some periods, despite GIC explaining that it would contact him once it received 
valuations or assessments of his evidence. So, it seems to me that Mr C wasnt giving GIC 
the chance to review his claim and get back to him before he contacted it again. I dont think 
GIC did anything wrong here, so I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
In summary, GIC accepted Mr Cs claim but its settlement offer was based only on what it 
could fairly say the stolen jewellery was worth. Its Mr Cs responsibility to show proof of 
ownership and value and I understand that GIC will still look at any further information he 
can provide if it meets the evidence criteria it has specified. So, I dont uphold the complaint 
and I wont be asking GIC to do any more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman