DRN-4002472
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) will not refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a vehicle purchase scam.
In bringing his complaint to this service, Mr D is being represented. For ease, Ill refer to 
Mr D throughout this decision, even where the submissions may have been made on his 
behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I have summarised the 
key events. Briefly, Mr D found a vehicle advertised for sale for £3,950 by a private seller on 
a wellknown marketplace. Unfortunately, Mr D wasnt dealing with a genuine seller and was 
instead interacting with a fraudster. Mr D was duped into making a payment of £2,000 on 
27 July 2022, to the bank account details hed been given. The payment was a deposit to 
hold the vehicle and the remainder was due to be paid on collection. Mr D says he was told 
that if on collection he decided he no longer wanted the vehicle that hed be refunded the 
£2,000 hed paid. 
Mr D says the price of the vehicle was relatively cheap, but it was explained to him by the 
seller that this was the case because the vehicle had a very high mileage. On this basis 
Mr D says he didnt consider the price too good to be true and that he believed the price of 
the vehicle to be a fair one. 
Mr D says he completed an HPI check which matched the vehicle advertised and that he 
checked a motor insurance database and saw the vehicle was taxed. Mr D said he had 
several calls with the seller, whose details was listed on the advert, and that the length of 
these calls varied. But in summary, he said these calls included him and the owner 
discussing the details about the vehicle. He added that because the vehicle was two hours 
each way from his location, he didnt view the vehicle prior to going to collect it. 
Mr D arranged to collect the vehicle from the address provided to him a few days later. On 
arriving at the address, Mr D says he discovered the seller didnt reside at the address and 
neighbours informed Mr D that theyd never seen the vehicle parked on the driveway before. 
Mr D says he received no response from the seller when he attempted to make contact and 
it was at this point, he realised hed fallen victim to a scam.  
Mr D contacted Lloyds on 31 July 2022 to raise the scam claim. Lloyds considered its 
obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code, of which it is a signatory. Lloyds sent its final response on 11 November 2022, it didnt 
consider it should be held liable for Mr Ds loss, it said this because it didnt think he carried 
out sufficient checks to confirm the seller was genuine before making the payment. It also 
didnt think the payment Mr D made was unusual compared to previous account activity and, 
so there was no reason to intervene before allowing the payment to be made. Lloyds 
attempted to recover the money Mr D had sent but said sadly no funds remained. 
Mr D was unhappy with Lloyds response and so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, this was because she didnt think Mr D had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment was for a genuine reason or that the person, he transacted with was legitimate. 
She thought there were flags that ought to have caused Mr D concern  in particular, she 
thought the price of the vehicle was too good to be true, she also didnt think Mr D had 
satisfied himself that the seller had ownership of the vehicle and she also thought the 
amount Mr D was asked to pay as a deposit (more than half the cost of the vehicle) ought to 
have been a flag to him. Our Investigator also didnt think the payment Mr D had made ought 
to have stood out to the bank based on previous account activity. And so, she didnt find 
Lloyds had missed an opportunity to intervene. 
Mr D disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary, Mr D maintained the scam was 
well-planned and convincing. He said this because hed found the advert on a legitimate 
marketplace where a number of vehicles are sold. He says he found the advert convincing  
it contained numerous pictures and was detailed. He added that whilst he did not view the 
vehicle in person prior to making the payment, it was not unusual to him and said hed 
previously bought another vehicle online without viewing it. Mr D says there was no reason 
for him to be suspicious based on the fact he didnt view the vehicle.  
Our Investigator considered Mr Ds further comments, but her position remained unchanged. 
She explained that whilst Mr D might have found the advert convincing along with the HPI 
check he carried out, this didnt confirm if the seller was genuinely in possession and owned 
the rights to the vehicle that was advertised. When considering the CRM Code our 
Investigator reiterated that she didnt think Mr D had satisfied himself that the payment he 
was making was to a legitimate person. She maintained the price of the vehicle ought to 
have caused Mr D concerns and she didnt agree that the price of the vehicle was in line with 
the market value for the make, model and condition of the vehicle Mr D was looking to buy. 
She recognised the payment purpose Mr D selected meant the relevant warning wouldnt 
have been displayed but as she didnt think the payment he made was so remarkable in the 
circumstances, she didnt think Lloyds needed to provide an effective warning or question 
the payment before processing it. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. Theres no dispute that Mr D authorised the payment that is the subject of this complaint, even though he did so as a 
result of being deceived by fraudsters.
Broadly speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, he would normally be liable for the payment. But that isnt the end of the 
story. Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though the payment has been properly authorised. Of 
particular relevance is the CRM Code which, as mentioned above, Lloyds has signed up to. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr D, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that*:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Having regard for the requirements of the CRM Code, Ive taken into account all of the 
circumstances of this case, which includes Mr Ds knowledge and wider circumstances as 
well as the complexity of the scam. I think the concerns Lloyds has raised about whether 
Mr D had a reasonable basis for belief about the points listed above are sufficient to support 
its position that he failed to meet his requirements under the CRM Code in making the 
payment he did. Ill now explain why.
Mr D has explained that he made a purchase from the online marketplace before - around 
March 2022. He said he didnt view that vehicle prior to purchasing it and followed all the 
same processes. I can understand to some extent how that would have reasonably given 
Mr D some assurance. But the vehicle Mr D was trying to purchase was advertised for 
£3,950 and having reviewed recognised industry trade guides, that provide average vehicle 
sale prices based on make, model, vehicle age and mileage, this price is less than what 
comparable vehicles were being sold for at the time of the scam. The information I have 
seen suggests the market value for this vehicle in this condition and with the higher mileage 
Mr D has referred to was between £5,500 and £8,500. On this basis, I think the price the 
vehicle was advertised for was too good to be true and ought to have raised concerns.
I am mindful Mr D has referred to the telephone conversations he had with the seller  some 
of which he said were lengthy calls where they discussed the details of the vehicle and their 
family lives. As part of our investigations, our Investigator asked about these calls and for 
information about them. Unfortunately, due to the time thats passed Mr D has been unable 
to provide much information relating to these  other than what he has summarised they 
discussed on the call and that the seller appeared genuine to him over the phone. In addition 
to the phone contact, Mr D and the seller exchanged a few messages. Mr D has provided a 
copy of these. The messages show the seller on 27 July 2022 asked Mr D to give him a call 
and provided the address and account details for the deposit to be sent to. The seller also 
confirms within the messages that the deposit was received. The next contact from Mr D is 
shown on 31 July 2022 when he informed the seller of his estimated time of arrival. In this 
case, based on what Ive been told, Mr Ds contact with the seller predominately appears to 
have been conducted over the phone. As I wasnt a party to these conversations, I dont 
know exactly what was said and so in reaching my findings, I have to take into account what 
I think is more than likely than not to have happened in light of all the wider circumstances 
and evidence.  I recognised Mr D said he carried out some checks on the vehicle and that from what he saw 
this didnt cause him any concerns. He said it showed the vehicle was taxed and when 
making the payment the details matched those for the seller. While Mr D carried out some 
checks on the vehicle, he appears to have relied largely on what the seller told him  a 
person hed never met or made attempts to verify he was who he said he was, i.e., the 
owner of the vehicle. 
I think, given that Mr G was making a payment towards a vehicle hed not yet seen that this 
reasonably ought to have led him to act with more caution and prompted him to carry out 
more checks. 
Our Investigator commented that she didnt think it unreasonable to have expected Mr D to 
travel to the seller in order to check the vehicle prior to making the payment. Mr D says the 
vehicle was around two hours away, each way and that hed previously bought a vehicle 
from the marketplace without seeing it  so this didnt cause him concern. Ive carefully 
thought about what Mr D has told us and even if I accept Mr D was unable to travel to see 
the vehicle, Im persuaded that he ought to have taken other steps to check the vehicle he 
was looking to buy and that the seller was in possession/had ownership of it. Im mindful 
Mr D couldve attempted to do so by alternative means, such as ask to see the vehicle over 
a video call, requested a video of the it or even asked the seller to provide documentation of 
ownership that he would then have been able to check. Steps I am persuaded Mr D 
wouldve been able to do given, hes referred to having several calls with the seller.   
As Ive said above, I acknowledge Mr D previously purchased a vehicle without viewing it 
beforehand and, I also think its fair to accept that buying a vehicle online has become far 
more common in recent years. But I think its also fair to say that in these circumstances  
particularly where the seller isnt known to the customer  you would expect a higher degree 
of caution on the customers behalf, to ensure that all other elements of the sale appear 
legitimate and that any red flags are questioned.
Our Investigator also considered the amount of the deposit (which was more than 50% of 
the advertised price for the vehicle) ought to have prompted Mr D to act more cautiously. 
While I dont think I need to make a specific finding as to what is a fair and reasonable 
deposit to pay in such circumstances, I do think the amount Mr D was asked to pay to 
secure the vehicle was significant when compared with the agreed sale price. This 
combined with the fact Mr D was told hed receive a full refund of the deposit should he no 
longer wish to proceed on collection, I think ought to have led Mr D to question what he was 
being asked to do. 
In short, whilst there is limited information provided in order for me to fully understand and 
see the communication Mr D had with the seller, on balance, I dont think the steps he took 
gave him a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a legitimate person or that the 
payment was for genuine goods or services, and so the exception to reimbursement under 
the CRM Code has been fairly applied by Lloyds.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr D from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr D ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect himself. I think Mr D should have done more than he did to question the deal 
and to satisfy himself that it was legitimate before making the payment.
Should Lloyds have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr D? 
Ive thought about whether Lloyds did enough to protect Mr D from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.
I am also mindful that when Mr D made this payment, Lloyds should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Mr D was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Lloyds wouldve 
had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. Having reviewed Mr Ds account 
statements for the period leading up to the scam, Im not persuaded that the payment would 
have stood out as out of character or unusual. Whilst I recognise the payment was a lot of 
money to Mr D, Im not persuaded the amount of the payment was so remarkable given the 
previous account activity that it ought to have caused Lloyds concern. 
Im mindful Lloyds has raised Mr D didnt select the appropriate payment purpose and so, he 
wouldnt have seen the relevant warning when making the payment. But, given what Ive set 
out above  that I dont think the payment was remarkable enough for Lloyds to have been 
concerned he might have been at risk of financial fraud at the time he made it, it follows that 
I dont think the CRM Code required that Lloyds display an effective warning as part of the 
payment process. And Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for intervening to 
question the payment with Mr D before allowing it to be processed.
All things considered, while Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr D, and I can 
understand entirely why he feels so strongly that this money should be returned to him, I 
cant fairly or reasonably ask Lloyds to refund him the money he has lost. Overall, Im 
satisfied the bank has been able to establish it can choose not to refund Mr D under the 
CRM Code. I can also see Lloyds attempted to recover Mr Ds funds once it was made 
aware of the scam. Unfortunately, no funds remained to be recovered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman