DRN-4203487
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain AXA Insurance UK Plc settled their insurance claim unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs H have been represented for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being their own. Similarly Ive generally referred to AXAs agents 
and contractors actions as being its own. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs H made a claim against their AXA commercial and residential 
landlords insurance policy. The lower ground floor area of their property had been flooded. 
AXA initially declined the claim, but later accepted it. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with how the claim was progressing. AXA issued a complaint 
response in November 2021. It offered £250 compensation for delay and the incorrect claim 
decline. Mr and Mrs H didnt refer that complaint to this service. So I havent considered the 
relevant issues and AXAs response. 
In March 2022 Mr and Ms H made a further complaint. They were unhappy about various 
aspects of AXAs claim handling. Its response, in May 2022, included the following. It said 
the policy terms limit its liability, when policyholders use their own contractors, to its own 
contractors costs. It didnt accept a wait of 10-12 weeks for its contractor to begin 
reinstatement works meant it should settle that part of the claim based on Mr and Mrs Hs 
contractors estimate. AXA didnt accept it was responsible for any avoidable delays or that it 
had breached FCA principles. 
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied so referred their complaint to this service. Their key concerns 
are AXAs cash settlement of the claim being too low and that they have unfairly incurred 
costs to rent alternative office space. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint. He felt AXAs decision to cash settle, based on 
what it would have cost it to use its own contractor, was fair. He said he wouldnt expect AXA 
to pay VAT on a settlement unless the policyholder had incurred that charge. The 
Investigator said the cost of the office space wasnt payable under the terms of the policy. 
And he didnt agree those costs were only incurred due to AXA delaying the claim. So he 
didnt recommend it pay Mr and Mrs H anything more or that it do anything differently. Mr 
and Mrs H didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs H and AXA have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything they have said or sent in. Mr and Mrs H have said AXAs breached various FCA 
principles. Whilst I havent referred directly to those principles, Ive taken them into account 
when considering their complaint. 
Ive first considered the settlement offered by AXA for the reinstatement works. When a 
policyholder chooses to use their own supplier to repair damage its usually reasonable for 
the insurer to settle based on what the work would have cost it  as AXA has done in this 
case. But its only reasonable when the insurer has offered to actually undertake the repairs 
using its own contractors  something that AXA did do. 
Mr and Mrs H say the cash settlement isnt enough to reinstate the property to the condition 
it was before the loss. Ive seen theirs and AXAs contractors costed schedule of works.  Im 
satisfied AXA could have had the work completed for the amount its offered. So it seems, in 
principle, to be a fair settlement as Mr and Mrs H wished to use their own contractor. Thats 
something they were very firm about from early in the claim. 
But Mr and Mrs H feel its unreasonable to base the settlement on AXAs contractors costs 
as, when they later requested for it to complete the work they were told that wouldnt happen 
for 10-12 weeks. It seems the change of position by Mr and Mrs H and them using their own 
contractor for earlier stages of the work, was responsible for at least some of that estimated 
timescale.  
In any event that still leaves a lead in time of a few months at least. In the circumstances I 
dont consider that an excessive or unreasonable delay to the start of reinstatement works. 
The affected area was a basement. As far as Im aware it didnt include primary living areas 
like a bathroom, bedroom or kitchen. Ive considered a reported medical condition. However, 
the area was sealed off to address such health concerns.   
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs H had to use the own contractors through necessity or 
due an unreasonable situation created by AXA. It seems to have been their preferred option 
from the outset. So Im not going to require AXA to settle the reinstatement works based on 
Mr and Mrs Hs contractors costs  or to pay them anything extra for that work. 
According to Mr and Mrs H AXA pressured them in to accepting an initial settlement of 
around £5,000 for reinstatement works. I havent seen anything to persuade me pressure 
was applied, or any unreasonable steps were taken to get them to agree to that proposal.
 
AXA refused to transfer funds for estimated VAT to Mr and Mrs Hs representative unless 
invoices from contractors, including that charge, were provided. That seems reasonable. I 
wouldnt usually expect an insurer to cover VAT for reinstatement works unless the 
policyholder had actually incurred those costs.   
Mr and Mrs H would like AXA to cover rent paid for office facilities required for work. Their 
usual space on the ground floor couldnt be used. The policy terms do provide for costs of 
alternative accommodation  but only when the residential portion of the property cannot be 
lived in. They were able to live in the property. So I cant say AXA not paying office space 
costs, under the terms of the policy, is unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H feel AXA was responsible for significant unnecessary delay  with the impact 
including additional office space costs. Causes of delay they have referred to include AXA 
proposing inadequate settlement figures and the lead in time for its contractor to begin 
reinstatement works. 
There was some discussion about the reinstatement cash settlement. Its not unusual, as a 
claim develops or the extent of damage becomes clearer, for that to happen. AXA engaged 
in discussions reasonably as far as Ive seen. In any event as far as Ive seen AXAs final proposal, that I havent found fault with, was made around about the time drying of the 
property had completed. So that cant be responsible for any significant delay in works 
beginning.  
Ive said, in the circumstances, I dont feel AXAs contractor lead in time to be unfair or 
unreasonable. And it was only ever theoretical as Mr and Mrs H didnt accept that option. 
They chose to continue with their own contractor  so if there was any delay beyond that it 
cant fairly be attributed to AXA. Overall I havent seen that it caused any significant 
unnecessary delay. So Im not going to require AXA to pay compensation or reimburse any 
office costs.
Finally Mr and Mrs H would like AXA to cover the cost of putting right damage to floorboard 
stain when tape sealing the basement area was removed. They feel the tape, and so the 
damage, was a necessary part of the claim. AXA feels the cause is insufficient care by Mr 
and Mrs Hs contractor. That contractors opinion is the stain only lifted because of poor 
preparation when it was originally applied. It seems to me to be a snagging issue to be 
resolved between Mr and Mrs H and their own contractor  rather than something for this 
service to get involved with.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman