DRN-3062873
The complaint
 Mr N is unhappy with the type of agreement that Leasys UK Ltd provided to him.
What happened
 In early 2018, Mr N was supplied with a new car through a contract hire agreement with 
Leasys. Mr N paid a £500 deposit and an initial rental of £1,205.35. The agreement was 36 
months, with monthly rentals of £401.78. Mr N also purchased Guaranteed Asset Protection 
(GAP) insurance.
Mr N says he believed the agreement was a personal contract purchase or hire purchase 
agreement. And he terminated the agreement in October 2020, when he understood hed 
never own the car.
The car broke down in February 2020, and Mr N was told the repairs would cost £600. He 
reviewed the paperwork he was supplied with at the point of sale, as he believed there was a 
three-year warranty or other similar cover provided with the car. On review, Mr N thought the 
documents contradicted each other, and he asked Leasys for copies of all of the documents 
relating to the finance.
But Leasys only provided a copy of the Key Financial Information (KFI) document, which 
said Mr N had electronically signed this on 7 June 2018  almost a month after Mr N says he 
was supplied with the car. And Mr N said this document had a different version control to the 
one he was supplied with at the outset of the agreement. He queried this with Leasys, and 
he says they didnt provide him with an answer. He also says he asked Leasys for a copy of 
the terms and conditions, but they were unable to provide this.
Unhappy with Leasys response, and that he didnt have any option to purchase the car at 
the end of the agreement, Mr N brought his complaint to us for investigation. 
The initial investigator said Mr N had been supplied with the car under a 36-month lease 
agreement. The sale had taken place on a face-to-face basis, so it wasnt possible to know 
exactly what hed been told at the time. 
The investigator said Leasys system notes showed there was a delay in processing the 
paperwork by the supplying dealership, and Leasys didnt receive this until 7 June 2018. And 
he was satisfied this explained the discrepancy in the dates in the KFI documents. He also 
said that, although the version control details differed between the physical and electronic 
copies, the information on both documents was exactly the same. So he didnt think that Mr 
N had been disadvantaged in any way by this.
The investigator also said that the information on all of the documents were clear that Mr N 
had entered into a fixed hire lease agreement. And he said Mr N had physically signed all of 
the documentation on 28 April 2018. So he wouldve had the opportunity to read all of the 
documentation, and ask any questions, before he collected the car. Because of this, he 
didnt think that Mr N had been misled in relation to the nature of the agreement.
With regard to the repair costs, the investigator said these werent covered by the agreement 
or the GAP insurance. And the GAP insurance wouldve covered Mr N for the difference 
between the market value of the car and anything he still owed on the lease, if the car had 
been stolen or written off during the term of the policy. So he didnt think Leasys needed to 
do anything more.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator didnt take account of an 
email hed received from the dealership, which clearly admits that there had been confusion 
over the product that was sold to me. Hes also said the agreement he signed says we 
agree to purchase the vehicle subject to the terms and conditions; and that the goods do 
not become yours under the agreement was only stated on the electronic copy of the 
agreement, not the copy he physically signed. So he thinks the investigator was being unfair 
in saying he was aware of what type of agreement he was signing. 
Mr N also said the investigator failed to address his complaint about how Leasys handled his 
complaint, and he still considered that hed been mis-sold the GAP insurance as it wasnt 
necessary to enforce this on a brand new car.
Mr Ns comments, and all of the evidence in this matter, were reviewed by a second 
investigator. The second investigator said Mr N was provided with conflicting information, 
and the email he received from the dealership added to this. He thought that Leasys had a 
responsibility to ensure that all of the information relating to the agreement was clear and 
freely available, and this wasnt always the case. 
The second investigator thought Mr N had been provided with contradictory documents 
when he entered into the agreement with Leasys, so he didnt think their goodwill offer of 
£500 and the value of one months rental was sufficient in the circumstances. He thought 
this should be increased to £1,291.07  the amount of the October 2020 termination fee. 
But, because Mr N had had use of the car while it was in his possession, he didnt think 
Leasys should refund any rental payments.
Leasys agreed with the second investigator, but only if the £1,291.07 could be used to 
reduce Mr Ns arrears. Mr N didnt agree with the second investigator, as he didnt think the 
£1,291.07 fairly compensated him for his dealings with Leasys, and for not having any equity 
from this agreement he could put towards a new car. He asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr N was supplied with a car under a 
contract hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. Ive seen a copy of the KFI document, which shows Mr N electronically signed this on 7 June 
2018. This document clearly refers to an initial rental of £1,205.35, followed by 35 monthly 
rentals of £401.78. It also refers to the period of hire and states there is a fixed hire period 
of 36 months in total. The information about excess mileage refers to the hire period and, 
underneath the electronic signature, the document says, under this agreement the goods do 
not become your property and you must not sell them. Whats more, theres nothing in this 
document that refers to Mr N purchasing the car.
Theres a conflicting date, with Mr N saying he took possession of the car on 19 May 2018, 
and the KFI document being electronically signed on 7 June 2018. Mr N has provided 
evidence that he started to insure the car on 19 May 2018; but Ive also seen a copy of the 
Vehicle Handover Form, physically signed by Mr N, which says he took possession of the 
car at 10:33am on 7 June 2018. Leasys system notes also show they paid out the 
agreement to the dealership on 7 June 2018. And the Direct Debit form is electronically 
signed and dated 7 June 2018.
Its possible for a new car to be insured before its taken possession of, but its less likely that 
Mr N would take possession of the car before the agreement was paid out to the dealership, 
or before a Direct Debit had been signed so payments could be set up. So, while its not 
possible from the evidence to say exactly when Mr N took possession of the car, and the 
actual date of taking possession has no bearing on the complaint at hand; I dont agree with 
Mr N that the KFI having an electronic signature dated 7 June 2018 makes it a fraudulent 
document. So I dont think the contents of this document can be ignored.
Mr N has provided the second page of a different copy of the KFI document  one that 
should have a physical signature. But its unsigned. This is in a different format to the 
electronic version. But both documents contain the exact same information about charges, 
cancellation rights and missing payments. The unsigned physical document also contains a 
customer information and data protection notice. Crucially, the signature box on the physical 
copy also says, this is a Hire Agreement and under this agreement the goods do not 
become your property and you must not sell them.
Leasys say that, when the documents are electronically signed, the customer receives an 
email. So they believe Mr N wouldve been aware of the type of the agreement hes entered 
into at the point of sale. But theyve not been able to provide a copy of this email, nor have 
they provided any further documentation i.e. the original signed agreement or the full terms 
and conditions; to either Mr N or ourselves.
Ive seen a copy of the email from the dealership dated 25 March 2019  almost a year after 
Mr N took possession of the car. This email says, thank you for buying your new car and 
we hope you are happy with your purchase. Im in agreement with Mr N that the use of 
buying and purchase doesnt indicate Mr N was leasing the car.
This email goes on to say we have noted that the Finance Type (shows Personal Contract 
Purchase, was Personal Contract Hire), Finance Term, Initial Payment, Monthly Payment & 
Excess Mileage Charge initially stated on your demand and needs is inaccurate please refer 
to the product, term, payments & charge stated on the finance agreement you signed. 
However, while referring to the agreement number with Leasys, the email also refers to the 
finance agreement being with a different provider  not Leasys.
As neither Mr N nor Leasys asked the dealership to do this, Im satisfied that the dealership 
felt they needed to send this email because there was some confusion and contradiction 
with regards to the information Mr N was provided with at the outset of the agreement. And 
this email, by referring to the wrong type of agreement with the wrong finance provider, only 
served to add further confusion.Any confusion couldve been avoided by Leasys providing Mr N with the full information and 
documentation at the outset, and again when he asked them for copies. But they didnt do 
this. So, while Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr N entered into a lease agreement 
with Leasys, their failure to provide documentation when requested was poor service. And is 
the reason why Im upholding this complaint.
Ive seen the supply invoice from the dealership, dated 7 June 2018, breaking down the cost 
of the car. While this included things like 12-months road tax, it didnt include the GAP 
insurance. The investigators have both commented on the GAP insurance, and how it 
wouldve been beneficial to Mr N under certain circumstances. But, as this didnt form part of 
the agreement, I cant consider it as part of the complaint about Leasys. So it wont form part 
of my overall decision.
Mr N has also raised the issue of how Leasys dealt with his complaint. Im only able to 
consider complaints about regulated activities, and the Financial Conduct Authority dont 
consider complaint handling to be a regulated activity. So, while I appreciate Mr N is 
unhappy about how Leasys dealt with his complaint, this is not something Im able to 
consider. So it also wont form part of my decision.
Putting things right
 Leasys initially offered a total of £901.78 as a gesture of goodwill  a £500 reduction in the 
early termination figure and £401.78 (the equivalent of one months rental payment) towards 
the repairs. The second investigator recommended this was increased to a total of £1,291.07 
 the amount of the early termination figure  due to the confusion with the documentation 
Mr N was provided with, and Leasys inability to provide copies of the documentation when 
Mr N asked for them. And, because Mr N terminated the agreement early as he would never 
own the car, the second investigator didnt think Mr N wouldve necessarily entered into the 
agreement had he fully understood this fact at the outset.
Given all the circumstances Im in agreement this is a fair and reasonable recommendation. 
So Ill adopt it as part of my overall decision. Leasys believe this compensation should be 
used to repay Mr Ns arrears, and not be paid to him directly. But the arrears are as a result 
of Mr Ns financial circumstances during 2020 (and the Covid-19 pandemic), and not as a 
result of what Leasys did or didnt do in relation to the documentation. So I dont think this 
compensation should be offset against the arrears  unless Mr N chooses to do so.
As a result of the above, Leasys should increase the compensation theyve already paid Mr 
N to a total of £1,201.07.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ns complaint. Leasys UK Ltd should follow my 
directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman