The complaint
Mr G has complained about Zenith Insurance Plc. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with 
a claim under his motor warranty. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his Zenith motor warranty after his car broke down on the 
motorway. His car was towed to a garage but when Zenith looked into his claim it turned it 
down. This was because it said that the problem was caused by wear and tear which wasnt 
covered under the policy as it wasnt a sudden mechanical breakdown.
As Mr G wasnt happy about this he complained to Zenith and then this service. He said that 
there wasnt any warning before his car suffered a loss of power on the motorway and that it 
was fully serviced and maintained in line with the manufacturers guidance. But Zenith 
maintained its position. It said the engineer that inspected his car made it clear that the 
clutch and drive wheel needed replacing as the drive plates had worn over time. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and upheld his complaint. He accepted that the 
engineer talked about wear and tear. But he highlighted that the engineer made it clear that 
there was a fault or manufacturing fault that caused the problem. So, he thought the 
complaint should be upheld as the problem wasnt caused solely by wear and tear, but by a 
manufacturing problem or a fault that caused the part to fail early.
As Zenith didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Zenith has argued that the part has failed through wear and tear and its engineer supports 
its position to a degree. But the engineer goes further and agrees that there is a fault that 
has led to premature failure of the parts. In other words, Zeniths own engineer feels that the 
parts failure was caused by a fault or manufacturing fault which has caused the part to fail 
early, although there is wear and tear. 
This piece of evidence is persuasive, especially when considered alongside the fact that 
Mr Gs car was well maintained and serviced. Indeed, Mr G says it had a full and extensive 
service in line with the manufacturers guidelines and the service history supports this.   
Ive considered all the information provided but Zenith hasnt provided any evidence that 
goes against the engineers opinion that the part failed prematurely. 
DRN-1382866I know it feels that the part hasnt failed early and says that is why it has an exclusion around 
the mileage and age of a car. It says that it is impossible to say why a part may fail early for 
a number of reasons. And while I accept this point generally it has appointed an engineer 
who has agreed with the repairing mechanic that there was a fault and that the parts failed 
prematurely. This is why it appoints an independent engineer, to consider these issues, and I 
dont think it would be fair to go against their opinion without evidence to the contrary. 
The warranty says that it will contribute to the costs of repairs due to unexpected mechanical 
or electrical failure. The engineer acknowledges that the problem would have developed 
over time. But Im satisfied that the breakdown was covered by the policy as it followed the 
sudden and unforeseen failure of a component arising from any permanent mechanical or 
electrical defect, (for a reason other than wear and tear, normal deterioration or negligence) 
causing a sudden stoppage of its function, necessitating immediate repair or replacement of 
the component. 
I say this as the engineer has outlined the failure was premature. And if the part has failed 
early (before its expected lifespan) I think its failure was sudden, unforeseen and 
unexpected which the policy covers. Furthermore, the failure stems from a defect as 
opposed to just wear and tear which is also covered.
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case, to 
turn down the claim. Many parts on a car will gradually deteriorate over time and at some 
point, fail because theyre worn out. However, I think theres an important difference between 
a part failing when its worn out just through wear and tear (which is excluded under the 
policy) as opposed to a part that has failed prematurely because of a fault or manufacturing 
problem.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith 
Insurance Plc to meet the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions. It should also 
pay 8% simple interest on any cash settlement from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman