DRN-3517871
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt 
with a claim they made for a water leak on their Home Emergency Cover.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat them
again here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 12 May 2022. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint and direct that RSA should pay to replace the cracked bath panel, in 
addition to the £100 compensation it had offered. I reached this conclusion for the following 
reasons:
Mr and Mrs S have said the leak came from dropped sealant which they 
subsequently fixed themselves. Theyve said they mentioned this to the engineers, 
but no action was taken.
Not all issues will be immediately obvious, but I also wouldnt expect repairs to be 
undertaken unnecessarily. The expert evidence available suggests that repairs were 
needed to the pipes, so while the dropped sealant may have also been causing water 
to leak while the shower was being run. Im persuaded this wasnt the only cause of 
the water leak.
The pipe fitting broke whilst the leak was being investigated on the second occasion. 
It seems reasonable that the water supply would remain on so the cause of the leak 
could be located. It may simply have been an unfortunate occurrence that the fitting 
broke whilst the engineer was handling the pipework. Ive seen nothing which 
suggests the engineer acted negligently or that they forcibly broke the fitting, so Im 
not persuaded RSA need to cover the cost of repairing the resultant water damage.
While I accept Mr and Mrs Ss point that had the engineer asked them if they knew 
where the stop cock was in advance of undertaking the trace, the resultant damage 
may have been less severe or avoided. I cant say this is something the engineer 
should have done or that it should have been foreseeable to them that the pipe fitting 
might break  as this is outside of the remit of my role. Similarly, Mr and Mrs S have 
commented they werent provided with any advice about the water coming through 
the light fitting. Again, this wouldnt be something for me to comment on. RSA has 
said that procedures are being reviewed in light of what happened, and this seems 
reasonable to me.
Damage caused by escaping water isnt usually covered by a Home Emergency 
policy. And while I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs S feel they shouldnt have to 
make a separate claim for the water damage under their Home Insurance policy and 
pay an excess. Based on the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded this is 
something RSA need to cover under the Home Emergency cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss bathroom was relatively new, and they have explained the bath panel 
was fixed to the wall with sealant. They had not had any reason to remove the panel 
before the leak happened.
Its not disputed an engineer was called to the property twice and as such, the panel 
would have been removed and refixed on the first visit. There are no notes from the 
first engineer which suggests they noticed damage to the panel on that visit. Had the 
damage been as extensive as evidenced, I would have expected this to have been 
noted.
Mr and Mrs S have provided detailed testimony regarding the visits and what 
happened. I find these to be persuasive and have no reason to doubt their 
recollection of what happened. As such, Im persuaded that on refixing the bath panel 
on the first visit, it is more likely than not the engineer caused the crack. I think 
therefore it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to pay for this to be replaced.
RSA has accepted there was a delay in sending an engineer out initially and they 
have also acknowledged what happened would have caused Mr and Mrs S distress 
and inconvenience. Having considered everything, Im satisfied £100 compensation 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs S have been caused by RSAs errors.

Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party provided any further comments for me to consider by the deadline given in my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the same 
reasons as set out above, it is my decision that this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
To put things right RSA should do the following:
- Cover the cost of replacing the cracked bath panel. If Mr and Mrs S have already had this 
replaced, they should provide evidence of the cost to RSA. It should then pay that amount to 
Mr and Mrs S plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the date Mr and Mrs S paid for the 
panel to the date of payment.
- Pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman