DRN-2771058
The complaint
Mr and Mr W are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down a
claim made on the legal expenses insurance (LEI) section of their home insurance policy
(the policy).
All references to RSA include its claim handlers. And although the policy is held jointly in the
names of Mr and Mr W, Ive referred to Mr W throughout as this complaint relates to the
claim he wanted covered under the LEI.
What happened
After applying for a job with a prospective employer (who Ill refer to as the company), in
August 2019, Mr W attended an assessment and interview as part of the recruitment
process.
He says he was subjected to discrimination during the recruitment process and as such was
unsuccessful in his job application. He started Employment Tribunal proceedings against the
company.
In early 2020, Mr W made a claim on the LEI section of the policy to cover the legal costs of
him pursuing a claim against the company.
The claim was initially declined by RSA on the basis that Mr Ws Employment Tribunal claim
didnt arise out of a contract of employment. Mr W didnt think that was fair, particularly as
the term contract of employment isnt defined by the policy. He also said that the claim
should be covered under the personal injury section of the LEI policy. But RSA didnt agree.
Unhappy, Mr W complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
As he disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to look at everything afresh to
decide. I issued my provisional decision in March 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint either. An extract of my provisional findings is set out below: 
RSA has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms, the policy covers:
The cost of you taking legal proceedings against your employer over your contract of
employment.
I accept Mr Ws point that the policy doesnt define the term contract of employment.
However, I think its fair and reasonable to apply the everyday meaning to this term. And in
order to have a contract of employment, Im persuaded that a reasonable person would take
this to mean that there was a contract governing an employment relationship.
Mr W was never employed by the company he commenced Employment Tribunal
proceedings against; hed applied  and been turned down  for a job with it. So, I dont think
RSA has unfairly or unreasonably concluded that the legal proceedings he wanted covered
were not over his contract of employment for it to be an insured incident under the LEI.
Subject to the remaining terms, the policy also covers:
The cost of you taking legal proceedings against another person or organisation as
a result of an event which causes your death or bodily injury.
RSA has declined to cover Mr Ws claim on the basis that the psychological injury he says
was caused by the discrimination hed been subjected to by the company, didnt amount to a
bodily injury.
Ive taken on board all the points Mr W has made about the term bodily injury not being
defined by the policy, and that a phycological injury amounts to a bodily injury.
However, Im currently satisfied that I dont need to make a finding about whether a
psychological injury amounts to a bodily injury. Thats because even if it does, Im currently
persuaded that RSA has fairly and reasonably concluded the circumstances of the claim 
Mr W has sought cover for are also excluded under the personal injury section of the LEI.
The personal injury section of the LEI sets out whats not covered and that includes:
Any illness or injury which happens gradually or is not caused by a sudden or
specific accident.
Even if the policy covers a psychological illness or injury, Mr W says the psychological injury
was a result of the discrimination he experienced during the recruitment process after
applying for a job with the company. Hes also said that around the time of the interview he
had with the company:
I was undertaking an employment claim with a former employer for discrimination,
on introducing himself the assessor made reference to my ethnic background, during
my assessment the assessor made illegal enquires to my previous employer where
my protected rights & characteristics were illegally disclosed, as a result of this I was
not successful with the assessment & not successful with my application. In 2013 I
had reached a settlement with [the parent company of the company] as my employer
for discrimination in similar circumstances, I believe this also has something to do
with me being unsuccessful in this new application.
Although, accident isnt defined under the policy, I think a reasonable person would interpret
this to mean something that happens unintentionally and by chance. And considering the
actions of the company, which Mr W says led him to suffer psychological injury and
depression, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that this constitutes a
sudden or specific accident. So, I dont think RSA has unfairly concluded that his claim isnt
covered under the personal injury section of the LEI.
When making my proposed findings Ive considered all of Mr Ws other concerns including
that RSA discriminated against him under the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA) because of his
race and disability.
Its not the role of our Service to determine whether a business has breached the EqA 
thats something for a Court or Tribunal to decide. The role of our Service is to decide whats
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of an individual complaint, taking into account a
number of considerations. And that includes relevant law.Im not currently persuaded that RSA has treated Mr W any differently, or any less
favourably, because of his race by turning down his claim. Im currently satisfied that anyone
in the same circumstances wouldve been treated in the same way and their claim wouldve
been declined on the basis that an insured incident hasnt been established under the LEI.
Mr W also says he lives with depression and that stems from the way he was treated by the
company when going through the recruitment process. As our investigator explained in her
view, depression can amount to a disability under the EqA. However, it isnt a medical
condition thats automatically deemed to be a disability under the EqA.
But even if Mr Ws depression does amount to a disability (and the EqA is also a relevant
consideration in this regard), I dont think RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably, by first
requiring Mr W to establish that his claim relates to an insured incident thats covered under
the LEI, before accepting his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Mr W said he had nothing further to add. RSA didnt 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any substantive comments or provided any further evidence in 
response to my proposed findings - Im satisfied that theres no reason for me to reach a 
different outcome.
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision  which Ive set out above  I dont 
uphold Mr and Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman