DRN-3645055
The complaint
Miss D complains about problems with her TSB Bank plc internet banking facility which led 
to payments for her credit card being returned. 
What happened
Miss D has a current account and credit card with TSB. Miss D has told us that throughout 
2020 and 2021 she experienced repeated problems with TSBs online banking facility. Miss 
D says she had to report the issue on various occasions and reset her online banking facility. 
Miss D has told us that as a result of the online banking issues, payments for her credit card 
were returned unpaid and TSB agreed to refund interest and charges she incurred. 
In August 2021 Miss Ds payment was received one day after the due date. Miss D called 
TSB on 5 September 2021 and a call handler agreed to refund the late fee she had incurred 
as a result. During the call, the case handler offered to set up a direct debit for future 
payments to be collected. The call handler also discussed the requirement to make cleared 
payments by the due date. 
September 2021s payment wasnt received by the due date and a late fee was incurred on 
Miss Ds credit card. Miss D went on to complain to TSB and it sent her a final response on 
13 October 2021. TSB didnt agree it had made mistakes. TSB said it had offered to set up 
direct debits for Miss D in June and September 2021 but she declined. TSB also said it had 
sent Miss D statements setting out what she needed to pay and when. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ds complaint. They thought TSB had dealt with 
Miss Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Miss D asked to appeal, so 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has told us that problems with her online banking facility meant payments to her 
credit card werent always made on time. Miss D has also pointed out that TSB agreed to 
refund interest and charges on previous occasions which shows it accepted it had made 
mistakes. I take Miss Ds point, but TSB has confirmed it refunded interest and charges as a 
gesture of goodwill, not on the basis it made mistakes. Ive looked at what happened. 
We asked TSB for evidence of Miss Ds online banking log in dates during 2020 and 2021. 
TSBs explained it only retains information of that nature for a limited time, so it was unable 
to provide evidence going back that far. But TSB has sent us systems information that 
shows Miss D was able to make payments via her online facility throughout 2020 and 2021. I 
understand Miss D had to reset her online banking access on various occasions, but I 
havent seen evidence that shows that came about as a result of systems errors or mistakes 
by TSB. 
Miss D spoke with TSB in June 2021 as a credit card payment was around six days late. 
TSB arranged for a refund of interest and charges and also switched Miss D to paper 
statements. During the call, TSB also checked Miss Ds online banking credentials were 
active and working. 
In August 2021 Miss D made the payment online on the due date but didnt clear until the 
following day. Miss D spoke with TSB on 5 September 2021 and it agreed to refund the late 
fee and associated interest. Ive listened to the call and TSB confirmed Miss D needed to 
make a cleared payment by the next due date. At this point Miss D was receiving paper 
statements that had instructions about the different ways to make credit card payments. And 
the advisor asked Miss D whether they wanted to put a direct debit instruction in place, 
which wouldve made sure the next payment was taken automatically. In my view, TSBs call 
handlers tried to assist Miss D to ensure payments were made on time, even if she wasnt 
able to access the online banking facility. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but Im satisfied TSB gave her the relevant information 
concerning how to make payments. The information Ive seen doesnt show long term 
problems accessing Miss Ds online banking facility. And I havent found evidence that it was 
TSBs actions that caused Miss D to incur credit card late fees and interest. I havent been 
persuaded that its fair to tell TSB to refund further interest or charges to Miss D in this case.  
As Im satisfied TSB dealt with Miss Ds complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman