DRN-2948106
The complaint
Mrs D, represented by Mr D, complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt carry out 
proper checks before lending to her and then didnt cancel her direct debit when requested.
What happened
Mrs D entered into a £1,500 loan agreement with Nationwide Building Society in February 
2020. The loan was repayable over 24 months with monthly repayments of just over £70. 
The loan was rewritten in December 2020 resulting in the monthly repayments reducing to 
just under £55. 
Mrs D says that the loan was irresponsibly lent and that adequate checks werent carried out 
before it was provided. She also complained that she asked for her direct debit to be 
cancelled and was told this had happened, but this wasnt the case. Mrs D asked again for 
the direct debit to be cancelled and was told this couldnt happen.
Nationwide issued its final response to Mrs Ds irresponsible lending complaint on 1 March 
2021. It said that the loan was agreed based on its affordability and credit checks and it 
didnt accept it was irresponsibly lent. Following this, further discussion took place and 
Nationwide was provided with more details about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of the 
loan. Nationwide then agreed to accept a settlement figure of £889.11 which was the 
outstanding balance on the loan after all the interest paid had been deducted. 
Nationwide issued a final response on 19 March 2021 about Mrs Ds complaint that her 
direct debit wasnt cancelled when requested. It said that Mrs D called on 5 March 2021 and 
asked that her husband discuss her loan account. Mr D asked that the direct debit set up on 
the loan account be cancelled. Nationwide said incorrect advice was given and that the 
direct debit should have been cancelled. Nationwide said that Mrs D cancelled the direct 
debit instruction online that day. Because of the upset and inconvenience caused by it not 
taking the action it should have Nationwide paid Mrs D £50 as an apology.
Mrs D didnt think that Nationwides offer was enough considering the upset she had been 
caused and she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the checks carried out before the loan was provided were adequate. 
She said that the loan repayments appeared affordable and the credit check didnt raise 
concerns. She said that Nationwide wasnt aware of Mrs Ds vulnerability until this was 
raised in March 2021. 
Our investigator noted that Nationwide had offered a lower settlement figure which waived 
the interest on the loan after being told of Mrs D vulnerability and didnt think it was required 
to do anything further in response to this issue.
In regard to Nationwide not cancelling Mrs Ds direct debit when requested, our investigator 
noted that this issue had caused Mrs D inconvenience, first by being told the direct debit had 
been cancelled when it hadnt and then being given incorrect information about cancelling 
the direct debit on a second call. However, she noted that Nationwide had accepted 
mistakes were made and that a payment of £50 had been made to apologise for this. She 
thought this was reasonable.
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators view.
As a resolution hasnt been reached this complaint has been passed to me an ombudsman 
to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through all the information on this complaint and listened to the telephone 
recordings that have been provided, I can understand how upsetting the issues surrounding 
this loan have been. I am sorry to hear of the upset Mrs D has experienced and that this loan 
and associated issues have added to her distress.
In deciding what is a fair outcome to this complaint I have considered the actions taken by 
Nationwide when it provided the original loan and then when it was informed of Mrs Ds 
vulnerability. I have also considered the service Nationwide delivered when the requests 
were made to cancel the direct debit. 
Before a loan is provided we would expect Nationwide to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that the loan was sustainably affordable. The specific nature 
of a lenders checks will be determined by each business but these need to be sufficient to 
assess the affordability of the loan. In this case Nationwide carried out affordability and credit 
checks. I have looked at the information relied on at this stage and I think that the checks 
carried out were proportionate given the size of the loan, the repayment amounts and Mrs 
Ds monthly income. The credit check didnt raise concerns that I would have said required 
further investigation and as the loan repayments appeared affordable, I dont find I can say 
that Nationwide was wrong, based on the information gathered, to provide this loan.
When a customer is vulnerable we would expect a business to take measures to further 
ensure the suitability of any lending. However, in this case Nationwide wasnt aware of 
Mrs Ds vulnerability at the time of the loan and I have nothing to suggest that it should have 
been reasonably aware of this at that time. When it was made aware of Mrs Ds situation 
and the stress the loan was causing her Nationwide agreed a settlement amount that was 
equal to the outstanding balance once the interest paid had been deducted. I can see it did 
take a few telephone calls for this resolution to be offered, however these took place within a 
couple of days. Mr D accepted the offer on behalf of Mrs D and the settlement amount was 
paid. While I appreciate that going through this process was upsetting, I think that 
Nationwide did act fairly towards Mrs D by offering a reasonable settlement on the loan 
shortly after the issue of Mrs Ds vulnerability was raised. Therefore, I do not require it to do 
anything further in response to this part of Mrs Ds complaint.
The second part of Mrs Ds complaint relates to her request to cancel the direct debit. 
Nationwide has accepted that it didnt provide the service it should have done in regard to 
this issue. Mrs D contacted Nationwide to cancel her direct debit and this should have 
happened. Unfortunately, this didnt happen, and this was discovered on a subsequent call 
which Mrs D made and then asked for Mr D to take over. On this call, Mr D wasnt given the 
correct information and the direct debit wasnt cancelled. I can see the direct debit was 
cancelled by Mrs D later that day. The need to make more than one call and the direct debit still to not be cancelled caused 
Mrs D inconvenience. I also appreciate that given Mrs Ds anxiety regarding this loan and 
the payments and the mental health issues she was experiencing at the time, this would 
have been particularly upsetting. However, the direct debit was then cancelled online and 
Nationwide acknowledged that it hadnt provided the service it should have and paid Mrs D 
£50. 
I understand that Mrs D doesnt think £50 is enough given the distress that was caused. 
However, in this case I find this amount reasonable. I say this because Mrs D believed her 
direct debit to be cancelled but then discovered this wasnt the case. The issue was raised 
on a call which Mr D dealt with and while the direct debit still wasnt cancelled she was able 
to do this online that day. Therefore, in this case I think the amount paid by Nationwide in 
response to this issue is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society is not required to do anything further in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman