DRN-4253650
The complaint
Miss S complains about a declined claim on her motor insurance policy with Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
On 17 September 2021, Miss S had a collision with a traffic light and railings at a pedestrian 
crossing when driving home after being out with friends. It was in the early hours of the 
morning and the police attended the scene. Miss S failed to provide a specimen of breath 
and was arrested as a result. Later she was charged with drink driving but Miss S says she 
was acquitted when the matter went to Court.
Miss S claimed on her motor insurance policy. Admiral declined her claim, relying on the 
following exclusion.
11. Drink and drugs clause
 
If an accident happens while any insured person is driving and:
is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
is driving while unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without 
lawful reason.
 
No cover under the policy will be given and instead, liability will be restricted to meeting 
the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law and we will cancel your policy.
Miss S complained to Admiral who didnt change its position although it did offer £150 for the 
delays and shortfalls in its communications with her. As she remained unhappy, Miss S 
brought her complaint to our service. She says Admiral unreasonably delayed and declined 
her claim and the compensation offered isnt enough for the poor service shes received.
An Investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld as they couldnt 
say Admiral acted outside the terms of the policy. This is for the following reasons. 
- No evidence had been provided of the Court acquitting Miss S.
- Miss S failed to provide a successful sample of breath at the scene after three 
attempts. And, when she called Admiral to make the claim, admitted to being over 
the drink drive limit. 
- The police report stated Miss S had slurred speech, glazed eyes and smell of 
intoxicants on her breath. 
Finally, the Investigator agreed with the compensation Admiral offered for its poor service. 
Miss S didnt accept the Investigators recommendation and the matter has been referred to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must tell Miss S Im satisfied the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
I understand Admirals decision has had significant consequences for Miss S, financially and 
from a wellbeing perspective. And I appreciate shes frustrated it rejected her claim even 
though she wasnt found guilty of drink driving when the matter went to Court. But its not for 
me to comment on any decision made by the Court in this matter nor determine whether 
Miss S was unfit through drink or failed to provide a sample of breath. Instead, I need to 
decide whether Admiral - based on the information it had at the time - declined Miss Ss 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, acting fairly and reasonably.
Firstly, I think its useful to explain, an insurer and criminal Court rely on different standards 
of proof when making decisions. The criminal Court convicts based on the standard of proof 
being beyond reasonable doubt. An insurer makes its decision based on the civil standard 
of proof which is a lower standard of proof than the criminal one - on the balance of 
probabilities. It can be referred to as the Insurer being satisfied the occurrence of the event 
was more likely than not.
I can see Miss S feels its unfair the claim has been declined when she says she wasnt 
found guilty of drink driving by the Court. But the terms and conditions of her motor 
insurance policy dont require Miss S to have been convicted of drink driving or failing to 
provide a specimen of breath for the exclusion to be relied on by Admiral. And, whilst 
Admiral should take into account the Courts decision, its also entitled to consider all other 
available evidence. Having done this, Admiral was satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, 
Miss L was driving while unfit through drink at the time of the collision and failed to provide a 
sample of breath. The evidence it relies on includes the following.
 
- Two witness statements from police officers which confirm Miss S was arrested for 
failing to provide a breath sample at the roadside after three failed attempts. 
- One of police officers statements which said, when speaking to Miss S at the scene, 
the officer could see her eyes were glazed, her speech was slurred, and I could 
smell intoxicants on her breath which made me suspect she was under the influence 
of alcohol. 
- Phone calls between Miss S and Admiral where the notes record:
oMiss S as saying her sol has told her to plead not guilty but she was over the 
limit - 21 September 2021.
oThe above call was listened to and the notes made as a result state Agent 
asks the [policyholder] is [sic] she was DUI and when she was breathalysed 
she was definitely over the limit. [Policyholder] confirms that she was. Agent confirms that as she was over the limit we would not deal & even if not 
prosecuted, we still wouldnt deal.
oMiss S as saying on legal advice she has pleaded not guilty to the charge 
whilst over the limit as there were serious irregularities in the procedures 
adopted by the police  1 November 2021.
In light of this, Im satisfied Admiral fairly and reasonably considered the evidence here 
before reaching their position that  on the balance of probabilities  Miss L:
- was driving while unfit through drink at the time of the accident; and
- failed to provide a specimen of breath.
It follows Admiral fairly and reasonably applied the policy exclusion under the drink and 
drugs clause to decline Miss Ss claim and cancel her policy. So, I dont intend to interfere 
with this by asking it to do anything differently.
I note Miss S says the calls referred to above were at a time of deep distress, close to the 
accident, when she was in a state of shock and had been wrongly informed of the actions 
she needed to take by the police. Further, as the court didnt find her guilty, she doesnt think 
this can be used as evidence to decline her claim. I dont see things the same. Both calls 
were after the incident and I dont think it likely the police wouldve told Miss S to say these 
things. Even if this is what happened, I dont think it likely Miss S wouldve made these 
statements to Admiral if they werent correct.
Im not ignoring the fact Miss S says she was acquitted at Court. But I havent seen any 
evidence of this. I have seen a message from her solicitor which says Miss S was 
effectively found not guilty, but the message says this is because the prosecution asked for 
an adjournment, and this was refused with no evidence offered. This isnt the same as being 
found not guilty (or being acquitted) of the offence of drink driving. And it doesnt mean 
Admiral wasnt able to use the evidence from the police when it decided whether it was 
entitled to rely on the drink and drugs clause in Miss Ss claim. Even so, for the reasons set 
out above, the decision Admiral made is based on a different burden of proof and doesnt 
require Miss S to have been convicted of drink driving or failing to provide a specimen for it 
to be able to rely on the drink and drugs exclusion to decline her claim. 
Finally, Miss S told Admiral she failed to provide a sample of breath at the roadside due to 
asthma. I find it unlikely Miss S wouldve been charged with failing to provide the breath test 
if her version of events was accurate and she was medically prevented from providing a 
sample. I say this particularly noting there was no mention of this in the police report. Ive 
also not seen any medical evidence to support this.
In summary, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I find Admiral have fairly and 
reasonably considered the evidence here before reaching their position and I dont seek to 
interfere with it. At the core of this dispute, I find Miss Ss failure to provide a sample at the 
roadside and the evidence from the police officers in attendance and the things she told 
Admiral mean the position taken by Admiral is both fair and reasonable.
In relation to the delays and service issues experienced, Admiral admits it got things wrong. 
The issue I must decide is whether the things it did to put matters right are a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint. Im satisfied it is. 
I can see from what has been said by Miss S she has found this claim understandably 
difficult and has been both mentally and financially impacted. But I also think its important to 
say Admiral took this matter seriously and recognised the impact of its actions when the complaint was raised by offering compensation for its failings, apologising for the impact and 
providing feedback to individuals involved. 
Taking everything into account, I think the amount offered by Admiral adequately recognises 
the failures Admiral and their agents have made which have elongated the claim process 
and added further distress and inconvenience in addition to what Miss S wouldve 
experienced due to the collision and resulting Court proceedings  which Admiral isnt 
responsible for.
I recognise Miss S will be disappointed with the outcome, but this decision ends what we  in 
seeking to resolve this complaint against Admiral  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. So, Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited doesnt need to do anything more than its agreed to do to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman