DRN-3258473
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr Rs Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc. Hes 
unhappy that what he believed to be a payment holiday was actually a nil-payment 
arrangement, which was reported as arrears on his credit file.
  
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision dated 5 January 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr R and Halifax Im also aware 
that the investigator issued two detailed responses to the complaint, both of which have 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (and 
rounding any figures) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr R was made redundant in late 2018; he received a redundancy payout which enabled 
him to maintain his financial commitments, including  for the most part  his mortgage 
payments. His mortgage was reported as being in arrears when a payment he made on the 
last day of the due month reached the account on the first day of the next month, but Halifax 
later agreed to remove this entry from his credit file.
On 23 July 2019, Mr R spoke to Halifax on the phone; he wanted a two-month payment 
holiday, which he understood would not impact on his credit file. Halifax agreed what it has 
described as a nil-payment arrangement, confirmed in a letter issued the same day. Mr R 
made no payments in July or August 2019. On 13 September 2019, Mr made a lump sum 
payment that covered the payments for July, August and September, and regular direct 
debits resumed in October 2019. 
Mr R complained about the payment arrangement being reported as arrears on his credit 
file. Our investigator didnt think Halifax was at fault. Mr R has asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator. I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
It seems to me that the crux of this complaint, and what the outcome turns on, is an apparent 
misunderstanding between the parties on what was being agreed to in July 2019. As far as 
Halifax was concerned, it was a nil-payment arrangement. From Mr Rs perspective, it was a 
payment holiday. The distinction is vital, because of the different ways the two are reported 
on credit files. Nil-payment arrangements are reported as arrears, payment holidays are not.
Despite several requests, Halifax hasnt been able to produce a recording of the July 2019 
phone call; meanwhile, the confirmation letter merely refers to a temporary arrangement, 
without making clear what type of arrangement has been agreed.
Its apparent to me that preserving his credit file was of paramount importance to Mr R; hed 
have been aware of the reporting difference between the two concessions - Halifax told him 
as much during a phone call in February 2019. Also, Im persuaded Mr R could in all 
likelihood have made the July and August 2019 payments on time if need be. 
Mr R has told us he could have made the payments, but was wanting to use the money to 
help establish his new business instead. In the context of the wider circumstances, including 
that Mr R brought the account fully up to date in mid-September 2019, I find this testimony to 
be persuasive. 
Putting all that together, Im persuaded that, had Mr R been made fully aware during the 
July 2019 phone call that what Halifax was offering wasnt a payment holiday but a 
nil-payment arrangement, he wouldnt have taken it. 
I think that if Mr R had fully understood that what was being agreed in July 2019 would 
impact adversely on his credit file, hed have said no thank you and found a way to make 
the July and August payments as normal instead. 
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done so already. 
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings, although Mr R said he would have 
preferred a higher award of compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. Ive noted Mr Rs disappointment with the level of compensation; but as he himself 
acknowledges, the specific impact of the adverse information hasnt been quantified. My 
award reflects that.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to:
Treat the nil-payment arrangement as a payment holiday by removing any reference to 
missed payments in July and August 2019 from Mr Rs credit file; and
pay Mr R £200 compensation for his time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman