DRN-3135836
The complaint
Mr E is complaining Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wouldnt explain 
how it calculated his new monthly payments after he did a mileage adjustment on his 
consumer hire agreement. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr E entered into a hire agreement with VWFS to hire a car. In September 
2020 he contacted VWFS to say that, due to the impact of Covid-19, he wasnt using the car 
as much so he asked to reduce his annual mileage from 62,500 miles per year to 45,000 
miles per year. VWFS responded to say this would result in a reduction of £35.84 of his 
monthly payments.
Mr E responded to VWFS and said he thought the reduction would be more and he asked 
VWFS to explain and demonstrate how it had calculated the reduction. VWFS said it wasnt 
able to provide this information. It also didnt think it was required to do so because it wasnt 
contractually required to give a payment reduction where theres a change in allowed 
mileage. Mr E didnt think this was fair as he said he couldnt make an informed decision 
without this information. VWFS maintained it didnt have to provide it, so Mr E referred his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said it wasnt this services role to comment 
on how a business generates its quotations. And he said VWFS had explained its price 
adjustments are computer generated so it cant give a breakdown of how theyre calculated.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators opinion and, in summary, said the following:
He maintains VWFS treated him unfairly in calculating the adjustments to his monthly 
payments. 
He acknowledged he didnt have to accept the quote from VWFS, but he said VWFS 
hadnt supplied him with the information he required and asked for in order to make an 
informed decision as to whether the quote was correct or acceptable. 
He didnt agree with VWFS that it wasnt contractually required to provide a payment 
adjustment because it had written to him shortly after he entered into the finance saying 
he could apply to increase or decrease his agreed mileage allowance. So he thought this 
would indicate that mileage amendments were in fact a facility VWFS offered under the 
agreement.
He said, while the quote was computer generated, VWFS should be able to explain what 
figures were used in the computer process to calculate the adjustment.
As Mr E didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that this service isnt the regulator. So its not our role to direct VWFS 
generally about how it conducts its business or how it decides what to charge for providing 
finance. But I can look at whether it has treated Mr E fairly. 
Mr E is unhappy VWFS wouldnt tell him how it calculated the adjustment to his monthly 
payment. But I think how a finance provider calculates what it charges for finance is 
commercially sensitive data. I dont think its unreasonable VWFS wasnt willing to share this 
information. 
When calculating what to charge for a finance agreement, finance providers take into 
account a large number of factors. VWFS needed to explain the cost of credit to Mr E and 
what impact any changes he asked for would have on the contract. VWFS has done that. 
Ultimately, as I said above, how VWFS calculates its charges and monthly payments is 
essentially a matter of commercial judgement and isnt something with which we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I appreciate Mr E says hes unable to understand whether the change is correct and fair 
unless VWFS explained how it calculated the reduction but, as I said above, it didnt have to 
explain this. Ultimately, the terms of the hire agreement  like most hire agreements on the 
market  dont say VWFS was required to give mileage adjustments. So its at VWFSs 
discretion as to whether to allow consumers to do such an adjustment.
Ultimately, VWFS has explained the adjustment was computer generated. So I think the 
amount its charged is in line with what it would have charged other customers in a similar 
situation. So I think it has treated Mr E fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.  
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman