DRN-4008675
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money he lost to an 
investment scam.
Mr G is being represented by a claims management company in his complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision. 
The complaint concerns 12 faster payments totalling £20,655 which were made from Mr Gs 
current account with Lloyds to two different cryptocurrency exchanges between April and 
October 2021. The cryptocurrency was sent on to his account with a broker, Ill call it T. 
Unfortunately, T subsequently turned out to be a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr G made 
the payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. 
The payments Mr G made werent sent directly from his bank account to the 
scammer. All payments were made via another account in his name with two crypto 
exchanges which I understand he had control over. Under these circumstances, the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which 
requires signatories such as Lloyds to reimburse customers who are victims of 
scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances, doesnt apply.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the 
relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the 
law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
I acknowledge that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the UKs financial services 
regulator, published a warning about T in August 2021. But as Ive mentioned, Mr Gs 
payments didnt go directly to T. Unless Lloyds had reason to question him about the 
transactions, it wouldnt have discovered that Mr Gs dealings were with T. 
Ive looked at the operation of Mr Gs account in the months leading up to April 2021. 
I dont consider the disputed transactions, which ranged between £5 and £5,000, 
were particularly unusual or suspicious such that I think Lloyds ought to have 
challenged the payments. The first ten transaction amounts were in keeping with his 
spending activity and were spaced over several days and at times weeks. While the 
last two transactions  for £5,000 and £4,800  were larger in value, they were made 
several months after the initial transaction. There was also a gap of more than two 
months between these two transactions. By the time these transactions were made, 
the merchant the payment went to had become an established payee. 
Considering how spread out the disputed transactions were, as well as the individual 
amounts involved, I dont think the transactions in dispute were that remarkable such 
that they ought to have triggered Lloydss fraud detection systems. Accordingly, 
I dont think it was unreasonable that it executed Mr Gs authorised instructions 
without delay. Ive considered that the transactions were sent to legitimate crypto 
exchanges. While the FCA had warned about crypto exchange scams prior to Mr Gs 
payments, buying cryptocurrency is still a legitimate exercise. 
Ive also thought about the recovery of funds once Lloyds became aware of the 
situation. Banks are expected to contact the beneficiary bank and attempt to recall 
the payment as soon as theyre notified of a scam. It isnt clear if that is what also 
happened here. Regardless, Lloyds could have only attempted recovery from Mr Gs 
wallet with the crypto exchanges as that is where he sent money to from his Lloyds 
account. I find it unlikely that any funds would have remained in Mr Gs crypto wallet, 
given he converted them into cryptocurrency and sent that on to the scammer (albeit 
being duped into doing so). Im not persuaded that Lloyds could have done more to 
assist in the recovery of Mr Gs funds.
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mr G finds himself, 
I dont find that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be making an award 
against it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman