DRN-3880219
The complaint
Mrs Ds complained  on behalf of her late husband, Mr Ds estate  that Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined the claim made by the estate on Mr Ds life 
insurance policy, because they said hed made a misrepresentation in his application.
Mrs D has been assisted in making the estates complaint by two different representatives.  
Where Ive referred in this decision to comments from Mrs D, these include comments and 
information provided by the representatives assisting her.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr D bought a life insurance policy from L&G.  As part of the application, he 
answered a number of questions about his health and lifestyle, including the question:
During the last 5 years have you ever used any of the following?
-Recreational drugs other than cannabis, for example, cocaine, ecstasy, heroin
Mr D answered no to this question.
Mr D sadly died in autumn 2020.  As part of their assessment of his claim, L&G obtained 
copies of his medical records.  These showed that Mr D had taken cocaine in early 2015  
just over 4 years before hed bought his life policy.
On the basis of this information, L&G said that Mr D had made a misrepresentation about his 
health and lifestyle and that, if theyd known this information in 2019, they wouldnt have 
offered him cover.  So L&G declined the claim Mrs D had submitted on behalf of the estate 
and said theyd refund the premiums hed paid.
Mrs D complained to L&G about their decision.  She said the medical records referred to a 
single instance of Mr D taking cocaine and didnt suggest he was an habitual user.  She also 
said that Mr Ds death wasnt attributable to drug use.  And that, as the incident had been 
over four years before the application, Mr D may have mistakenly thought it was over five 
years previously.
L&G considered the complaint and wrote to Mrs D with their response.  They said that, 
although there was only a single incident of drug use, Mr D had sought medical assistance 
due to the reaction hed suffered.  L&G said this would have been memorable.  And they 
said theyd sent Mr D a copy of the application and his answers to the questions  so he had 
the chance to check hed given accurate information.  
Finally, L&G included an explanation of how misrepresentation is dealt with  including the 
fact that there doesnt need to be a link between the misrepresentation and the cause of 
death for them to void the policy.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with L&Gs response and brought the estates complaint to our 
service.  Our investigator considered it and concluded L&G had dealt with the claim in line 
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  known as 
CIDRA.  So she said they didnt need to do any more to resolve the estates complaint.
Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mrs Ds made on behalf of Mr Ds estate.  
I know that will be upsetting for Mrs D and Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain 
the reasons for my decision.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G say Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the question Ive quoted above.  Ive thought carefully about this.
I think the question is clear.  It requires a yes or no answer.  And it makes no reference to 
the regularity  or otherwise  of drug use.  So I think it should have been answered in the 
same way whether someone was a regular user, or whether  like Mr D  the use was a 
one-off event.
Mrs D has suggested that Mr D may not have accurately remembered how long ago the 
incident was.  Ive considered this.  But its clear from the information provided that Mr D 
suffered an extreme reaction to taking cocaine, which led to his hospitalisation.  I think its 
reasonable to say, as L&G did, that would cement the incident in his memory.  And that 
means Im satisfied Mr D didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in the 
application.
And Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one, within the meaning of CIDRA.  
L&G have provided a copy of their underwriting criteria, which Ive read.  Its clear that, if Mr 
D had answered yes to the question, his application would have been declined.  So Im 
satisfied that the policy wouldnt have been offered, but for the inaccurate answer to the 
question.
CIDRA also sets out what an insurer should do once theyre satisfied a qualifying 
misrepresentation was made.  L&G have categorised the misrepresentation as deliberate or 
reckless.  I appreciate thats upsetting for Mrs D, and Mr Ds wider family.  But, as Ive 
explained above, I think the incident wouldnt have been one which was easily forgotten.  So 
I cant say L&Gs categorisation of the misrepresentation was unreasonable.
In any event, whether the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or was careless, 
L&G were entitled to void the policy.  The key difference, in the case of careless 
misrepresentation, is that an insurer should refund the premiums paid.  L&G said they would do that on receipt of Mrs Ds bank details.  I think thats fair.  But I dont think they need to do 
any more to resolve the complaint shes made on behalf of Mr Ds estate.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mrs Ds made about Legal 
and General Assurance Company Limited on behalf of Mr Ds estate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman