DRN-3893644
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifaxs conduct in handling the 
closure of his bank account. 
Mr Ks account was with Halifax, a trading name of Bank of Scotland plc. For the purposes of 
this provisional decision I will refer only to Bank of Scotland. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision to both parties, which set out the details and background to 
this complaint as well as my provisional findings. I include these here now to form part of this 
final decision. 
What happened 
In late 2017 Mr K opened a bank account with Bank of Scotland, but a few days later was
informed by Bank of Scotland that the account was being withdrawn, and so the account
would be closed.
Mr K was able to withdraw the money that was in the account, and says he assumed the
matter was then closed. However, a few months later he learned the account was still being
reported on his credit file.
Mr K approached Bank of Scotland on several occasions, by calling them on the phone and
attending different branches to ensure that the account was properly closed.
The account was finally closed in July 2022.
Mr K complained to Bank of Scotland about the time taken to sort out the closure of the
account and pointed out the effort it had taken on his part to resolve the matter.
Bank of Scotland agreed it had taken too long to close the account, but explained that while
the account had continued to show as active for Mr K, this had not impacted his credit file.
To recognise that Mr K had needed to go to a branch on three occasions about the issue,
they offered him £50.
Mr K didnt accept the £50 as he said it was not enough to recognise the inconvenience to
him, and he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed things and concluded Bank of Scotland should increase their offer
to £150. Bank of Scotland agreed to this, but Mr K did not.
Mr K said the sum proposed by the investigator was derisory as the matter had caused him
five years of anguish, inconvenience and harassment. He said that across the five years he
had visited the branch on multiple occasions and made numerous calls. Mr K also said that
he had received marketing emails which he could not unsubscribe from as he had no
account with Bank of Scotland, and he had learned that his email and password had been
found on the dark web, associated with companies linked to the banking group that Bank of
Scotland belonged to.
To support his submissions Mr K provided information about the effort he had put in to
sorting out the matter by showing a screenshot of his home calendar to show when he
visited various branches on 16 occasions between November 2017 and October 2022; and
listed out the number of times he had called Bank of Scotland, which he noted as 32 times
between September 2020 and August 2022. Mr K also said he was still receiving marketing
communications from Bank of Scotland in September 2022. And he showed a search with a
third-party credit score provider that supported his email and password had been located on
the dark web. To resolve things Mr K said he was looking for a sum of around £6,800.
Our investigator reviewed all the additional information, but was not persuaded to alter their
initial conclusions. The investigator said while it was clear Mr K had been inconvenienced by
what had happened, they were mindful that it wasnt possible to know what all the
communications with Bank of Scotland related to, and overall, the impact to Mr K in terms of
his credit file and any financial loss was low. The investigator also said theyd not seen
anything to suggest Bank of Scotland were responsible for Mr Ks details appearing on the
dark web, and in any event it didnt appear there had been any financial loss from this.
Mr K also suggested that his credit score with one of the credit reference agencies had
improved after the Bank of Scotland account had been properly closed down.
Before reaching me for a decision, Mr K said he was now seeking compensation of £7,920
to resolve things due to the emotional toll the matter had taken on him, and the time and 
stress involved. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Understandably Mr K is upset with how long it took Bank of Scotland to properly close down
his account as they had said they would. I agree that the time taken to do this was not
acceptable. And Bank of Scotland have agreed that something went wrong here.
So, whats left for me to decide is whether the offer of £150 proposed by the investigator is
fair in the circumstances of whats happened. Having reviewed everything, I think the offer
should be increased to £300 in total, and Ill explain why.
In Mr Ks initial submissions to us he told us that on realising the account had not been
properly closed in 2017 he approached the branch and was told it was closed. Towards the
end of 2018 Mr K said he noticed the account was still on his credit file, so he called Bank of
Scotland again who said it had been closed and he should contact the credit reference
agency  which he did, and was told it was still open. Mr K says this had taken him to the
end of 2019, so he returned to different branches who he says told him the account was still
open and needed to be shut, and someone would get back to him. Mr K said as the
pandemic began in 2020 the matter remained unresolved, but he did receive marketing
emails from the group Bank of Scotland belonged to which he couldnt unsubscribe from.
Mr K says in 2021 when restrictions eased he called Bank of Scotland again and was told
the account was closed and that he should go to the branch for further clarification. Mr K
says he did this and was assured the account would be closed and he would receive
confirmation in the post. Mr K says this didnt happen, and in 2022 it was still showing on his
credit file. Mr K then raised his complaint, and eventually the account was closed.While a number of years passed before Mr Ks account was properly closed, it seems to me
there were large pockets of time where nothing was happening, so I cant say that for those
times Mr K was being put to any particular inconvenience.
It also doesnt appear that the account showing as active on his credit file had any
significant impact on Mr K. I note that hes suggested his credit score was impacted, but a
credit score with the credit reference agency is for Mr Ks purposes only and would not have
had any influence on any creditors Mr K may have approached during the time in question.
And other than the inconvenience and upset in trying to get the account closed, Mr K has
neither mentioned nor evidenced any other financial loss.
I am not doubting that this matter has been frustrating for Mr K as ultimately it took several
years to resolve. Im also mindful that when something has gone wrong there is a general
expectation that there is effort involved in looking to resolve things. Mr K believes he should
be compensated with a sum of around £7,000 for the trouble and upset this has caused him.
However, I do not think this is reasonable in the circumstances. Rather, in light of the above,
I think £300 is a fairer compensatory amount to reflect the inconvenience caused to Mr K in
having to engage with Bank of Scotland on several occasions to resolve the matter.
I understand Mr K is also upset as he believes it is due to Bank of Scotland that his details
have appeared on the dark web. However, there is just not enough for me to say that this is
as a result of something Bank of Scotland have done in this case. So I cant fairly hold them
responsible for this.
I also note Mr K is upset with the marketing information he continues to receive from the
banking group Bank of Scotland belong to. Mr K has said hes tried to stop the marketing
being sent to him, but perhaps understandably given the questionable status of his account
over the years, this has not been something he has been able to action. Therefore, and
unless it has already done so, I think Bank of Scotland should also look to ensure that Mr K
is removed from their customer mailing lists given it is my understanding Mr K is now no
longer a customer of Bank of Scotland.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint, and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as
Halifax, should pay Mr K £300 and look to remove Mr K from their customer mailing lists.
The parties now have an opportunity to provide me with any further submissions they wish to
make in reply to my provisional findings.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Bank of Scotland replied to my provisional decision and accepted the proposal to increase 
compensation to £300 in total. Bank of Scotland did not comment on ensuring Mr K is 
removed from their customer mailing lists. 
Mr K also replied to my provisional decision. Mr K said he had no new information to submit, 
but asked that the matter be considered in a different context. To summarise, Mr K felt it 
should be noted that for the periods of time when it appeared nothing was happening, he 
had been told to contact a credit reference agency to confirm the account was closed and 
removed from his file. He said that doing this took time and was inconvenient, given the 
account remained open and showed as dormant which could still affect his ability to obtain a 
mortgage or credit. Mr K also said he had spent much time and effort trying to sort the matter out, including 
using his lunch breaks and parts of his weekends, and this was due to Bank of Scotlands 
error. Also, had he not done this the account would have remained open. Mr K felt he had 
therefore been doing someone elses job. 
Lastly, Mr K said that having carried out his own searches, information available online 
suggests having a dormant account makes someone more susceptible to fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of Mr Ks most recent submissions, I have reviewed the complaint again, but based 
on the overall circumstances of the matter, I remain of the view that £300 is fair 
compensation and Ill explain why. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, having the matter being unresolved for such a length 
of time was not acceptable, and it was an inconvenience that Mr K needed to return to on 
several occasions to try and resolve. 
Mr K has said his approach to the credit reference agency to check on what was reporting 
on his file accounted for some of the time when nothing appeared to be happening. While 
Ive considered this, Im also mindful that typically it should not take much time to make a 
request to access your own credit file. And many people access their credit files regularly as 
a matter of course to monitor their financial standing. So this isnt enough to persuade me to 
alter my findings. 
I appreciate Mr K has talked about giving up his own time to sort the matter out, and in effect 
do someone elses job as he views it. Again, I am aware of the frustration these matters can 
cause. But as I noted in my provisional findings, there is an acceptance that there is effort 
required to sort a problem out. It is where that effort is more than could be reasonably 
expected that our service looks to make an award to fairly reflect this where its appropriate 
to do so. And that is why I was minded, in my provisional decision, to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint and increase the level of compensation. 
Ive further considered Mr Ks concerns about being more susceptible to fraud because of 
having had a dormant account, but as there is nothing to suggest this in fact had an impact 
on Mr K while the account was still showing on his credit file, its difficult for me to say Mr K 
experienced any loss directly because of this. As Im sure Mr K can appreciate, in such 
circumstances, our service cannot compensate for something that has not happened. So 
while I acknowledge Mr Ks concern, I cant say there is any financial loss here to consider. 
Taking everything into account in this case and based on the information available to me, 
and as there is nothing new to persuade me otherwise, overall I think £300 is fair in the 
circumstances to reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused Mr K. 
Putting things right
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax should pay Mr K £300 and, if they 
have not already done so, look to ensure Mr K is removed from their customer mailing lists 
as it is my understanding Mr K is now no longer a customer of Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax.My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Ks complaint is upheld, and Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax should put things right as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman