DRN-3117414
The complaint
Miss M complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
that Drafty should have checked her credit record properly and if it had it would never have 
lent to her. 
My finances and personal situation was not sufficiently checked to make sure Id be 
in a position to pay back the loan such as income, expenditure and financial history.  
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. The credit was unsecured 
and had no fixed duration. 
Draftys records show that Miss M applied for £1,000. Miss M declared a monthly income of 
£2,700 with outgoings of £1,050. Drafty says that it carried out checks. The credit limit for 
Miss M was arranged to be £1,000 in September 2019. Drafty explained to Miss M in its final 
response letter (FRL) that:
Your stated monthly income was £2700.00. Your stated monthly expenditure was £1050.00, 
leaving you with a monthly disposable income of £1650.00. Furthermore, we asked to 
subdivide those expenses into specific categories, and were provided with the following 
breakdown:
£475.00 for Mortgage / Rent
£75.00 for Utilities
£125.00 for Food
£75.00 for Transport
£75.00 for Credit Expenses
£225.00 for Other Payments
Using national averages for expense categories where data is available as a third party 
verification of this submission, we revised upwards the total stated expenses and this still 
resulted in a viable disposable income
The credit line amount approved was £1000.00 which, if the line was fully drawn down for 
a full-month, resulted in a minimum monthly payment to Drafty of £111.57, well within the 
overall disposable income
A credit worthiness check was completed and the third party credit reference agency 
confirmed a rating which was satisfactory for the line of credit obligation
The credit agreement (clause 5) set out the total cost of the credit based on some 
assumptions to illustrate the likely cost to Miss M. On the assumption that Miss M drew down 
the full £1,000 on the first day and then repaid it over 12 months in equal instalments then 
the total amount payable would have been just under £1,339. This would have equated to 
about £112 a month. 
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Miss Ms salary payment date and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement at clause 6 which 
I have not set out here. 
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near 
Miss Ms monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys initial approval for 
the account in September 2019 was satisfactory. She also thought that Drafty ought to have 
realised that Miss M was struggling from the autumn of 2020 and so our adjudicator thought 
that it should put things right for Miss M from January 2021.
Miss M thinks that the facility should never have been approved for her. She questions the 
credit search Drafty carried out and referred to the County Court Judgment (CCJ) entry on 
her personal credit file in March 2018. She said she had reviewed her bank statements for 
September 2019 and had credit commitments to a loan company, three credit cards, a firm 
of solicitors to repay the CCJ, and to a doorstep loan company. I appreciate this must have 
been a lot but most are quite regular credit arrangements and Ms M has not sent to us the 
amounts/details involved or copy bank statements for that period. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at 
the time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key 
element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider a number of 
different things, including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid. 
I need to explain to Miss M that upon first approaching Drafty in September 2019 it would not 
be expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and 
comprehensive financial review. Miss M was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit 
limit granted and the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable 
period (around £112) Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which 
suggested that Miss M had enough disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit 
of £1,000. And it carried out its own credit search. I note that Miss M has questioned how her credit score for Sept 2019 was 63 and Drafty 
had recorded it as over 600. But these are not a comparison of like with like. I think that the 
Drafty score may have been an internal company created score and may not have come 
from an external credit reference agency (CRA) at all.  And even it did emanate from an 
external CRA, I understand different credit reference agencies have different methods of 
calculating this score. And Im not familiar with how this is done. But in any event I dont 
think this has much bearing on the checks Drafty did and its lending decisions, and I say this 
because lenders offering these types of credit facility often lend to individuals who may have 
a lower than usual credit score or a mixed credit history. I have no better answer for her on 
this score point.
I do think that a CCJ 18 months before the approval date of the Drafty facility was significant, 
but I have nothing to indicate whether Drafty did or did not know about it. If it did know about 
it then, as our adjudicator said, having a CCJ in the past is not a reason not to lend. And if 
Drafty did not know about it then it would have made its lending decision unaware. But in 
order to resolve this complaint, I am being asked to decide whether I think that Draftys 
checks at the time Miss M applied to it for the credit facility were proportionate. 
I have used information I have about Miss M and considered the situation carefully. Having 
looked at all that Miss M has given me and Draftys information and submissions then I think 
that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would consider having 
been proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable and able 
to be repaid within a reasonable time which is one of the criteria it uses.
When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be 
expected from lenders when granting these types of loans. 
From August 2020, I think Drafty should have been on notice that Miss M may have been 
experiencing difficulties sustaining her repayments. And by 1 January 2021, I think Drafty 
should have permanently suspended the facility.
When Miss M missed her repayment on 31 December 2020, I think Drafty should have 
permanently suspended her account and prevented her from drawing down further credit. By 
this point, Drafty would have seen that Miss M had not paid anything towards her facility in 
August, November and December 2020. So, I think it was likely that she was struggling to 
meet her repayments and the facility had become unsustainable. 
Miss M had complained to Drafty about irresponsible lending on 20 November 2020, so 
Drafty was aware that Miss M was having difficulties repaying what she owed, which had led 
her to complain.
So, I think that by continuing to offer the credit facility, Miss M was exposed to additional 
interest charges.
Putting things right
By allowing Miss M to continue using her facility from1 January 2021, I think she lost out as 
a result. Drafty should put things right as follows:
A) Drafty should remove all interest, fees and charges from the account 
from 1 January 2021; and
B) treat all payments Miss M has made towards her account since 1 January 2021 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal; andC) if at any point Miss M would have been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is made; and
D) if there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds 
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then Drafty 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M; and
E) Drafty should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Miss Ms 
credit file from 1 January 2021.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. Drafty should give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, does as I have outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman