DRN-2579135
The complaint
Mr K complains Santander UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.  He also 
complains about the service he received.
Santander say the transactions were authorised.
What happened
Mr K complained about some transactions carried out in the early hours of the morning of 1st 
March 2020.  He said he had been at a bar the previous night through to the early hours the 
following morning with some friends, had been drinking and last recalls using his phone to 
make a payment between 1am and 2am.  He had not used his card.  He was using Apple 
pay which was registered on his phone.
In order to access his phone, Mr K said he used facial recognition or a password.  In order to 
complete an Apple pay transaction, his phone requires facial recognition also.
He had realised his phone was missing but did not report it straightaway.  
Mr K says he checked his find my phone feature when he got home at approximately 5.30 
am and his phone was shown as last used just before 5am  and in a location which Mr K 
says was in close proximity to the bar he had spent the night in.
In support of his submissions, Mr K also evidenced a transaction made to Amazon using his 
phone.  The order placed on his account was to a different address and one which Mr K said 
he had no knowledge of.  He said this was evidence of fraudsters having access to his 
phone and account details.
In relation to the security on his phone, he said he had not divulged his password to anyone.  
He thinks he may have been taken advantage of whilst under the influence of alcohol.
Santander says it did not receive Mr Ks call regarding the missing phone until 12th March 
2020.  He had contacted them during the afternoon on 1st March but that was in relation to 
the Amazon transaction.  When the adviser referred to the other transactions made during 
the early hours, Mr K confirmed he had not made them.  Crucially though, Mr K did not 
report his phone as being lost during that call.  
Santander refused to refund the transactions.  It said if Mr K had not made them himself, a 
fraudster would have needed to scan Mr Ks face on a number of occasions, and at different 
locations.  It just did not understand how this was plausible.
It rejected Mr Ks complaint and also gave him to notice to close his account.  It offered £75 
in acknowledgement of the delays caused in progressing the complaint.  And in its 
submissions to this service, it told us this was the tenth claim Mr K had made for disputed 
transactions on his account.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator did not think he could ask 
Santander to do anymore  so the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests Mr K authorised these transactions, Santander 
is entitled to hold him liable for them.  Authorisation is a two-stage test.  Santander must 
show these transactions were authenticated as well as showing Mr K consented to them.  If 
it is not able to do so, it follows that it must refund them.
Im satisfied the evidence shows the transactions were authenticated.  Thats the use of Mr 
Ks account details registered on his Apple pay being used each and every time.
And for very much the same reasons as the investigator, I think Mr K also consented to 
these payments.  In fact, I think its more likely than not that he made them himself.
The following points are worthy of note:
-In order to use Apple pay, Mr K would have needed to be present.  Im afraid I dont 
accept fraudsters could have used a photo of Mr K to wave in front of the phone
-The last attempted transactions were in the proximity of Mr Ks home address  not 
the bar as he said
-Mr K initially told this service he had reported his phone missing on 1st March.  The 
evidence from his mobile phone supplier suggests otherwise.  It says the phone was 
reported lost on 3rd March.  If Mr K knew his phone had been compromised, I think 
its likely he would have wanted to secure it as soon as possible
-Mr K does not tell Santander about his lost phone during his call on 1st March.  In 
fact, he doesnt tell Santander until 12th March. Again, I think its likely he would want 
to secure his account as soon as possible.
Overall, I dont find Mr K to be a credible witness.  His evidence is contradictory and there is 
no plausible or credible explanation as to how someone other than Mr K could have made 
these transactions.
I note his submissions in relation to the Amazon transaction, but I am not persuaded that this 
does in fact show that someone else had access to his phone.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman