DRN-3860779
The complaint
Mr J complains that Melton Mowbray Building Society didnt allow him to defer payments 
towards his commercial mortgages and hes unhappy with the steps it took when he fell into 
arrears.
What happened
Mr J had several mortgages with Melton Mowbray across five properties  these were all 
unregulated commercial mortgages.
In March 2020, Mr J asked to defer his payments to Melton Mowbray. He explained he 
needed this because he had:
Tenants in rental arrears linked to Covid-19 restrictions.
Paid out additional costs for planning permission and work on the properties in his 
portfolio which he thought would improve the loan to value and condition of the 
properties
Upcoming costs in relation to other properties  Mr J was the director of a company 
that owned homes of multiple occupancy (HMO) properties that needed work to bring 
them up to code.
This request was declined, but Melton Mowbray did agree to suspend capital repayments of 
£1,000 per month that had been arranged between them separately.
Mr J says he initially used personal funds to meet his repayment obligations, but he couldnt 
sustain this. His payment shortfalls on some of the mortgages began in September 2020, but 
he started to reduce these arrears in early 2021. Mr J provided a proposal to Melton 
Mowbray in February 2021 setting out how he could get his portfolio back on track. He 
stopped making payments to reduce his arrears when Melton Mowbray wouldnt confirm his 
proposal would be accepted.
Melton Mowbray rejected Mr Js proposal in May 2021. It also served Mr J with default 
notices on three of the properties and appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) receivers. At this 
point he was in between two and four months of arrears on each of these properties.
Mr J complained to Melton Mowbray; he says it didnt follow relevant guidelines such as from 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He thinks that if Melton Mowbray had agreed to defer 
his payments he wouldnt have fallen into arrears, and that Melton Mowbray would then have 
accepted his proposal, or hed have had time to find another lender.
Since then Melton Mowbray has sold two of the properties and the LPA receiver is in place 
to manage one property. Mr J is in control of the two remaining properties that are not in 
arrears.
Mr J wants to be compensated for the loss of income hes suffered  around £75,000 per 
year. Mr J says hes been under enormous stress which has affected his mental health. 
Melton Mowbray says it did show forbearance by reducing Mr Js payments by £1,000 per 
month. It says Mr J had interest only mortgages and so whilst a deferral may have helped 
Mr J in the short term, it would have left him with a higher outstanding debt in the long run  
and therefore put him in a worse position. Mr Js proposal involved further lending which it 
wasnt prepared to offer due to its total exposure, the arrears, and Mr Js choice to redirect 
rental income away from the society.
Melton Mowbray said the reasons for Mr Js financial difficulties varied and he had sufficient 
rental income to meet his monthly interest payments but chose to redirect these.
When Mr J complained to our service the investigator upheld the complaint. They thought 
Melton Mowbray ought to have agreed to defer Mr Js payments in line with the FCA 
guidelines at the time. But they werent persuaded that this would have prevented what 
ultimately happened, and rather it was likely this would only have delayed it. They 
recommended Melton Mowbray pay Mr J £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The investigator clarified that our service cant consider whether 
actions taken by the LPA receiver were fair as they dont fall within our jurisdiction  they act 
as agents of Mr J rather than Melton Mowbray.
Neither party accepted these findings. Melton Mowbray didnt think the FCA guidance in 
relation to payment deferrals applied to Mr Js mortgages as they werent regulated. And 
Mr J said if the payment deferrals had been made then hed still have his properties and be 
receiving an income from them. Mr J feels its misleading to say he redirected the rental 
funds when he was using these for legitimate purposes such as living costs and the running 
costs of his properties.
The matter was passed to me for consideration by an ombudsman and I issued my 
provisional decision on 25 November 2022. Here I explained I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint  in summary I thought Melton Mowbray ought to have provided Mr J with a 
payment deferral but that I wasnt persuaded he had lost out as a result of it not doing so.
Melton Mowbray accepted my provisional decision, but Mr J didnt. In summary Mr J said:
He didnt think hed have fallen into arrears if hed been provided with a three or six 
month payment deferral because his reduced income was directly affected by the 
pandemic, and at the time Melton Mowbray called in his loans the country and 
businesses were starting to open up. He says his income would have returned, and 
hed have been able to pursue any further rental arrears.
He thinks Melton Mowbray would have agreed to his proposal for further funding had 
he not been in arrears. It emailed him saying it didnt have the appetite to support his 
proposal because of the arrears that had built up. He says under the FCA guidance, 
lenders werent allowed to treat businesses in arrears any differently from those not 
in arrears.
He doesnt have evidence of alternative forms of funding because he was waiting for 
the outcome of this process before looking at pursuing alternatives.
Melton Mowbray wasnt acting in his best interests, he referenced matters that Im 
not considering as part of this complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including Mr Js further comments, Im not upholding this complaint, Ill 
explain why.
Mr J has raised a number of complaint points in relation to a portfolio of properties he owns, 
owned, or was involved with. For clarity in this complaint Im only considering how Melton 
Mowbray dealt with the mortgages in Mr Js name and not those in the name of separate 
limited companies he is or was involved with. Mr J has also been made aware that we arent 
considering new issues that hes raised since he made this complaint, and that those need 
to be (or have now been) raised separately  including the value two properties were sold 
for.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I want to assure Mr J if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr Js request for payment deferrals.
In March 2020, Mr J asked Melton Mowbray if he could defer his repayments for the reasons 
listed above  this request was declined. There was FCA guidance at the time Mortgages 
and Coronavirus: our guidance for firms setting out the support it considered lenders ought 
to provide in the exceptional circumstances arising from Covid-19.
I understand Melton Mowbrays point about the FCA guidance referring to regulated lending 
(which Mr Js mortgages were not) in the section on payment deferrals but the guidance also                             
says:
if an authorised person carries on activity in relation to an unregulated agreement which 
is secured on land (such as an investment property loan) under article 61a of the FS&M Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities (Order 2001)), then acting in a manner inconsistent with the 
guidance below could have an adverse effect on satisfying the threshold conditions.
So, Ive thought about whether Melton Mowbray has interpreted the guidance too narrowly 
leading to unfairness. And as part of this Ive thought about what good industry practice was 
at the time.
Having done so, I consider that it was good industry practice for lenders to act consistently 
and in the spirit of the FCAs guidance to lenders to support borrowers during the Covid-19 
pandemic, and for Melton Mowbray to have allowed payment deferrals in Mr Js 
circumstances. This means I think the starting point is that it would have been fair to expect 
Melton Mowbray to have agreed to defer Mr Js payments by an initial three months in line 
with the FCA guidance at the time. And to have provided a further three months when this 
guidance was updated. There wasnt an expectation at the time for lenders to investigate the 
circumstances surrounding the request and I cant see a fair reason was given for declining 
Mr Js request, such as it not being in his best interest.Whilst Ive concluded that Melton Mowbray ought to have allowed Mr J to defer his payments 
in March 2020, I dont think it automatically follows that Mr J wouldnt have experienced any 
of the issues he has subsequently faced. Ive needed to consider whats more likely than not 
to have happened to determine what, if anything, it would be fair to require Melton Mowbray 
to do to put matters right.
Melton Mowbray says that deferring the payments would have put Mr J in a worse position 
because it would only have delayed the steps its needed to take and left Mr J with a higher 
balance owing (due to the interest that would have continued to accrue). I havent seen 
evidence that this is why the deferral was declined but I have thought about this when 
considering the impact of Melton Mowbrays error.
Mr J says he wouldnt have fallen into arrears if Melton Mowbray had allowed him to defer 
his payments. But Melton Mowbray would have only needed to do this for up to six months  
i.e. between March and September 2020.
Mr J has explained that his financial situation was impacted by reduced rental income arising 
from the Covid-19 government restrictions, but also due to increasing costs. Hes also 
confirmed he initially managed to meet his repayments using personal funds. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that his tenants were able to repay their rental arrears or begin making 
regular contractual payments again before those properties were sold in October 2021. So, 
theres no evidence to support Mr Js belief that he would have been in a better position to 
meet his repayment obligations in September 2020 had a payment deferral been put in place 
in March 2020. Mr J still had outgoings on his properties as referred to above and was 
seeking significant additional funding for his portfolio. I therefore cant conclude that its more 
likely than not that Mr J wouldnt have fallen into arrears had Melton Mowbray agreed to 
defer his payments for six months. I think its more likely that Mr J would have fallen into 
arrears up to six months later than he did. I also think the fact that when LPA receivers were 
appointed their conclusion was that it was in Mr Js interests to sell two of the properties 
reflects the overall financial viability of the portfolio.
Mr J says that he could have refinanced with other lenders if Melton Mowbray had agreed to 
defer his payments. But he hasnt provided any evidence that other lenders were willing to 
provide him with the additional funding he needed. Mr J maintained his repayments for 
around six months after his request to defer payments was declined so he did have time to 
seek other lending before he fell into arrears. I understand he says he was waiting to do this, 
but I cant assume he would have been able to refinance without evidence to support this. 
Mr J has told us the rates with Melton Mowbray were preferable to what he could arrange 
with other lenders. As Im not persuaded hes lost out as a result of Melton Mowbray 
declining his request for payment deferrals, I dont intend on making an award to Mr J in the 
circumstances.
Our service doesnt make punitive awards and so it would only be appropriate for me to 
make an award if I thought Melton Mowbrays error had caused Mr J a loss (Ive explained 
above why I dont think this is the case) or if I thought it had caused the stress and upset 
Mr J has described. Whilst I do appreciate this must have been a very difficult time for Mr J, I 
think the stress and upset Mr J has described is a result of factors such as not having his 
proposals for further funding approved, the appointment of the LPA, and ultimately whats 
happened to his portfolio rather than due to not being granted the payment deferrals. So, Ill 
go onto consider whether Melton Mowbray has acted fairly in that regard up until the 
appointment of the LPA receivers.
Melton Mowbrays decision to decline Mr Js request for further lending.
I understand Mr J feels his proposal for additional funding in February 2021 would have been approved by Melton Mowbray had he not been in arrears (if his payment deferral had 
been agreed to) and that this shouldnt have been taken into account. 
The FCA guidance says payment holidays shouldnt be recorded as any form of detrimental 
arrears. But even if the arrears had been recorded as a payment holiday instead, Melton 
Mowbray wouldnt have been obliged to provide further lending. It would have been entitled 
to take into account the entire situation, including the running of Mr Js account and apply its 
own lending criteria.
I appreciate Mr J feels his proposal would have improved the portfolio and been in the 
interest of both parties. But the lending proposal here was bespoke, and Melton Mowbray 
has explained it wasnt prepared to increase its total exposure in the circumstances. On the 
face of it, I dont think it was unreasonable for Melton Mowbray to say it wouldnt provide 
further funding to improve Mr Js portfolio while he wasnt able to meet his existing interest 
payments. So, Im not persuaded Melton Mowbrays decision was unfair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr J has taken issue with how Melton Mowbray dealt with his proposal for further lending, 
including certain meetings that he requested not taking place. Ive reviewed the 
correspondence between the parties here and can see he was kept informed. I think there 
was regular engagement with Mr J, during which Melton Mowbray was seeking a more 
thorough financial review and highlighted Mr Js arrears. Mr J also met with senior staff to 
discuss the matter. Ultimately when Mr J stopped making payments to clear his arrears, a 
commercial decision was made not to continue supporting his proposal for further finance. At 
this point I dont think Melton Mowbray did anything wrong in not arranging further meetings 
with specific members of staff or the board to discuss this.
Mr J has also referenced unfair rates and charges on two previous proposed lending 
solutions  I note only one of these properties was in his name (rather than a separate 
limited company) so Ill only comment on that one. My understanding is Mr J is unhappy with 
the terms on which Melton Mowbray was willing to refinance this property. From what Ive 
seen in Mr Js emails to Melton Mowbray in July 2020, he felt the interest rate being offered 
was unfair because the repayments would be unaffordable once the mortgage moved to the 
follow-on rate in 2024. This was further lending and it isnt the role of our service tell a 
business to depart from its lending criteria (provided they arent inherently unfair or applied 
unfairly) and offer lower rates. It isnt unusual for a firm to only provide a fixed interest rate 
for a limited amount of time. Melton Mowbray offered a longer-term fixed interest rate and 
waived penalty fees in what appears to have been a genuine attempt to help Mr J maintain 
his portfolio with legitimate considerations taken into account. If the repayments under the 
standard variable rate would have exceeded the income on the relevant property then that is 
an affordability consideration and a question of whether refinancing was a viable commercial 
decision for both Mr J and Melton Mowbray  rather than a reason for Melton Mowbray to 
provide a lower rate.
Melton Mowbrays decision to appoint LPA receivers.
The terms and conditions of Mr Js mortgages say:
the borrower will be entitled to possession of the property unless any of the following events 
happen:
a. the borrower fails to pay a monthly payment in full within two months after the payment 
day for that monthly payment
when the Society will be entitled to possession of the property, the whole of the money owing from the borrower will become payable immediately and the powers to sell or appoint 
a receiver in section 101 of the law of property act 1925 will be exercisable by the Society
At the time Melton Mowbray served Mr J with a default notice and appointed LPA receivers, 
Mr J was in more than two months of arrears on the properties affected. So, I think it acted 
fairly and in line with these terms and conditions in the circumstances. Commercial 
mortgages are unregulated loans and therefore dont require lenders to give borrowers the 
same support provided to residential mortgage customers.
An LPA receiver is an agent that is sometimes put in place by the lender to act on behalf of 
the customer when they are in financial difficulties  they manage the property, and can 
exercise any powers the borrower themselves could exercise. If theyre unable to bring 
things back on track (or believe it isnt possible), they often make recommendations on what 
should happen and can be involved in the sale of the property.
Ultimately it was the LPA receiver here that recommended selling two of the properties. Our 
service cant make a finding on the actions or decisions made by the LPA receiver. And as 
Ive said, I havent gone on to consider the sales or value of the property sales as this is a 
new issue that occurred after our service received this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr J feels about whats happened here, but for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont intend to make an award in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman