DRN-2220422
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) did not make it clear enough 
that she had to opt in if she wanted to receive shareholder benefits, or perks.
What happened
Mrs B opened a stocks and shares ISA with HSDL in 2015. Earlier this year, she read a 
newspaper article which highlighted that shareholders who hold their shares through a third 
party might not be aware that they are entitled to shareholder benefits. When she contacted 
HSDL, it said its terms and conditions required her to opt in if she wanted to receive these 
benefits; and that she could do by telephone or web chat. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to this service, saying that she wants compensation for the 
benefits she could have received if HSDL had been more transparent. And that she wanted 
HSDL to amend its systems for all its customers.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
shareholder benefits were covered in the terms and conditions and that HSDL hadnt done 
anything wrong by requiring consumers to opt in.
Mrs B didnt agree saying, in summary, that a change in the system is required. She 
highlighted wording from the newspaper article which said, Many investors, chiefly those 
with shares through third-party brokers, said they had no idea they were eligible for vouchers 
until the situation was highlighted last weekend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider the individual circumstances of this complaint; to decide if HSDL has 
made a mistake; and, if it has, to order it to put things right including paying compensation if I 
think Mrs B has incurred a financial loss. My role is not to order HSDL to change its 
processes and procedures. This is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Mrs B is welcome to contact the FCA should she wish to do so.
Ive considered whether HSDL did enough to make Mrs B aware of how she could obtain 
shareholder benefits. And I agree with our investigator that it did, for the following reasons:
HSDLs terms and conditions, which Mrs B agreed to, say:
10.4 Some companies offer special benefits to their shareholders (that is, shareholder 
perks). As your investments will be pooled with those of other clients and will be registered 
in the name of the nominee company or a sub-custodian, we may not be able to claim 
shareholder perks for you. However, if we can claim shareholder perks for you and you ask 
us to do so, we will do this and pass them on to you.
I think it was made reasonably clear that Mrs B would need to ask HSDL if she wanted to 
receive these benefits. 
I have considered that this was a small clause in a large document and Mrs B may not have 
read every detail before she signed to agree the terms. If Mrs B had told HSDL she was 
buying a particular share specifically to obtain the benefits associated with it, I would expect 
HSDL to have told her what she needed to do to obtain those benefits. But Ive not seen 
evidence to persuade me that there was a reason for HSDL to draw Mrs Bs attention to this 
term.
HSDL has made it reasonably easy for Mrs B to obtain these benefits in future, should she 
choose to do so  she just needs to contact it to let it know.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman