DRN-3143400
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K had an annual travel insurance policy. It was underwritten by URV, and covered the 
period 25 September 2019 to 24 September 2020. 
On 9 February 2020 Mr K booked a skiing holiday in France. He booked lift passes, 
accommodation and transfers through a travel company and his flights separately. His trip 
was due to commence on 28 March 2020, but on 14 March 2020 the French government 
announced the closure of all non-essential businesses because of Covid-19. The ski resort 
Mr K was due to travel to announced its closure, and Mr Ks flights were cancelled by the 
airline. The Foreign and Commonwealth office (FCO) also advised against all but essential 
travel abroad on 17 March 2020.
Mr K was able to recover the costs of his transfers and ski pass through the tour operator, 
but he wasnt able to get a refund of his accommodation or his flights. So, he made a claim 
on his travel insurance policy. 
URV declined Mr Ks claim and said the details surrounding it didnt fall within the terms of 
his policy. Mr K complained, but URV maintained its position.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. They reviewed the policy and 
thought it had the potential to leave Mr K in a position where hed have had no cover if he 
travelled against FCO advice and no cover if he cancelled his trip. Our investigator didnt 
think that was fair or reasonable, so they upheld the complaint.
Mr K agreed with that opinion, but URV didnt and it asked for an ombudsman to review 
matters. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be 
upheld. That decision now forms part of this final decision, and it read:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have also taken into account the relevant rules and regulations set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, which say that a business should handle claims both promptly and fairly, 
and should not unreasonably reject them. And I have had regard to the relevant law too, 
including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
As I set out above, our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for URV to pay 
Mr Ks claim outside of the strict interpretation of the policy terms  as Mr K wouldnt have 
been covered if he cancelled because of FCO advice or travelled against it if able to do so. 
I appreciate why such a position might be reached in say, for example, circumstances where 
policy documentation is unclear in directing policy holders to certain exclusions. But having 
looked at the policy documentation in this complaint (that is, the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) and the full terms and conditions), Im not persuaded I can 
fairly reach that position here.
Mr Ks policy is divided into two sections of cover  a pre-travel policy (policy A) and a travel 
policy (policy B). So, because Mr K hadnt left for his trip at the point of claiming, the 
applicable terms are those found within the pre-travel policy.
The IPID is designed to provide consumers with essential information about their policy in a 
way thats easy to understand. At the top of the page one, it says:
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract which 
can be found in your policy documentation. The agreed sums insured are specified in your 
policy schedule.
And on the same page under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover?, it also says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The policy terms and conditions set out the important information and exclusions applicable 
to all sections of cover. On page 14, under the heading what is not covered, they say:
We cannot cover you if:
You travel against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
Full details of the cancellation cover available is set out on page 15 of the terms and 
conditions. There, URV lists the reasons for which it will pay for pre-paid costs (those that it 
says were booked before a trip started and which cannot be recovered from any other 
source) as follows:
If you are unable to travel because:
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts
your home, or your usual place of business in your home country, having suffered 
from burglary, serious fire, storm or flood within 48 hours of your intended departure
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law
you, or a travel companion being made redundant
of the requirements of HM forces
your outward journey was delayed by more than 24 hours because of a force 
majeure event
The same page also goes on to say:
BE AWARE! 
No cover is provided under this section for:
anything mentioned in what is not covered (page 14)the fear of an epidemic, pandemic, infection or allergic reaction
your disinclination to travel or any circumstance not listed above
your carriers refusal to allow you to travel for whatever reason
the cancellation of your trip by the tour operator
a previously diagnosed condition of any close relatives, your travelling companion, 
the person you are intending to stay with, or close business associate
your failure to obtain required ESA, Visa, vaccinations or inoculations in time
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign Commonwealth Office applicable at the 
time of your departure
So, while I agree that Mr K could have been in a position where he wouldnt have been 
covered if he cancelled because of FCO advice or travelled against it, I think the exclusions 
relating to this were set out in a clear and transparent way. 
I say this because the IPID set out that unless agreed, there was no cover under the policy if 
the FCO advised against travel. And the terms and conditions set out there was no cover for 
travelling against FCO advice, and no cover for cancellation because of FCO advice at the 
time of departure either. 
Mr Ks trip was cancelled for reasons outside of his control and I empathise with the difficulty 
he says the unrecovered costs have caused. But I must bear in mind that the onus would 
have been on Mr K to ensure the policy provided the level of cover he needed. And if Mr K 
wanted protection for changes in FCO advice, I think it likely that he would have been able to 
purchase such cover through the travel insurance market. 
I know that Mr K thinks that, in the alternative, URV should have accepted his claim under 
the force majeure term. This cover forms part of Policy B (the travel policy). The section 
refers to cover for a force majeure event which occurs whilst you are away. The policy 
benefits include cover for additional travel expenses to move to a safer area and cash 
benefits for food, drink, medication and additional accommodation. So I think that this 
section of cover is designed to offer cover if Mr K had been forced to move to a different 
area due to force majeure event. Thats not what happened here as Mr K didnt leave the 
UK. 
As I outlined at the outset Mr K booked accommodation, lift passes and transfers with his 
travel provider. So, it seems likely that his trip falls within the definition of a package holiday 
as set out within the Package Travel Regulations 2018 (PTR 2018), because he purchased 
two or more tourist services from his travel provider and paid for them as part of one 
inclusive price. This is also something thats specifically excluded under the force majeure 
section of the policy. So, although I appreciate Mr Ks position on there having been a force 
majeure event, Im not persuaded that I can fairly direct URV to accept his claim under this 
term. 
The circumstances surrounding Mr Ks claim do not fall within the terms of his policy. And 
although I realise Mr K will likely be disappointed by my findings, Im not currently persuaded 
that it would be fair of me to direct URV to accept his claim. As Mr K may have the benefit of 
protection under the PTR 2018, he may wish to refer this matter back to his travel provider 
bearing in mind the open letter issued by the Competitions and Market Authority to travel 
providers, which reminded them of their obligations under the PTR 2018.
Responses to the provisional decision.
URV responded to the provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr K responded and said he was disappointed with the change in outcome it proposed. He said he was effectively being told his policy wasnt worth the paper it was written on, and it 
wasnt fair to be in a position where he had no cover if he cancelled because of FCO advice 
and no cover if he decided to travel against it either. Mr K said his policy represented an 
unfair business practice and he asked that his complaint be reviewed again in line with our 
investigators earlier opinion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr K remains frustrated with the decline of his travel insurance claim. I wont 
repeat the findings I made about the FCO exclusions again here  because theyre 
explained in full within my provisional decision. But I will reiterate that I think the exclusions 
were set out in a clear and transparent way, and the onus was on Mr K to ensure the policy 
provided the level of cover he needed.
Mr Ks policy was designed to provide cover for a list of specified insured events and 
unfortunately the circumstances surrounding his claim werent included within that list. I dont 
think this represents an unfair business practice, but I acknowledge both the disappointment 
and strength of feeling Mr K has about the declined claim. 
I think it important to draw Mr Ks attention to the comments I made in my provisional 
decision surrounding the Package Travel Regulations 2018 (PTR 2018). Mr K purchased 
two or more tourist services from his travel provider and paid for them as part of one 
inclusive price. So it seems likely that his trip falls within the definition of a package holiday 
as set out within the PTR 2018. In view of this, Mr K may have the benefit of protection 
under the PTR 2018 and he might want to consider referring this matter back to his travel 
provider.
I am of course sorry to hear how disappointed Mr K is with my provisional findings, but 
having considered all of the responses provided Ive not been persuaded to depart from 
them. For the reasons given above and within my provisional decision I remain of the opinion 
that it would not be fair of me to direct URV to accept Mr Ks claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman