DRN-3207049
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about how long it took for overpayments made to her closed buy-to-let 
mortgage to be refunded by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mrs B made regular overpayments to her mortgage by standing order. In November 2020 
the mortgage was repaid, but Mrs B didnt cancel the standing order that made the additional 
payments. Three payments of £600 were made before she realised the mistake. She 
contacted Barclays on 2 February 2021 to ask it to refund the payments. Mrs B was told the 
refund would be processed within five days, but unfortunately, the member of staff didnt 
take details of the account she wanted the money paid into, so the refund couldnt happen. 
The money was eventually refunded to Mrs B on 1 April 2021  just over eight weeks after 
she requested it - but shes told us she had to call Barclays numerous times and had to wait 
in long queues each time. She has estimated that over the time it took to obtain the refund, 
she spent around 15 hours on the telephone to Barclays. 
Barclays completed a search for calls from Mrs B. Seven calls were located where Mrs B 
spoke to someone: one on 24 February 2021 (in two parts as she spoke to two different 
departments), two on 2 March 2021, two on 8 March 2021, and one each on 9 March 2021 
and 31 March 2021. In addition, two calls were located where Mrs B hung up before 
speaking to someone: 2 March 2021 (after queuing for 44 minutes) and 25 March 2021 
(after just 12 seconds).
16 April 2021 Barclays responded to Mrs Bs complaint and upheld it because it hadnt 
returned her money in a timely manner and the stress that caused her. Barclays offered 
Mrs B £200 as an apology for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused her. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and asked us to consider her complaint. 
When she did so, she said that the compensation offered wasnt acceptable as it didnt cover 
her time as a self-employed person, the stress of not receiving the money back in a timely 
manner (so it could be used) and the inconvenience she suffered. She also said that given 
the amount of time she spent in telephone queues; Barclays telephony system was not fit 
for purpose.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mrs B repeated that she didnt think the £200 offered adequately compensated her 
for her time and the stress the issue had caused her. She asked that the investigator listen 
to recordings of the calls she made to emphasise the errors made and the reasons she 
didnt feel Barclays had acted fairly or honourably. She reiterated that the time spent calling 
Barclays impacted heavily on her ability to work, was detrimental to her business and a 
constant distraction and disruption. She said that she believed she had lost earnings of 
£1,200 during the time, but would be willing to accept a payment of £1,000.
Our investigator didnt change his conclusions and Mrs B asked that an ombudsman review 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted that the level of service it provided Mrs B with was below what it 
should have been and that the refund should have been made more quickly. As such, I wont 
comment on that issue, but rather focus on what redress should be paid.
I have listened to the calls we received from Barclays and it is clear that Mrs B became very 
frustrated about the delay in the payments being refunded and the amount of time she had 
to spend requesting and chasing the return of the overpayment. As Barclays has said, this 
process took too long. In light of this, Mrs B has said that Barclays should pay for the time 
she spent rectifying the matter, which she believes was around 15 hours, at her 
self-employed hourly rate. 
As our investigator explained, this isnt something we would usually require a business to do. 
This is partly because a consumer is expected to spend time to help rectify a situation, 
especially one that they created. In addition, Mrs B has mentioned that she made calls on 
her days off, between clients and in the case of the longest call she mentioned, it started 
before an appointment, continued through it and was answered while she was travelling to 
her next appointment. This wouldnt suggest that Mrs B had lost business because of the 
need to make the calls. 
In this situation all that reasonably would be paid is a sum to compensate her for the 
frustration and inconvenience of having to chase Barclays after the initial call. I know that 
Mrs B wont agree with this, but I consider the £200 Barclays has offered in this regard is 
reasonable in the circumstances. If Mrs B wants to accept the payment, she should contact 
Barclays directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
15 February 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman