DRN-3399285
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc has declined to refund the money they 
lost when they fell victim to an investment scam in 2018.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs F and Mr R unwittingly authorised the 
payment  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the 
money from the payee bank.
What happened
In early 2018, Mrs F and Mr R were cold-called by someone claiming to be a working for a 
group of financial consultants. Mrs F and Mr R say they were told the consultants were 
construction industry investors.
They were told about bonds with terms of between three and five years, giving attractive 
annual returns from 9.12% to 10.35%. Mrs F and Mr R were told that the bonds were backed 
by investment in commercial property and more secure than a share-based investment. The 
supposed investment opportunity comprised loan notes issued by a limited company 
claiming to be engaged in commercial property development  what might now be classed 
as a form of speculative minibond.
Following a visit to the consultants offices in the City of London and having been given 
detailed sales information, Mrs F and Mr R explain that everything they saw seemed entirely 
legitimate and professional. The consultants sales brochure stated that this was an FCA 
approved institution, which Mrs F and Mr R say provided them further reassurance. They 
were persuaded this was a good investment. It transpires that the information they were 
given did contain inconsistencies, but these were not readily apparent, and Mrs F and Mr R 
did not spot them at the time.
Having completed the appropriate paperwork and an identity verification process, they opted 
for a three-year bond providing a fixed rate of return of 9.12% each year.
Using online banking Mrs F sent a first payment of £10,000 on 5 February 2018  a Faster 
Payments bank transfer from their joint HSBC account. The payment was being sent via an 
intermediary, apparently an accountancy firm, to provide added security (although Mrs F and 
Mr R have since learned it was almost certainly not a regulated accountancy firm). The 
property development company confirmed receipt, and all seemed well.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs F and Mr R received the first interest payment. This was for the sum 
of £912  unexpected, as the interest was due to paid quarterly rather than annually in 
advance. The property development company explained this had been an administrative 
error and did not require them to return the money.
In April 2018, Mrs F sent a second payment for a further £10,000. This time she made the 
payment in an HSBC branch, sending it to the same payee as for the first investment.
Mrs F and Mr R received the anticipated quarterly payments as had been promised. In total 
by 8 July 2019, they had received payments of £2,280 across the combined £20,000 bond 
holdings.
On 8 July 2019, Mrs F made a further investment. This third payment was made from a 
different bank account and to a different recipient account. HSBC had no involvement here. 
She subsequently saw some negative comments about the company online, and they 
changed their mind about the investment, asking for it to be returned. When this ultimately 
proved impossible, they realised the investment may not have been legitimate. Having 
conducted further research, they reported the matter to HSBC and the other bank.
The payment made in July 2019 was eventually reimbursed in full by the other bank 
following this services involvement, under the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code took effect on 28 May 2019, providing greater 
financial protection for fraud victims through the reimbursement of APP scam losses in all 
but a limited number of circumstances.
However, the CRM Code specifically excludes payments completed prior to 28 May 2019, 
such as the first two payments made to the bond by Mrs F and Mr R. Therefore, 
unfortunately, the CRM Code simply did not apply to those two payments. HSBC attempted 
to recover the funds theyd sent, but without success.
HSBC didnt consider it was liable to refund Mrs F and Mr R for the payments theyd sent 
in 2018. It explained that it had a duty to make payments in line with correctly authorised 
requests, which these had been. It had had no reason to prevent the payments. The bank 
questioned whether this was a scam or simply a poorly performing investment. 
Mrs F and Mr R didnt accept this outcome. They referred their complaint to our service for 
review.
Since Mrs F and Mr R first made their complaint to HSBC, the Insolvency Service has wound 
up the property development company, publishing a statement in January 2022 describing 
this bond scheme as being a scam. 
Our investigator upheld their complaint about HSBC. She explained that she thought HSBC 
could have prevented the scam by intervening. She thought this intervention would have 
revealed the investment was not one that was regulated by the FCA, and this would have 
prompted further checks which would have uncovered this was an elaborate scam.
HSBC didnt agree. It pointed to the development companys brochure which stated that the 
investment was unregulated. It argued this was in line with what it would have expected, 
saying commercial property development was not regulated by the FCA. For these reasons 
and others, it thought it had no cause to intervene, and that even if it had intervened it could 
not reasonably have been expected to identify this as a scam.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 February 2022. In it, I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs F and Mr Rs complaint. An extract of that decision is set out below and forms 
part of this final decision: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached a provisional 
finding that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, is that HSBC is not liable to refund the losses Mrs F and Mr R sustained through the scam they fell 
victim to. I am extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs F and Mr R and I 
appreciate this will be a significant disappointment to them. But I hope the following will 
help them understand why I intend to reach this decision.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
I will address what I think is the heart of the matter here, that being: should HSBC 
have recognised these two payments as being suspicious and intervened, and had it 
intervened would that have likely resulted in the scam being identified at the time?
It is common ground that both payments of £10,000 were made under the belief that 
the money was being sent to fund an investment with a property development 
company. That company has now been described in court as operating a scam, and 
aside from the money returned as interest payments, Mrs F and Mr R have lost most 
of the £20,000 sum they paid in 2018.
But that alone doesnt mean Mrs F and Mr R are entitled to be reimbursed by HSBC. 
That all depends on whether the bank did anything wrong  that is, could it have done 
any more to prevent the scam from taking place or intervened so that Mrs F and Mr R 
would have realised what was happening and not sent their money. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Both sides to the 
dispute agree on that. Mrs F and Mr R had taken the necessary steps to authorise 
HSBC to make each payment -these were both authorised payments.
In other words, at the time they sent the money, they authorised the payments and 
wanted them to be made. So, although Mrs F and Mr R did not intend the money to go 
to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, which apply to both 
payments, and the terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mrs F and Mr R are 
presumed liable for the resulting losses in the first instance
This holds even though Mrs F and Mr R were the victims of an extremely elaborate 
and sophisticated scam. I must take this starting position into account when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant times, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. It follows that I consider HSBC should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions. It did not identify either of the two payments made as being 
suspicious at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant account statements for the six-month period prior 
to when the scam began, in order to get a clear understanding of how their account 
typically ran. During that period, which encompasses a reasonably large number of 
transactions, no payments appear that exceed the sum of £500. I consider it fair to say 
that the first payment of £10,000 was therefore for a significantly higher sum than was 
typical for Mrs F and Mr Rs account. I think it is also relevant that this relatively large 
payment was being sent to a new payee.
I think these characteristics, in conjunction with the Mrs F and Mr Rs typical account 
usage were sufficient for me to reasonably have expected HSBC would consider this 
transaction as one carrying a higher than usual risk of being fraudulent. I think this risk 
was sufficient that it ought to have prompted some intervention by HSBC in relation to 
this first payment, such as calling to discuss the transaction with Mrs F and Mr R 
before releasing it.
By the time of the second payment in April, the pattern of usage of the account was 
different. Several similar sized payments had been made in the intervening period. The 
second payment was being made to the same payee as had received the first payment 
 it was no longer a new payee. Overall, I dont consider the second payment would 
have stood out as being significantly unusual or uncharacteristic.
So, I find that HSBC ought to have intervened at the time of payment one. That 
intervention did not take place, so I have to consider what the consequence of that 
failure was. In other words, I need to consider what such an intervention would likely 
have resulted in, including whether it would likely have brought the scam to light at that 
time. 
In doing so I must also take into account the extent of intervention reasonably 
expected (given the relevant considerations I have outlined above) of a bank such as 
HSBC in relation to an authorised online Faster Payments transfer.
Firstly, had HSBC contacted Mrs F and Mr R to ask them further details about the 
transaction, I consider Mrs F and Mr R had no reason but to have explained the 
situation openly and honestly in response to the banks enquiries.
In short, I consider it likely they would have explained that they were investing money 
in a commercial property development bond, and that this bond had been 
recommended to them by an adviser whom they had met in person at their offices in 
the City of London. I consider they would have explained that they had carried out 
sufficient checks to feel comfortable that they were investing in a legitimate scheme 
and they were making the payment as the result of a considered decision. 
I consider that while the initial contact had been made by a cold-call, the risk 
suggested by that potential warning sign would have been mitigated by the visit made 
in person to the brokers offices and the other checks Mrs F and Mr R had made. As 
HSBC points out the development companys brochure does not hide its unregulated 
status, and that status would not be unexpected for investment in an area such as 
commercial property development. Ive seen nothing to evidence that HSBC ought to 
have had specific concerns here.Arguably, at this point HSBC could have considered it was entitled to proceed with the 
payment they were being requested to make. It only needed to be reassured that this 
was not a payment based on fraud and not one likely to result in financial harm to Mrs 
F and Mr R. With the considerations Ive outlined above in mind, HSBC was not 
required to conduct a detailed investigation into such things as the soundness of the 
investment or whether all the claims made in the brochures were true. I cannot 
reasonably expect it to have taken such steps.
But even had it pressed further, I dont think the scam would have come to light at the 
time. I say this bearing in mind that this scam was an unusually complex and 
sophisticated deception. The property development company offering the bond 
appears to have been incorporated some five years before Mrs F and Mr R invested.
The brochures and other information Mrs F and Mr R had been given were both 
convincing and professional in appearance. If these did indeed contain falsehoods, 
that was far from apparent and I do not believe could reasonably have been uncovered 
by the bank at that time. There simply was nothing obvious here that would have 
indicated to either HSBC or Mrs F and Mr R that all was not as it seemed.
In other words, it is unfortunately the case that the very persuasiveness and 
professionalism of the scam would have made it very difficult for anyone to have 
uncovered the fraudulent nature of the scheme at this time. Indeed, its fraudulent 
nature was only established some considerable time later.
Mrs F and Mr R reported their concerns that they might have been the victims of a 
scam to HSBC in September 2019, and while the bank attempted to recover their 
funds, from what I have seen these had long since been removed from the receiving 
account. I dont think there was anything more HSBC could reasonably have done at 
this point to recover Mrs F and Mr Rs losses.
As Ive noted above, the CRM Code affords greater protection in these situations, 
specifically where consumers are the blameless victim of APP scams. Unfortunately, 
both these payments pre-dated the implementation of the CRM Code, and so it does 
not apply here. I cant fairly require HSBC to consider this under the CRM Codes 
requirements.
Overall
I am sorry to hear about the losses Mrs F and Mr R have suffered as a result of this 
particularly elaborate and complex scam. Everything I have seen indicates that they 
are the innocent victims here and have been left considerably out of pocket by a 
sophisticated deception.
But having considered everything, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have 
prevented these losses. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the CRM Code 
cannot apply here. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that 
HSBC should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for the loss.
It follows that I am not currently minded to make any order or award.
Responses to my provisional decision 
HSBC did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs F and Mr R did not accept the provisional decision. I have briefly summarised the key points they raised below, although I would stress that I have taken everything they have said 
fully into consideration: 
- They had obtained information showing that there had been concerns about the 
purported consultants that contacted Mrs F and Mr R at the latest by January 2018 
when they understand that the Police had raided its offices. 
- The Insolvency Service wound up that company in 2019 and flagged significant 
concerns about its regulatory status. It established that no-one at the company had 
been authorised by the FCA. So, the person whod contacted Mrs F and Mr R wasnt 
FCA authorised. Neither was the company itself. Had HSBC prompted Mrs F and 
Mr R to check these points on the FCA register then this would have come to light.
- Had HSBC asked how Mrs F and Mr R had learned of the opportunity they would 
have established this had been initiated by a cold-call from a supposed broker. This 
should have been a warning sign for HSBC.
- While the property development company had been incorporated in 2013, 
Companies House filings show that it was only transferred to the fraudulent operation 
in July 2017. The quick transition from an essentially dormant company to one 
seeking to issue £20m of minibonds should have presented further warning flags.
- They argue that companies largely financed by the issuance of transferable bonds to 
consumers are treated as carrying out a regulated activity and require either FCA 
authorisation or that the arrangement is carried out by an FCA authorised firm. The 
fact that this company wasnt authorised by the FCA shouldve been regarded as a 
warning sign by HSBC.
- The financial promotion had been approved by an FCA authorised individual, but the 
FCA confirms that the relevant approval had been removed in late February 2018. 
This was before at least one of the two payments they made.
- The intermediary to which payment was made did not appear to have been a 
regulated accountancy firm. Had HSBC carried out checks on the recipient of the 
payments it would have identified this as a further warning sign.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And to reiterate, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
complaint, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the time. 
I would stress that my decision here concerns solely the question of whether I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably bear liability for some or all of the losses sustained, 
given the facts available to me and the relevant obligations and expectations at the time. It is 
not intended to, nor should, have any bearing on any alternate sources of redress Mrs F and 
Mr R might conceivably have either now or in the future. 
I do not find Mrs F and Mr R at fault in what happened, they were the innocent victims of a 
complex and sophisticated deception. But that is not the same as saying HSBC necessarily 
bears liability for the money Mrs F and Mr R lost through this scheme. Ive given careful consideration to the response Mrs F and Mr R gave to my provisional 
decision. That response does not provide new information beyond that which was already 
available to me, but nonetheless Ive considered whether the points theyve raised lead me 
to reach a different conclusion than Id reached provisionally. However, having done so I 
have not reached different conclusions. I will briefly detail why.
I explained in my provisional decision why I consider HSBC ought to have intervened in 
relation to the first payment Mrs F and Mr R sent. However, I didnt consider reasonable 
intervention would have uncovered the fraudulent nature of the scheme and thereby 
prevented the payments.
Mrs F and Mr Rs response focusses predominantly on this latter point  whether there were 
factors present that HSBC should have identified (or pointed out to them) which might have 
led to the scam being prevented.
I agree with them that several aspects of this arrangement were indicative of something not 
being right. But the presence of those features is not enough for me to say HSBC should be 
liable here. The question is whether, had HSBC intervened to the extent Id reasonably 
expect it to have, these warning signs might have been uncovered or identified. 
For the same reasons I detailed in my provisional decision, while I think HSBC should have 
intervened when one of these payments were being made, that does not mean I can 
reasonably say it should have conducted a detailed investigation, or an interrogation of 
Mrs F and Mr R, such that it wouldve uncovered these concerning features of the 
arrangement theyd entered into.  Neither could I require it to have advised them on the 
suitability of the scheme the payment was destined for. I would expect enquiries 
proportionate to the information known by the bank when the payment instruction was made, 
and in line with good industry practice at the time.
At the time, HSBC did not intervene. So I gave careful thought to what would have been 
most likely the result had it done so, based on what I consider to be the balance of 
probabilities.
Ive taken account of the points Mrs F and Mr R highlight in response to my provisional 
findings. Some were directly addressed in my provisional findings, and some werent. My 
findings were based on what I thought should likely have been uncovered by HSBC and 
what that would have led to. While there were other factors of concern as highlighted by 
Mrs F and Mr R, I did not conclude it likely those would have come to light had HSBC 
intervened proportionately. 
I say that whilst bearing in mind what seems to me likely to have happened  given the 
level of intervention and enquiry I would have expected of HSBC in these circumstances and 
at that time. It remains my finding that, on balance, that these further aspects would not have 
been uncovered by a proportionate level of questioning on HSBCs part. The evidence Ive 
seen (including that highlighted in response to my provisional decision) leads me to find that 
this was a particularly sophisticated deception and not one that could readily have been 
unravelled or detected at the time. It simply was beyond what I could reasonably expect 
HSBC to have uncovered here or that Mrs F and Mr R would have likely uncovered either.
All things considered, while I am sorry to disappoint Mrs F and Mr R, the factors they have 
highlighted in response to my provisional decision do not lead me to a different outcome. 
To reiterate what I said earlier, I have considerable sympathy for what happened to Mrs F 
and Mr R here. They were innocent victims of what appears to have been an intricately constructed scam. But I dont find that HSBC could reasonably have been expected have 
prevented this loss, or that it should now be liable to reimburse them.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs F and Mr Rs 
complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman