DRN-2627254
The complaint
 Mrs C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1991. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Santander has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
This is because Santander recommended the policy to Mrs C, but I dont think it was suitable 
for her. The PPI policy had a restriction in it, which meant that you couldnt claim for 
something caused by any already-present medical condition.
Mrs C has said she had already started experiencing a medical condition, and says it had a 
significant impact on her day to day life, and she had taken time off work by the time the PPI 
started. She hasnt provided medical evidence of this, but I dont think that is surprising given 
how long ago this happened. But her testimony is convincing and, on the balance of 
probabilities, I have accepted that she did suffer from this condition before Santander 
recommended the PPI. 
I dont think the recommendation was suitable, and I dont think Mrs C would have taken the 
PPI if she had been made aware of the limitations in the policy.  
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs C in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mrs C the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she ask[s] for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs C compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman