DRN-3175175
The complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of his late mothers estate about HDI Global Speciality SEs (HDI) 
handling of a claim under her home buildings insurance.
What happened
In March 2018 a pipe burst in the loft at Mr Hs late mothers home. The leak caused 
significant damage to several areas of her home and a claim was raised with HDI. It 
appointed contractors to commence drying out of the property, prior to the repairs getting 
underway. 
HDI suggested contractors it would like to appoint to carry out the repairs. However, Mr H 
decided he would like to use local contractors closer to the property. A cash settlement was 
then agreed to pay for the repairs. This was based on quotations Mr H provided for the work.      
Mr H says there was a delay in the settlement payment being made by HDI and the drying 
process took longer to complete than estimated. He describes difficulties and delays in 
arranging for contractors to carry out the work, and with the quality of the work completed. 
Mr H explains that his late mother had health issues, which meant her home was 
uninhabitable to her, for a significant period.    
HDI says it isnt responsible for delays or the standard of work completed by Mr Hs 
appointed contractors. After the drying work was completed it estimated the repair work 
could be carried out within 12 weeks. 
One of our investigators looked into this. He decided not to uphold the complaint. He said 
HDI couldnt be held responsible for issues caused by the contractors Mr H appointed. The 
investigator felt that overall, the companys handling of the claim and settlement payment 
had been fair. 
Mr H disagreed and raised further concerns with the investigator, but this didnt change his 
view. Mr H has since requested that an ombudsman review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, I must explain that Mr H has complained about the disruption 
payment HDI offered for the period his late mother was out of her home, as well as costs not 
included in the settlement figure. These points were handled under a separate complaint by 
HDI and are being considered separately by this service. 
My consideration here is about the initial handling of the claim involving the contractors and 
the time taken to provide a settlement payment. 
Contractors
HDI accepted the claim for an escape of water under the late Mrs Hs policy.
Two contractors were then put forward by HDI to complete the required repair work. In his 
correspondence Mr H refers to both these contractors being situated some distance away 
from his late mothers home. He says one was three and a half hours drive away and the 
other around two hours away. Mr H thought it was better to arrange a local contractor, when 
factoring in travelling time and the impact this could have on the completion of the work.
HDIs records show it subsequently proposed another contractor. This one was based closer 
to the local area. However, Mr H chose not to accept this option and ultimately appointed his 
own contractor to carry out the repairs.
Mr H has submitted lengthy written correspondence in support of this aspect of his 
complaint, and I have read everything he has provided. If I havent commented on every 
point here, its not because it hasnt formed part of my considerations. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs view that his choice of contractor will have saved money and time 
compared with those initially proposed by HDI. I understand the point he is making. 
However, I dont think the company acted unfairly here. It proposed its approved contractors 
to carry out the work and offered an alternative when Mr H raised concerns. Because of this 
I dont think the company did anything wrong.  
Delayed settlement payment
Turning to the issue of the delayed payment. Mr H says that HDI didnt make funds available 
until August 2018 to cover the cost of the works. He says this delayed the arrangements for 
his contractor to begin work as he was reliant on this money to provide payment. 
I have thought about whether HDIs handling of the settlement payment, and the time taken 
to provide this, was reasonable. 
Mr H supplied quotes and invoices to HDI to demonstrate the cost of the work, as he was 
requested to do. I have seen copies of this documentation from his contractor, which is 
dated in mid-June 2018. 
Payment was subsequently approved by HDI and sent to Mr H in mid-August 2018. I think 
its reasonable to expect HDI needed some time to assess and process the quotations it 
received. However, this took approximately eight weeks, which is quite a long time. I 
acknowledge Mr Hs comments that given the cost of repairs, he wanted the money in the 
bank before instructing work to proceed. HDI hasnt demonstrated why this payment took so 
long to provide. Its reasonable to accept this should have been provided sooner. And I think 
its likely this did delay Mr H arranging work to start. 
Having considered all of this I dont think HDI acted fairly in its handling of the settlement 
payment. At the time the payment was being processed Mrs H was unable to live in her 
home because of the damage caused by the water leak. This was clearly a distressing time 
for her, as it would be for anyone. But she was elderly and had health issues which made 
the situation worse. 
HDI took a long time to provide the settlement payment, which meant Mr H couldnt progress 
the arrangements to carry out repairs. Its reasonable to accept this added to his late mothers distress, which also impacted on her family who were taking care of her at the time. 
This delay should have been avoided. So, I think a compensation payment for £300, payable 
to the late Mrs Hs estate is fair in these circumstances.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and was minded to require HDI Global 
Speciality SE to:
pay £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience caused, payable to the late 
Mrs Hs estate. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
HDI didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr H responded to say my decision effectively says he was wrong to try and save HDI 
money by using local trades. He says the job will have taken longer than HDI estimated if he 
had agreed to the contractors it proposed. He explains how the travelling time for these 
contractors will have limited the amount of time spent on site to five hours per day. 
Mr H has provided a letter setting out his concerns for both this complaint and his other 
complaint regarding the disruption payment. His comments regarding his other complaint will 
be considered under that reference. My focus here is on Mr Hs concerns about the initial 
handling of the claim by HDI involving the contractors. He hasnt raised further points or 
information about the delayed settlement payment, so I wont comment further on that 
aspect of my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I considered that HDI had proposed several contractors to carry 
out the repairs that Mr H didnt want to use. As above he thought they were situated too far 
away, and this would impact on the time taken to complete the repairs. 
I acknowledged that HDI proposed a contractor situated more locally in response to Mr Hs 
concerns. He decided against using this contractor and chose to use his own contractors 
and arrange the repair work himself.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments. Im not suggesting he was wrong to take the action he did. 
What I said is that HDI proposed its approved contractors to carry out the work. It then 
offered an alternative more local contractor when Mr H raised issues with this. I think its 
reasonable that HDI offered an alternative because of the concerns Mr H had voiced. But I 
havent seen anything in Mr Hs further comments that shows that HDI did something wrong 
or behaved unfairly.  
I understand Mr H will be disappointed. But his further comments havent persuaded me that 
I need to change my decision. I dont think HDI behaved fairly in the time taken to provide 
the settlement payment. But I think my decision that it provides £300 compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.HDI Global Speciality SE must:
pay £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, payable to the 
late Mrs Hs estate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman