DRN-1971173
The complaint
Ms B complains about the service provided by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
when she tried to make transactions online and over the telephone. She also complains that 
she isnt receiving paper statements despite specifically asking for them.
What happened
Ms B holds a current account with NatWest. In May she tried to make an online transaction 
to a retailer, but she says the transaction didnt go through and so the payment wasnt made. 
She thinks it was blocked by NatWest.
She also wanted to make a payment using telephone banking to a previous payee. When 
she tried to make the payment, she was told by NatWest that the payee was not saved, so 
shed need to provide their details again. She thinks NatWest is at fault for the payees 
details not being saved.
Lastly, Ms B says she asked to be sent paper statements for her account. She says that she 
hasnt received any, so she thinks her preferences have defaulted back to online statements 
in error.
Ms B complained to NatWest about the above issues. They said that the online payment 
Ms B tried to make was accepted by the fraud prevention system and later authorised by 
them. So, they said they werent responsible for the payment not going through.
They also said that when Ms B made a previous payment using telephone banking she 
wouldve been given the option to save the payees details. They said it seems as though 
she didnt do this and thats why the payees details were not available the next time she 
wanted to make a payment to them. They provided details of how she could make the 
payment online or over the telephone if she wished to. 
They also confirmed that theyd checked their records and Ms Bs statement preferences 
were set to paper, so they reassured her that she would receive them in the post. Overall, 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Unhappy with NatWests response, Ms B brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. In summary, they agreed with what NatWest said and 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong. But they did explain that NatWest had offered to 
provide Ms B with a community protection manager who could give her support and advice 
when using her account. The investigator thought this was a fair offer. Ms B disagreed with 
this and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Im aware Ms B says this complaint is a continuation of a previous one and that all the issues 
should be considered as one. But the previous issues were considered under a separate 
reference and a final decision has already been issued. So, under this complaint reference, I 
have only considered the following issues:
The online payment Ms B tried to make in May to a retailer, that didnt go through
The details that werent saved for a previous payee, which meant Ms B couldnt 
make a payment;
Ms Bs request for paper statements since June 2020
Online payment to the retailer
Ms B says she was on the retailers website to buy some goods, she input her card details to 
make the payment and the payment didnt go through. 
From NatWests records I can see that it received the payment request and authorised it. So, 
Im satisfied that NatWest did what it needed to do.
I accept that the payment didnt go through, but Im not persuaded that this was NatWests 
fault. There are several reasons that an online transaction might not go through, such as 
losing internet connection or an issue with the retailer. So, whilst I appreciate it mustve been 
frustrating for Ms B  I cant say that it was NatWests fault.
Details of previous payee
I can see from Ms Bs account that shed previously made a telephone payment to a payee 
for a service theyd provided. She says that when she wanted to make another payment to 
them, their details werent saved.
NatWest has explained that when a payment is made either online or over the telephone, the 
customer is given the option to save the payees details. Ive listened to a copy of the 
telephone call when Ms B made the payment and when asked if she wants to save the 
payees details, she says she doesnt want to. As a result, I dont think NatWest is at fault 
here.
NatWest has explained how Ms B can make the payment again if she wishes to - I dont 
think it needs to do anything further.
Paper statements  June 2020 onwards
I understand Ms B says she hasnt received any paper statements in the post, and she is 
concerned that her preference has switched back to online statements. 
NatWest has provided a screenshot of Ms Bs preferences and they are set to paper. Ive 
also checked the address they hold for Ms B and it is correct. Im not aware of any blocks on 
Ms Bs account or any issues NatWest is having producing and sending statements. So, on 
balance, I think its most likely theyre being sent.
In any event, NatWest has said it will provide Ms B with further copies if she wishes. If there 
are specific statements that Ms B is missing, she can contact NatWest for copies. Overall
I understand Ms B is unhappy with NatWest for several reasons. If she thinks that it cannot 
provide her with the level of service she expects, she could consider changing her banking 
facilities to a different provider. 
If she wishes to stay with NatWest, it has offered her a community protection manager, 
which is somebody who can give her support and guidance when using her account. This 
seems like a reasonable suggestion and if its something Ms B would like, she should let the 
investigator know or contact NatWest directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman