DRN-1489281
 
The complaint
Ms G complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard treatment of her when 
she has attempted to make payments.
What happened
Ms G says Barclaycard has deliberately made it difficult for her to make payments towards 
her credit card debt. She says Barclaycard has given her false information, refused to 
transfer calls or returned promised calls back to her. Ms G says the problems have been 
going on for years and Barclaycard deliberately disconnected calls with her.
Barclaycard says Ms G has been attempting to make payments to it by an international debit 
card. It says it has told her that is not the correct method of payment but can accept 
payments this way by discretion and normally only for a minimum payment amount. It also 
says it's checked its records, and says there have been six such payments since 2016. 
Barclaycard accepts Ms G spent an excessive amount of time on hold when she called 
it and that a call was disconnected. It initially offered to credit Ms G's account with £100 but 
on review says it will increase that offer to £200.
Ms G had brought this and another complaint to us which is being looked at separately. Our 
investigator thought Barclaycard's offer fair and reasonable for what had taken place and 
was a different issue to the other complaint.
Ms G doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Barclaycard has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation.
I'm satisfied that it's up to Barclaycard to decide which payment method it accepts from its 
customers. I'm also satisfied that having looked at Barclaycard's records that it has told Ms 
G on a number of occasions that she should not use an international debit card to make a 
monthly credit card repayment. I appreciate that on occasions Barclaycard has allowed Ms 
G to use an international debit card for payments. But I think it's up to it to decide to accept 
such a payment method, and that it's fairly explained why it chooses not to routinely do so. 
And I also think it has accepted payments this way to help Ms G and make sure a payment 
was made.
I can see that Barclaycard accepts that in May 2019 Ms G waited excessively to speak to it 
and that a call was disconnected. I don't think it's clear why the call disconnected and I 
have not seen evidence that this was a deliberate act as Ms G says. But I'm satisfied 
that Barclaycard has made a fair and reasonable offer to credit Ms G's account with £200 
for what took place. I think that offer reflects the time Ms G spent on hold and takes into account that I don't think Ms G suffered any financial loss.
I appreciate that Ms G may well have had problems over some years trying to make 
payments using her international debit card. But I'm satisfied for the reasons I have 
explained Barclaycard has fairly told Ms G how to avoid such problems. I have not seen any 
evidence Barclaycard has deliberately tried to frustrate Ms G or make it difficult to make a 
payment.
Putting things right
I'm satisfied that Barclaycard has made a fair and reasonable offer to credit Ms G's account 
with £200. But I appreciate that Ms G may not wish to accept that offer, and so I will leave it 
to her to decide. I'm also satisfied that this brings an end to what we, in trying to sort out this 
complaint informally, can do to assist Ms G.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. Ms G's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman