DRN-1681206
The complaint
Mr S complains as a Director of H, a limited company, that Barclays Bank Plc wrongfully 
withheld money from H and reported incorrect information about it to other businesses.
What happened
In March 2019 Barclays began an investigation into H's account and requested that Mr S 
provide evidence regarding recent transactions made using the businesses card 
payment terminal.
Mr S says that he'd taken the appropriate steps when taking card payments such as using 
the chip and PIN as well as requesting identification from the cardholder. He also supplied 
the requested invoices for the payments taken using the card terminal.
Following the investigation, Barclays says that it made a commercial decision to terminate 
its relationship with H. It also sent a request to H's business account provider - held with 
another bank - to return money that had originated from a card payment taken by H.
Once Barclays received the money back from the account, it continued to withhold the 
accounts balance of £44,504.53 from H.
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained to Barclays about the retention of money and 
the resulting closure of H's accounts with other businesses as a result of the information it 
had provided.
Barclays responded to Mr S's complaint on behalf of H and said that whilst it provided 
information to other businesses regarding its concerns, it was the third party businesses' 
decision to close H's account and therefore it couldn't be held responsible for this. It also 
said that it was a business decision to retain the funds and apologised for this.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service, and after a review of the evidence our 
investigator thought Barclays had retained H's money wrongfully. He recommended that 
Barclays return the funds without delay - including interest - and pay H £1000 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Barclays agreed with the investigator's assessment, but Mr S remained unhappy with the 
amount of compensation awarded. He says that as a result of Barclays' actions, H had lost 
in the region of £10,000 in income. He also claimed that H suffered serious financial difficulty 
as a result of the wrongful information provided to other financial businesses.
As Mr S disagrees with the assessment made by the investigator, the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has already agreed with the assessment made by our investigator and has 
returned the funds and interest to H as recommended. As this part of the dispute has been 
resolved, I've gone on to consider if the compensation recommended is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has indicated that the business suffered a financial loss of around £10,000 as a result 
of the error made by Barclays. He believes that Barclays should be held responsible for the 
closure of other accounts held in H's name and the decline of credit applications made on its 
behalf. Mr S says that these have been a result of a fraud marker placed against him 
resulting from information Barclays provided to other businesses.
Barclays didn't load the fraud marker, and so I can't say it's responsible for any of the 
problems that H experienced as a result. I accept that Barclays' investigation began a chain 
of events that resulted in the fraud marker being recorded, even if it wasn't Barclays that 
loaded it. I need to decide whether Barclays was the dominant or main cause of the 
difficulties H later experienced. And as it wasn't Barclays that loaded the fraud marker, I can't 
conclude that it was.
I do however feel that withholding the money from H and not returning it sooner has caused 
a substantial amount of inconvenience to the business and its operation. Mr S has been 
provided an opportunity to evidence any specific financial loss to the business but has been 
unable to do so. And I've also considered that the business did continue to trade following 
the holding of the money and closure of the account. But Mr S says that he spent a 
considerable amount of time dealing with the issue instead of concentrating on the general 
running of the business. And considering the small size of the business, this would likely 
have a considerable impact on its operation.
I've also taken into consideration that the immediate closure of H's card payment facilities 
meant that the business would have been restricted in the methods that it could have taken 
payments from its customers. Although alternative facilities were obtained, the fact that 
these facilities were withdrawn immediately would've inevitably meant a period of disruption 
to the business.
In addition to the above points, Mr S was unable to use the money being withheld - which 
was of substantial value - to operate the business. And I do think this would have had some 
further impact despite Mr S being unable to evidence any specific financial loss.
Putting things right
Having considered the above points, I think £1000 is a fair amount of compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to the business.
My final decision
For the reason I've given above, I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank Plc and direct 
them to pay H £1000 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman