DRN-3081026
The complaint
Mr M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited wont let him reduce his 
life assurance policy premiums. He thinks the policy was mis-sold. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2013 Mr M set up a life assurance policy with Legal and General. It provides £5,820 of 
cover for monthly premiums of £30. 
Mr M called Legal and General in February 2021 to enquire about reducing his policy 
premiums to £20 per month. It was initially suggested to Mr M that he could do this by 
reducing the amount of life cover. He was then referred to another department to obtain a 
quote for a new policy but, as they werent available at that time, a call back was arranged.
Legal and General contacted Mr M about his request to reduce his premiums. At which 
point, it was made clear to Mr M that he would have to cancel his existing policy and replace 
it with a new one. Mr M was unhappy with this as hed paid about £3,000 towards it so far. A 
complaint was logged.
The complaint was upheld in part by Legal and General. They confirmed its not possible to 
amend the cover as it isnt permitted under the policy terms. And they explained the only 
way of making changes to the cover would be to replace the existing policy. Legal and 
General apologised if this wasnt explained to Mr M when he contacted them. But, while they 
couldnt amend the policy, they acknowledged that it wouldve been helpful if theyd 
explained why this cant be done when Mr M first contacted them. And so, as a gesture of 
goodwill, they paid Mr M £50 compensation.
The matter was referred to our service as Mr M remained dissatisfied with being unable to 
reduce his policy premiums. He said hed ran into financial problems but didnt want to 
cancel his existing policy as the premiums hed paid so far would be lost. Mr M also 
explained that he was previously unaware the premiums had to be paid up to age 90, which 
meant he would end up paying about £8,600 and so more than the sum assured. Because of 
this, Mr M thought the policy had been mis-sold.
Legal and General said the mis-selling of Mr Ms policy wasnt part of the original complaint. 
But, had it been, then they wouldve confirmed that it was sold on a non-advised basis with 
no financial advice given to Mr M. 
Our investigator didnt think Legal and General had to do anything more. She said the policy 
was sold on a non-advised basis, which meant it was for Mr M to decide whether it was 
suitable for his needs. Legal and General were however required to provide information that 
was fair, clear and not misleading so to have allowed Mr M to make an informed decision. 
Having considered the policy summary document, she thought it was made clear to Mr M 
that the sum assured and premiums were fixed. And that the policyholder could end up 
paying more in premiums than the sum assured, depending on how long they live. So, our 
investigator thought Legal and General made it clear to Mr M how the policy worked. She 
also agreed that, while the policy premiums couldnt be reduced, Legal and General couldve 
explained this (and why) sooner to Mr M. Our investigator thought the £50 compensation 
was reasonable for the misunderstanding caused. 
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms dissatisfaction at not being able to reduce his premiums as I understand 
he feels invested in this policy given the premiums hes paid so far. But, while I know this 
isnt the outcome hes hoping for, I agree with our investigator that Legal and General is 
acting fairly by not allowing this. Im also not persuaded the policy was mis-sold either. Let 
me explain why. 
Before I do, I think it would be helpful if I explained that Mr Ms policy provides life 
assurance. This means it pays out the sum assured in the event of his death but, like other 
types of insurance, there isnt a cash in sum available (or policy value). So, the benefit Mr M 
receives from his policy  and has received so far  is having the cover in place while 
premiums are paid. In the event premiums stop being paid, then cover ceases to be 
provided (unless Mr M is aged 90 or older).
Mr M wants to reduce his premium costs as hes finding it difficult to afford them due to 
financial difficulties. Although I sympathise with his situation, I think the policy literature 
makes it clear the benefits and premiums payable are fixed. For example, the policy 
summary document under the significant features and benefit section says:
Your premium and cash sum amounts are fixed once the plan starts.
Choose a premium you can afford that gives you a cash sum which meets your 
needs and circumstances.
Im therefore satisfied that it was made sufficiently clear to Mr M that the policy premiums 
were fixed and so cannot be changed. 
I understand Mr M says he wasnt aware of this or that the premiums had to be paid up to 
age 90  which, at this point, hell have paid far more in premiums than the sum assured. I 
realise Mr M is worried that he may get less than what he paid in. But, again, I think this was 
likewise brought to his attention in the policy summary document which says:
If you reach your 90th birthday, you stop paying you premiums but your cover will 
continue for the rest of your life.

SIGNIFICANT EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS

Depending on how long you live the total premiums paid to us may be greater than 
the cash sum payable on death.
As the policy was sold on a non-advised basis, it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure it met 
his needs. And he couldve done this by reading the policy summary document  which I think clearly sets out how it works. Had Mr M done so, he wouldve known the policy 
premiums were fixed and that he may end up paying more than the sum assured. If this isnt 
what Mr M wanted then he couldve chosen another life assurance provider. I cant however 
hold Legal and General responsible for Mr M taking out the policy and then later being 
dissatisfied with the terms. For this reason, I dont think the policy was mis-sold or that Legal 
and General is acting unfairly by not allowing Mr M to reduce his premiums. 
Im aware Mr M has referred to other life assurance policies advertised on television that 
cost much less and are as low as £5 per month. While I can only consider Mr Ms policy 
here, these advertisements often refer to the starting level of cover available and therefore 
the cheapest premium cost. The premiums naturally increase when the amount of life cover 
is increased. So, these advertised premium costs may not be comparable to the level of 
cover Mr M pays for currently. 
Id also like to explain to Mr M that while I acknowledge his feeling of being invested in the 
policy, there is no cash sum or policy value. And so, his premiums pay for the cover provided 
but there isnt an investment or savings element attached to it. This means Mr M wont be 
losing the premiums hes paid so far if he chooses to take out another policy  whether with 
Legal and General or a different provider. The premiums hes paid have provided the life 
assurance benefit to date but he can choose to obtain different cover if he wishes  such as 
at a lower premium cost. He may want to seek financial advice to help him look into this 
further. 
On a final note, Ive considered the compensation Legal and General has paid. And I think 
£50 is a fair amount to recognise that they couldve made it clearer to Mr M that they couldnt 
action his request to reduce his policy premiums, and why, sooner. I therefore wont be 
increasing this further. I understand the £50 has already been paid but, if it hasnt, then Mr M 
should contact Legal and General about this. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Legal and General has to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman