DRN-3455892
The complaint
Ms B feels that Vanquis Bank Limited approved for credit which wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
In May 2016, Ms B applied for a credit account with Vanquis. Her application was 
successful, and Ms B was issued a credit card account with an initial credit limit of £250. In 
November 2016, Vanquis increased the credit limit on the account to from £250 to £500.
In 2021, Ms B raised a complaint with Vanquis because she felt she hadnt been able to 
afford the new or further credit that Vanquis had provided to her, and that this should have 
been apparent to Vanquis, had they undertaken checks into her financial position before 
approving her for that credit.
Vanquis looked at Ms Bs complaint. They confirmed they had undertaken checks into Mr Bs 
financial position before approving her for credit, and that there hadnt been anything 
resulting from those checks which they felt should have given them cause to suspect that Ms 
B might not be able to afford the credit being offered to her.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Vanquis had 
provided credit to Ms B irresponsibly, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
 
In this instance, when Ms B applied for the credit account, she told Vanquis that she was 
employed with an annual income of £23,500. Additionally, when Vanquis reviewed Ms Bs 
credit file, they saw that Ms Bs total existing credit was approximately £4,000, and that Ms B 
didnt appear to be struggling to manage her existing credit commitments at that time. 
Based on this information, Vanquis approved Ms Bs application for credit and issued her 
with a credit account with a £250 credit limit. Vanquis decision here doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me, and Im satisfied both that Vanquis did undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Ms Bs financial position before offering credit to her, and that it 
was reasonable for Vanquis to conclude that Ms B would in all likelihood be able to afford 
the relatively low amount of credit for which she was applying.
In November 2016, Vanquis increased the credit limit on Ms Bs account to £500. Before 
doing so, Vanquis obtained updated information about Ms B from a credit reference agency. 
This continued to suggest that Ms B was maintaining her existing credit commitments 
without significant incident. And while it did show that Ms Bs total amount of credit had 
increased from £4,000 to nearly £7,000, Vanquis didnt consider this increased amount of 
debt to be prohibitive when considered against Ms Bs previously declared annual income 
and the relatively modest £250 increase in the credit limit which was then offered to Ms B.
Its also notable from the Vanquis credit account statements that in the months leading up to 
the credit limit increase, Ms B had maintained the balance of the account comfortably within 
the credit limit and hadnt incurred any overlimit or cash withdrawal fees. This account 
management isnt suggestive of a customer in financial difficulty, and as such Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable for Vanquis to have conclude that Ms B would in all likelihood be able 
to afford the further credit which Vanquis then offered to her.
In arriving at this position, Im not declaring that Ms B wasnt struggling financially during 
2016 when these provisions of credit took place, and I acknowledge that Ms B may have 
been in financial difficulty at that time. But from the information about Ms Bs financial 
position that Vanquis gathered and assessed, I do feel that it was fair and reasonable for 
Vanquis to have concluded at that time that Ms B would most likely be able to afford the new 
credit account with a £250 credit limit and the later credit limit increase to £500.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Vanquis have acted unfairly or 
irresponsibly here as Ms B contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Vanquis to take any further action. I realise this might not be the 
outcome Ms B was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman