DRN-2284202
The complaint
Ms R complains about the poor service she has received from Santander UK Plc. In 
particular she says that in June 2015 she paid over £4,500 to clear a charge on her property. 
The charge related to an outstanding debt from a mortgaged property that was taken into 
possession in 2001. Ms Rs new property was used as security for this outstanding debt. A 
mortgage with Santander was also secured against the new property.
In 2015 Santander mistakenly released the deeds to the property rather than removing the 
charge relating to the debt Ms R had repaid.
-
Ms R says that as the deeds were released, Santander shouldnt enforce her outstanding 
mortgage debt and should write off her mortgage balance.
What happened
It appears that in 2001 a mortgaged property that Ms R owned was taken into possession. 
After the property was sold there was still an outstanding debt and this debt was secured 
against Ms Rs new property. Mrs R also holds a mortgage on the new property in joint 
names with her ex-husband.
In 2015 Ms R paid over £4,500 to clear the charge relating to the outstanding debt from the 
previous mortgage. A transfer of equity also took place and the property (but not the 
mortgage) was transferred to Ms Rs sole name. Due to an error on Santanders part instead 
of removing the charge relating to the previous mortgage it released the deeds to the 
property despite the mortgage balance not having been repaid.
Ms R complained to Santander. She said that as it no longer held the deeds to her property 
she thought this might have an adverse impact on her credit file. Ms R also said she didnt 
think Santander could enforce the mortgage debt as it had released the deeds.
Santander explained that in 2001 Ms R had signed a mortgage contract when she took out 
this mortgage and she had maintained the mortgage payments due. It said it felt this showed 
Ms R knew there was a contract in place, so it didnt agree that the mortgage debt wasnt 
enforceable. It did, however, accept that the service Ms R had received hadnt been 
satisfactory and it paid her a total of £80 for the trouble and inconvenience its poor service 
had caused her.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with Santanders response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said he felt the £80 Santander had paid Ms R was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint and he didnt think it needed to do more to put matters right. 
He noted that in March 2018 Santanders solicitors had written to Ms R asking her to sign a 
new mortgage deed. In this letter it explained that the loan was still payable even though the 
property deeds had been released in error. Ms R signed the new deed in May 2018.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with our investigators view. She raised several queries which our 
investigator passed to Santander. It provided a response on each point raised. 
Ms R wasnt satisfied with Santanders responses. In particular she said she didnt think it 
was reasonable for Santander to say that if she wanted to borrow more money this would 
be subject to a full application, a credit search and an affordability assessment, we may also 
require a valuation.
Ms R also noted that Santander had said that the property was held in her sole name, but it 
hadnt said whether the mortgage was still in joint names with her ex-husband.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have very carefully considered all the points Ms R has raised. Having done so I dont think 
Santander needs to do more that it has already done to put matters right. Ill explain why. 
It is not in dispute that Santander incorrectly released the deeds to the property in 2015. But 
it corrected this error in 2018 when Ms R signed a new mortgage deed. I appreciate that this 
error caused Ms R some inconvenience. I note that Santander paid Ms R a total of £80 for 
the trouble and upset its poor service had caused her. I think this is fair in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I dont think it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say that the mortgage debt should be 
written off simply because Santander made an error when it was administering this mortgage 
in 2015. In reaching this view I have taken into account that Ms R signed a mortgage 
agreement in 2001 and has maintained the contractual payments due. This shows that Ms R 
was aware that there was a mortgage contract in place.
In her response to our investigator Ms R said that she was still receiving mortgage 
statements addressed to both her and her ex-husband and she didnt think this was correct. 
It might help if I explain that Ms Rs ex-husbands name has not been removed from 
mortgage which is why the mortgage statements are addressed to both Ms R and her ex-
husband. It appears that in 2015 Ms Rs ex-husbands name was removed from the property 
 but not the mortgage. If Ms R wants her ex-husbands name removed from the mortgage 
she will need to apply to Santander to do so and it will then need to assess whether it is 
willing to agree to this. 
I note this was not part of the complaint Ms R referred to this service so if Ms R has any 
concerns about this process, she will need to raise them with Santander in the first instance.
Ms R has also said that she thinks it is unfair that if she wants to borrow more money 
Santander has said that this would be subject to a full application, a credit search and an 
affordability assessment, we may also require a valuation.
All lenders are required, by the industry regulator, to lend responsibly. In order to do so 
Santander is required to ensure that any lending it agrees is affordable for the customer both 
at time any lending is agreed and for the foreseeable future. As this is the case I dont think 
Santander is acting unreasonably when it says that any new lending will be subject to a full 
assessment. Again, I note that Ms R did not raise this issue in the complaint she referred this 
service so if she is not satisfied with Santanders response, she will need to raise this with 
Santander in the first instance.
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms R was hoping for, but I am required to be fair 
to both parties when considering a complaint. I would encourage Ms R to contact Santander to discuss her future lending requirements if she had not already done so and to discuss 
whether it would agree to removing her ex-husbands name from the mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I think the £80 Santander UK Plc has paid Ms R is fair and reasonable 
and I do not think it needs to do any more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman