DRN-4037632
The complaint
Mr R complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds poor service and delays in 
transferring his pension to another provider. He believes hes suffered a financial loss 
as a result of Avivas actions.
Although some of the contact with Aviva was made by Mr Rs independent financial 
adviser (IFA) at the time, for ease of reading, Ill refer to it mostly being made by Mr R 
directly.
What happened
Mr R was a member of an Executive Pension Plan (EPP) held with Aviva. Along with 
a former colleague, he decided to transfer his pension to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) with a new provider.
Mr R asked Aviva to calculate his plans transfer value. Aviva confirmed on 11 January 
2020 that the value of Mr Rs fund as at 2 January 2020 was £359,389.88. It said the total 
fund value was £515,042.00 once a terminal bonus of £155,652.12 was added. It 
explained that the bonus wasnt guaranteed and fund values could go up or down.
Mr R said he completed the necessary paperwork to enable Aviva to transfer his pension 
on or around 30 March 2020. It seems that Aviva received the application around 3 April 
2020 (it was logged on its system around 6 April 2020). Mr R then signed some forms for 
the receiving scheme around 6 April 2020 and a trustee declaration for Aviva on 23 April 
2020. Aviva appears to have received the declaration the following day.
Mr R called Aviva on 7 May 2020 to chase progress on the transfer. It said it received the 
trustee declaration form on 27 April 2020 (as indicated above, elsewhere it suggested it 
received it on 24 April 2020) and that it would take about ten working days from that point 
to complete the transfer and send funds to the new provider. Aviva thought it would 
potentially take three to five days for the payment to clear.
Mr R later complained to Aviva about delays and poor communication.
Aviva sent a complaint response dated 29 May 2020. It accepted there had been 
mistakes and poor communication on its part. For instance, it accepted that it should 
have checked the trustee declaration on receipt and have been able to issue an update 
or payment within ten working days. As it still hadnt sent a payment to the new provider 
by that point, it said it would work out how to put right any financial loss that Mr R might 
have suffered once the payment had been sent. In the meantime, it awarded Mr R £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Aviva sent a payment of £484,795.64 to the new pension provider on 4 June 2020. 
Information from the new provider suggested that the funds were reinvested over a series 
of days from about 8 June 2020 onwards.
Mr R got in touch with Aviva shortly after to query the difference in the amount 
transferred compared to the valuation given in January 2020.
Aviva explained that it increased its bonus rates on 1 January 2020 before giving Mr R 
its quote as at 2 January 2020. However, its final bonus rates decreased before it 
made the payment. Aviva suggested that Mr R might want to refer his complaint to this 
Service if he wasnt happy with the response.
Aviva wrote to the new provider in August 2020. It accepted it delayed in transferring Mr 
Rs pension funds and thought that might have had a detrimental effect on their value. It 
asked the new provider for information about the investments subsequently made, so it 
could work out whether there had been a financial loss. It looks like the new provider sent 
that information to Aviva around 21 August 2020.
In late September 2020, Aviva said it was in the process of completing a loss 
assessment. But as Mr Rs plan was invested in a number of different funds, each fund 
had to be calculated individually before it could provide the outcome of its loss 
assessment.
Mr R wrote to Aviva out of despair on 11 November 2020. He described a number 
of issues with its service and said he had no alternative but to refer his complaint to 
this Service. We received Mr Rs complaint shortly after.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and found that Aviva hadnt acted 
fairly. Whilst the investigator was satisfied that Aviva told Mr R the fund value wasnt 
guaranteed, he didnt think it had done enough to explain why Mr Rs valuation wasnt 
completed at the same time as his former colleagues, considering the requests were 
submitted at the same time by the same IFA. He felt Aviva needed to explain this. The 
investigator recommended that Aviva complete a loss calculation and pay Mr R 8% 
interest on any losses. He also recommended it pay Mr R an additional £350 
compensation on top of £100 it had already offered. Aviva agreed to pay the additional 
£350 compensation and provided further information.
Aviva said, amongst other things, that whilst Mr Rs transfer value request might have 
been submitted at the same time as a former colleagues, they were logged as separate 
tasks under separate policies. It said under normal circumstances it would expect 
quotations to be provided within ten working days  meaning they could be issued at any 
point within those ten days.
Aviva sent Mr R the outcome of its loss assessment in late October 2021. It estimated 
that it should have paid the funds to Mr Rs new provider on 11 May 2020, rather than 4 
June 2020. The upshot of that was the number of units bought was lower as a result of 
the delay. When working out the impact that had on any investment performance, Aviva 
said it had mirrored what actually happened - in terms of how long it took to reinvest in 
new funds and using actual fund performance data. Based on that comparison, Aviva 
worked out that Mr R was due a payment of £7,359.31. Mr R didnt agree with Avivas 
calculation.
Our investigator issued a follow up assessment having received additional information 
from Aviva. He noted Avivas explanation about why it had completed the transfer 
valuation on a different day to Mr Rs former colleagues. And he was satisfied that it had 
completed Mr Rs transfer valuation within the service standard it aims to. The investigator 
still felt though that Aviva took too long to complete the transfer process and subsequent 
loss calculation. Whilst he said we couldnt be certain when the transfer would have 
happened, he thought it probably would have been around 9 April 2020. So, he recommended that Aviva calculate any compensation due by comparing the notional 
value of Mr Rs fund on 9 April 2020 with what it was worth on 4 June 2020. He said that if 
the notional value was higher, the difference was the loss that Mr R had suffered. The 
investigator set out how that loss should be put right and again felt that an additional 
compensation payment of £350 was warranted (it looks like the payment might already 
have been made by the time he issued his follow up assessment). 
Mr R accepted the investigators assessment, but Aviva didnt. It said that when 
completing its loss assessment, it had taken account of when it had initially received the 
transfer request, and the missing information it had asked for. From that it confirmed a 
liability date of 24 April 2020. It said it was satisfied it had dealt with things such as 
outstanding information requests within normal service standards and should, therefore, 
have issued payment on 11 May 2020. It said the investments were correct because it 
had mirrored how long it took the receiving scheme to reinvest the funds once payment 
was received.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to an Ombudsman. Its 
been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr R and Aviva my provisional decision on 7 March 2023. Ive included the relevant 
extracts below.
Ill start by addressing the issue to do with different terminal bonuses being applied. I 
can appreciate why Mr R might have thought theyd be the same (and any subsequent 
reductions should therefore be comparable) especially when the transfer valuations 
were requested together by the same financial adviser.
But, Mr R and his former colleague each had their own plan with a separate number. So, 
that meant that Aviva had to calculate the transfer values individually, in the same way 
as it would do for any other customer who wasnt known to Mr R. And that wouldnt 
necessarily be done on the same day, despite how and when the transfer valuation 
requests were submitted.
Aviva has explained that the difference in values was as a result of different bonus rates 
being applied and Ive seen a brief timeline that it put together to support its explanation. 
This shows that bonus rates increased on 1 January 2020, just before Aviva calculated 
the transfer value of Mr Rs plan as at 2 January 2020. But they reduced again in mid-
April 2020 before Aviva finalised the transfer process and locked in the value as at the 
liability date. And I think that accounts for why different rates applied and the value of Mr 
Rs plan reduced compared to what was initially quoted. I can appreciate Mr Rs 
disappointment. But I think Avivas explanation is reasonable in the circumstances and 
reflects my understanding of what can often happen in these kinds of situations.
Turning now to the delays in dealing with the transfer request. I dont think theres any 
dispute that the transfer process and loss calculation took far longer than Mr R could 
reasonably have expected. But there is a dispute about whether Avivas calculations 
fairly recognise the extent of its delays and the true loss that Mr Rs pension fund may 
have suffered.
After very careful consideration, Im intending to reach a different outcome to our 
investigator about when the transfer would likely have taken place. On balance, I agree 
with Aviva that it should have been in a position to complete the process by 11 May 2020, 
rather than 4 June 2020. Ill explain how Ive come to that conclusion.Mr Rs recollection is that he filled in various forms around 30 March 2020 and Aviva says 
it received them on or around 3 April 2020 and logged the request on its system around 6 
April 2020. It appears that Mr R also filled in a form for the receiving scheme around 6 
April 2020. Given the normal sequence of events, Im satisfied those dates tie-in.
I can see that Aviva requested the completion of a trustee declaration sometime around 
11 April 2020. As I understand things, the process couldnt be completed until that 
information had been received. That doesnt seem unusual or unreasonable. Mr R 
signed the declaration on 23 April 2020 and Aviva confirms receiving it by email on 24 
April 2020. Thats how it arrived at its liability date of 24 April 2020.
I asked Aviva about its normal service standards for completing a pension transfer. In 
response it said it doesnt have any published standards of its own and that these can 
vary from company to company. Its pointed out that in other cases where its service 
standards have been questioned, this Service has referred to The Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) statement of good practice 2006.
Im familiar with that statement. Under the heading Timing and Communication it says:
Any paperwork or other requests relating to pension transfers that arrive at a schemes 
office should generally be completed within 10 working days. If this is not possible, 
wherever practicable the scheme should contact the consumer or their adviser to state 
when they expect to complete the item of work.
Ive taken Avivas response to mean that it aims to complete activity such as pension 
transfer requests within ten working days, so as to comply with the ABI standard referred 
to above. I think its reasonable for Aviva to mention the standard as I consider that a 
good gauge of whether Aviva acted in a timely way. Especially as its confirmed it has no 
service standards of its own for pension transfers. And whilst Aviva clearly didnt 
complete the transfer process within ten working days in Mr Rs case, Im satisfied its 
responses demonstrate that it understands its a reasonable standard to apply - 
especially when it comes to awarding redress. In any event, as Ive already said, I agree 
with Aviva that the process should have been completed by 11 May 2020.
But I dont agree with the basis for Avivas actual loss calculation. Ill explain why.
I can see from the information the receiving scheme provided that, having received the 
funds around 4 June 2020, reinvestment took place over a series of days between 8 June 
2020 and 12 June 2020. But, apparently applying the same logic, Avivas loss calculation 
is based on reinvestment having taken place from 28 May 2020 onwards, even though it 
accepted that funds should have been transferred on 11 May 2020.
I asked Aviva about this as, on the face of it, theres a disparity. In short, it appears from 
the response Aviva gave me that its added additional clearance time on top of each of the 
reinvestments. Its basis for doing so seems to be that under normal circumstances it 
would have sent the funds to the new provider by BACS. And that would have been 
subject to a three-day clearance period. That accords with my understanding. But given 
the delays in this case, it sent the funds by telegraphic transfer (TT) to speed things up. 
That seems reasonable. However, Aviva has suggested that in order to try to put Mr R 
back into the position he would have been in had it not been for the delays, its applied an 
extra three days processing time to each of the reinvestment transactions in order to 
complete its loss calculation.
But I dont think thats fair. I say that largely because that method effectively assumes that the receiving scheme didnt receive the funds in one go. Ive seen no suggestion thats the 
case. So, I think its fair to apply one three-day BACS clearance period to the funds. And 
by my calculations, as I think Aviva was in a position to send the funds on or around 11 
May 2020, I think the receiving scheme was in a position to start reinvesting them after 
three working days  so by 15 May 2020. It follows thats the date from which I think Aviva 
needs to apply the actual time it took the receiving scheme to reinvest the funds in order 
to arrive at a fair and reasonable loss calculation.
Responses to my provisional decision
After Id sent my provisional decision, Aviva said there was a mistake in the 
information it previously gave me. Whilst it initially said it should have sent funds by 
11 May 2020, the correct date should have been 20 May 2020 (it said it actually used 
that date in its loss calculation). Thats because it received a scheme change of 
address form on 6 May 2020, which it had to process. According to Aviva, it had ten 
working days in which to do that. So, it said that had a bearing on when it could 
complete its action. It added that it was satisfied the reinvestment dates it previously 
quoted were correct. Aviva didnt provide any comments in respect of the rest of my 
provisional decision.
Mr R said he had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about whether the clarification Aviva has given me causes me to 
change what I said in my provisional decision. It doesnt. Ill explain why.
The basis upon which Aviva says now that the transfer should have been completed by 20 
May 2020 (not 11 May 2020) is that it received a scheme change of address form on 6 May 
2020, which it had to process. According to Aviva, it had 10 working days in which to do that. 
The 10 working days that Aviva is referring to stems from what it says in the Association 
of British Insurers (ABI) statement of good practice 2006. 
Under a heading Timing and Communication it says:
Any paperwork or other requests relating to pension transfers that arrive at a schemes 
office should generally be completed within 10 working days. If this is not possible, 
wherever practicable the scheme should contact the consumer or their adviser to state 
when they expect to complete the item of work.
Aviva has already told me that it tries to adhere to that standard as far as possible. As it 
doesnt have a specific service standard of its own, I think thats reasonable. 
However, apart from the fact that Aviva wasnt able to meet the standard in Mr Rs case, I 
dont think its reasonable for it to say now that it had a further ten working days to 
complete the change of address process.
I say that because, as far as I can tell, that process was a fairly straightforward 
administrative task. Also, my interpretation of the ABI statement is that ten working days is 
to include processing time for administrative tasks such as a change of address -
especially given the reference to paperwork or other requests relating to pension transfers. In other words, I dont think it envisaged a further ten-day period being applied, 
especially not for a fairly simple task. So, once it received the trustee declaration on 24 
April 2020, I think Aviva should have been able to complete the process within ten working 
days. Ten working days of Aviva receiving the trustee declaration was around 11 May 
2020.
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Aviva acted fairly or reasonably here. I see no 
reason why it couldnt have updated the scheme address within a couple of days of 
receiving it, so by 8 May 2020, which would still have been within an overall ten working 
day processing window from when it received the signed trustee declaration on or around 
24 April 2020. It follows that I think Avivas actions had an impact on when it sent a 
payment to the new provider and when funds could reasonably be reinvested. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen and for the reasons Ive set out, I think Aviva should have 
completed the transfer by 11 May 2020 using the fund value as at the liability date of 24 
April 2020.
In addition, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I still dont agree with the 
basis for Avivas actual loss calculation. And nothing Aviva has said would cause me to 
change my mind on that front. So, Ive set out below what Aviva needs to do now to put 
things right. 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should now take the following action: 
Revise its loss calculation based on the following parameters:
Assume that £484,795.64 was sent to the receiving scheme on 11 May 2020 rather than 
on 4 June 2020. Allowing for three working days BACS clearance time, I think the 
receiving scheme would have been able to start reinvesting the funds as early as 15 May 
2020. So, based on how long it took for reinvestments to take place once the receiving 
scheme actually received the funds on 4 June 2020, Aviva should mirror the reinvestment 
periods as Ive set out below in the new column. So, for instance, tranche one took three 
working days to be reinvested (assuming 4 June 2020 is day one) once the receiving 
scheme received the funds. Assuming that funds would have cleared on 15 May 2020 
(meaning its also treated as day one), I think the first tranche of reinvestments would have 
happened on or around 19 May 2020 (and so on). Tranche Old Number of days New
1 8 June 2020 3 working days 19 May 2020
2 9 June 2020 4 working days 20 May 2020
3 10 June 2020 5 working days 21 May 2020
4 11 June 2020 6 working days 22 May 2020
5 12 June 2020 7 working days 26 May 2020
(allowing for a Bank 
Holiday)
Aviva should then compare the notional value (new) with the actual value (old). If the 
actual value (old) is lower, then Mr R has suffered a loss equal to the difference 
between the two amounts. When putting right that loss, Aviva also needs to take 
account of the payment it offered Mr R of £7,359.31 (assuming thats now been paid) 
in order to work out the residual amount thats due to Mr R.
If payment of the above compensation into Mr Rs pension plan isnt possible, or has 
any other tax or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement- 
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
On top of that, Aviva needs to work out whether Mr Rs fund has suffered further 
investment losses and pay those in too (subject to the stipulations I set out earlier). 
From what I can gather, Aviva has completed its loss calculation up to and including 
15 October 2021 when it did the work. But this calculation needs to be refreshed to 
account for any further losses up to the date of my final decision.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 28 days of the 
date Aviva receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple 
from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
28 days, that it takes Aviva to pay Mr R.
Theres no doubt that this matter has been a cause of great concern to Mr R. And 
whilst I do appreciate that Aviva had to complete a fairly complex loss calculation, I 
still think things took too long overall. I understand that Aviva has already paid the 
additional £350 compensation that our investigator recommended (making £450 
when factoring in the £100 it had already paid). Im satisfied that fairly recognises the 
impact of Avivas delays and service issues.
Aviva should send Mr R its revised calculation in a clear and easy to understand 
format.
My final decisionI uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman