DRN-3813701
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the service theyve received from SW Financial Management 
Limited (SW). Theyve said that SW didnt act in their best interests and misrepresented or 
omitted important facts relating to the investments SW advised them to take out, including 
information about dividends.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr and Mrs L received investment advice from SW in 2021. They were advised to 
invest £150,000 in a model portfolio on a low-medium risk basis. 
They liquidated the investments in 2022 after losing c.£25,000 of the initial sum 
invested and subsequently complained to SW. SW didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr 
and Mr L asked us to look into the matter. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary, she thought that the recommendation was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time and they had been made aware of any risks 
associated with the investment. She didnt think the term of the investment created 
cause for concern as Mr and Mrs L had told SW that they were eventually looking to 
pass on the investment to their daughter. 
She also noted that the documentation from the time of the sale said that Mr and Mrs 
L didnt require any withdrawals from the investment so didnt think it was 
inappropriate that SW hadnt alerted Mr and Mrs L to the fact that dividends were 
being produced.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators opinion. They said their main 
complaint was that theyd been misled and not been told about any dividends being 
produced or asked if the dividends should be reinvested. They also disputed that 
they wanted a medium to long term investment and highlighted documentation which 
noted that they wanted to take money from the investments within one to five years.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. As theres been no agreement the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld, for broadly the same reasons 
as the investigator. Id firstly like to say that I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ls strength of feeling 
about this complaint. 
I appreciate Ive summarised what I consider to be the key points of this complaint in much 
less detail than their submissions, but I mean no discourtesy by this, and it simply reflects 
the informal role of this service. However, Id like to assure Mr and Mrs L that Ive read and 
considered all the points theyve made and all the available evidence before making my 
decision.
Ive firstly considered the suitability of the recommendation. From what Ive seen at the time 
of the recommendation Mr and Mrs L were aged 73 and 68 respectively, owned their own 
house with no mortgage, had no dependents and were both retired. They had some 
investment experience and had c.£550,000 on deposit with £350,000 earmarked to 
purchase a new property and confirmed they had sufficient income to cover their monthly 
outgoings. 
They were assessed as having a low-medium attitude to risk (ATR) and the adviser 
recommended that they invest £150,000 in a low-medium risk model portfolio which he 
would manage on an ongoing basis. 
Ive also considered the point raised around the term of the recommendation being 
unsuitable. Mr and Mrs L have said that they made it clear to SW that didnt want an 
investment that would tie up their capital for years. The documentation from the time notes 
that the earliest they planned to take money out of the investment was within the next year, 
but they wanted to leave the money invested and only take out amounts as needed. 
From what Ive seen their portfolio was set up in a flexible way which meant that their capital 
wasnt tied up and could be accessed if required. Also, the level of risk that they were 
recommended to take didnt expose them to a high degree of volatility. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think the assessment of their ATR, or the subsequent recommendation 
was unreasonable given their objectives, circumstances and investment experience.
Ive then thought about the points Mr and Mrs L have raised about being misled - especially 
regarding dividends. I think its important to note that Mr and Mrs L had said to SW that they 
didnt require any income from their investment. So, while they werent explicitly made aware 
that dividends would be produced, Im not persuaded that even if they had been told, it 
would have resulted in a different recommendation. 
The documentation from the time notes that their objective was to invest for growth in order 
to achieve a better return than that offered by traditional deposit accounts. With this in mind, 
I dont think I was unreasonable for SW to utilise the dividends in order to try and achieve 
greater growth - either through re-investment or to cover charges.
So, in summary, Im not of the opinion that this complaint should be upheld. I think the 
recommendation wasnt unsuitable and I think SW treated Mr and Mrs L fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman