DRN-2440405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that the terms and conditions for their mortgage with Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax are illegal. They would like the mortgage to be cancelled and 
interest refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage with Halifax in June 2013. The mortgage was arranged 
through an independent financial adviser. They subsequently reviewed the interest rate on a 
number of occasions, and also took out further borrowing.
Mr J complained to Halifax in June 2020. He said he was unhappy with the way interest was 
charged on the mortgage. And he said that he believed it to be illegal.
Halifax responded to the complaint. It didnt believe it was charging interest illegally, and 
confirmed that interest was being charged in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. But it did find that Mr J had experienced some delays during his call, and it sent 
him a payment of £25 by way of apology.
Mr J wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and brought his complaint to this service. And he 
also said that, as the mortgage documents had been posted to him, they hadnt been signed 
and witnessed correctly.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said, in 
summary:
Hed seen documents that confirmed that the borrowing in 2013 had been 
recommended by a mortgage adviser. And there had also been solicitors acting on 
Mr and Mrs Js behalf; 
An offer letter was issued to the IFA, Mr and Mrs J and their solicitor and the 
mortgage completed. It would have been the advisers role to explain the mortgage to 
Mr and Mrs J, how it worked and the interest rates. It would also be their 
responsibility to complete the documents required;
As Halifax wasnt involved in the advice process he was unable to say they had 
made an error. If Mr and Mrs J felt they were misadvised then a complaint would 
need to be raised against the adviser firm;
It was the solicitors role to ensure all the legal requirements were met and that the 
property was correctly registered with the appropriate land registry to show the 
consumers as the proprietors and the lenders charge;
It was for the solicitor to ensure that the transaction was legal, and there was nothing 
to suggest that the process was not completed correctly; 
He had looked at the terms and conditions of the mortgage and the mortgage 
illustration documents. These set out the interest applicable and the monthly 
payments. He wasnt persuaded that the interest applied was not in line with the 
terms and conditions Mr and Mrs J had agreed to and so didnt think Halifax had 
applied it unfairly.
Mr and Mrs J dont agree with our investigators conclusions. Mr J says in particular that it is 
not legal for Halifax to charge interest in the way it does.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all the information Mr and Mrs J have referred to us, the relevant 
law and regulations and Mr and Mrs Js circumstances when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case. Having done so, I havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
As our investigator has explained, how a business operates its business model and 
financing is a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and not something this 
service can look at.
In relation to the interest and charges on Mr and Mrs Js mortgage with Halifax, Ive looked 
at the mortgage offer issued to Mr and Mrs J in 2013. I can see that Mr and Mrs J were 
recommended to take the mortgage by an independent financial adviser. And I therefore 
agree with our investigator that if Mr and Mrs J feel that they were misadvised then they 
should complain to the mortgage adviser.
I also agree that it was for Mr and Mrs Js solicitors to ensure that all legal requirements 
were met. 
The mortgage offer sets out the interest rate charged and the monthly payments. From the 
information Ive seen, this information has also been given to Mr and Mrs J when they 
changed product on their mortgage, and when they took out additional borrowing. And 
Halifax says  and I accept  that it has kept Mr and Mrs J informed of the details of their 
mortgage through annual statements and update letters where required. 
On the basis of the evidence supplied to me, I havent seen anything to suggest that Halifax 
has charged interest other than in accordance with the provisions of its terms and conditions. 
And Mr and Mrs J have had the benefit of the money lent to them. So Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Halifax to do anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman