DRN-4015085
The complaint
Mr W complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked his account and then failed to remove 
the block when the original issue was resolved. 
What happened
Mr W complained to Lloyds when he tried to login to his online account with them on 13 
August 2022 and couldnt. That was due to a block being applied on his account. It 
transpired due to an issue a month earlier with another of Mr Ws accounts - held with the 
banking group Lloyds is part of - a block had been placed on all his accounts with that 
banking group. Lloyds said the block on his other account had been removed once the issue 
had been resolved but, owing to human error, Mr Ws Lloyds account wasnt re-instated as it 
should have been.
Lloyds upheld the complaint in respect of failing to remove the block from this account and 
offered to pay Mr W £20 compensation. They didnt uphold the parts of the complaint about 
why his Lloyds online banking had been impacted when the transaction questioned was on 
another account. Lloyds said that both brands of bank account were part of Lloyds Banking 
Group. And this meant the link between the two accounts was justifiable and in line with their 
internet banking terms and conditions. Mr W referred the matter to us.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Mr W wouldnt necessarily have made any 
link between his two accounts and to discover that his Lloyds account had been inexplicably 
blocked may have been quite alarming. And although the impact of the error was limited it 
was unexpected and meant Mr W had to make an additional call to unblock this account. 
The investigator recommended the compensation payable to Mr W ought to be increased by 
a further £50.
Lloyds accepted the outcome. Mr W didnt respond initially and the case was closed. After 
hearing from Mr W the case reopened and he asked for the matter to go to an ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall outcome reached by the investigator. I think this 
complaint should be upheld partially and an award of £70 in total is a reasonable reflection of 
the trouble and upset Mr W has suffered here.  Ill explain my reasons for coming to this 
conclusion.
The extract Lloyds have sent from the Internet Banking Agreement satisfies me they are 
able to display information about other accounts Mr W might have with the banking group on 
Internet Banking.  And the extract from the terms is clear that they may suspend use of 
Internet Banking in certain circumstances. So, I cant say they did anything wrong in their 
initial suspension of access to this account. 
But Lloyds accept their mistake in failing to then re-instate the online banking on Mr Ws 
Lloyds account. I think, the compensation thats they originally offered didnt properly reflect 
the inconvenience here. But I think the investigators recommendation of a further £50 does 
and is the sort of award Id have made had it not already been suggested. I think thats a fair 
and reasonable outcome here.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W a further £50 compensation making a total of £70.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W a further £50 
compensation making a total of £70.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman