DRN-3399845
The complaint
Mrs S, as director of M, complains about the decision of Aviva Insurance Limited to decline
Ms business interruption insurance claim for losses incurred following the COVID-19
pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended to act merely as a summary of the events and arguments involved 
in this complaint. I will then go on to address what I consider to be the key issues.
M operates as an ophthalmic opticians business and held a specialist commercial insurance 
policy underwritten by Aviva. The policy included a number of areas of cover, including for 
business interruption. In March 2020, Mrs S made the decision to close M on health and 
safety grounds owing to the risks posed by COVID-19. She contacted Aviva to claim under 
Ms policy, but Aviva declined the claim.
Aviva said that the standard business interruption cover provided by the policy was based on 
situations where damage to property had led to the interruption, and COVID-19 had not 
caused such damage. Aviva said the policy also covered circumstances where a notifiable 
human disease, which would include COVID-19, had occurred at the insureds premises and 
this had led to a competent authority restricting the use of the premises. But that M had not 
shown that there had been such an occurrence at its premises. Aviva also said that the 
policy covered certain circumstances where the premises had been closed by the police or 
other statutory authority which prevents or hinders use of, or access to, the premises. But 
that Ms premises had not been closed by such a body.
Mrs S complained, saying that the policy wording did not require the occurrence of the 
disease to be at the premises. She also said that the guidance from the NHS and industry 
relevant bodies had been that optical services should be limited to essential or urgent eye 
care. When Aviva did not change its position, she referred Ms complaint to this service. 
Our Investigators opinion
Our Investigator agreed that the core business interruption cover did not apply, as neither 
COVID-19 nor the pandemic generally had caused damage to Ms premises that had led to 
its business being interrupted.
Our Investigator then set out that he considered the proper interpretation of the notifiable 
disease clause required the disease to have occurred at Ms premises. He said that the 
context given by the rest of the clause in which this cover appeared meant that the term 
could not reasonably by understood in the manner Mrs S had suggested. So, he didnt think 
this clause provided cover in the circumstances of Ms claim.
However, he did feel that the prevention of access clause did provide such cover. This 
clause is a composite one, requiring a number of things to happen in a certain order. There 
must be, as far as is relevant to Ms claim, a closure of the premises by the police or other 
statutory authority which prevents or hinders use of, or access to, the premises or which 
causes a reduction in the number of people using the premises. And our Investigator 
considered that each of these requirements had been met in the circumstance of Ms claim. 
The Investigator explained that he felt there were two key questions. Firstly whether other 
statutory authority, as used in this clause, is a body that caused an interruption to Ms 
business. And, secondly, whether the closure had to be distinct from the 
prevention/hindrance of use of or access to the premises.
He explained that he thought the NHS was capable of being considered such an authority 
and that it had issued guidance that had led M to stop providing face-to-face, 
non-emergency care, which he considered to be a discrete part of its business. He also felt 
that, whilst M had likely carried out similar care on a non-NHS basis, and the NHSs 
guidance hadnt prevented that, similar advice had been given by Ms professional bodies. 
And the Investigator did not consider it would be fair or reasonable to apply a distinction 
between NHS and non-NHS care in the circumstances.
Our Investigator also did not consider that there needed to be a separate event that had 
caused the closure to the event that had caused the prevention/hindrance. He felt that a 
closure that had the consequence of preventing/hindering access or use would qualify. He 
also did not consider that the closure had to be physical and thought that the inability of a 
business to carry out a discrete part of its activities would qualify. So, he felt that Ms claim 
should not have been declined and that its complaint should be upheld.
Avivas position
Aviva has set out its position in detail over the course of a number of responses. The 
following is only intended as a summary of its position on the prevention of access term. 
Aviva has said:
The clause, and its sub-clauses, are composite perils with two elements - an event or 
incident leading to a particular consequence (i.e. the prevention or hindrance of 
access to the premises). And that these have to happen in causal sequence.
Not all cases of a prevention of access will involve a closure.
The courts in The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors 
[2021] UKSC 1 and the related judgment in the court at first instance (the FCA test 
case) had not treated closure and prevention of access synonymously.
The prevention of access clause is premises specific. It should be considered as 
providing narrow, localised cover. This is emphasised by the reference in the relevant 
subclause to the closure or sealing off of any right of way.
No consideration had been given to either whether the NHS was a statutory authority 
capable of closing Ms premises or, if it was, whether the instructions it gave to stop 
providing certain services amounted to such a closure.
The context given by the clause meant that the term other statutory authority must 
be of a particular type or have a particular characteristic and be one which is 
empowered to close or seal off the premises.
Ultimately, as Aviva disagreed with the Investigators opinion, this complaint was then 
passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
Having considered the circumstances of the complaint, I came to a different conclusion to that set out by our Investigator. 
I said that the core business interruption cover provided by Ms policy, as well as a number 
of the extensions to this cover, was based on an interruption to the business of the insured 
which has been caused by damage to property. I explained that, whilst I appreciated the 
pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I didnt think COVID-19 caused damage to 
property which has led to an interruption of Ms business.
So, I didnt think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provided cover in the circumstances of Ms claim. And I 
thought Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ms claim under this area of 
cover.
I then went onto consider the two potentially relevant extensions in Ms policy. 
I explained that the Notifiable Disease extension provided cover for losses incurred due to 
the occurrence of COVID-19, but that I considered that occurrence would need to have been 
at the premises of the insured. I confirmed that I was not persuaded by Mrs Ss argument 
that the requirement for the relevant event to have occurred at the premises only related to 
the second part of the relevant subclause. 
I explained that this was because Mrs Ss argument, if successful, would mean that the first 
part of the subclause provided cover for the occurrence of a notifiable disease in any 
location where this led to a competent authority causing the use of the premises to be 
restricted. And that, whilst such a term is not uncommon, this would mean it would not make 
sense for the second part to provide the same cover but only where the disease has been 
caused by food or drink from the premises.
I considered a court would most likely determine that a reasonable person, with the same 
background knowledge Mrs S had in March 2019  the time the policy was entered  would 
interpret the first part of the first subclause of the Notifiable Disease extension in Ms policy 
as requiring the disease to have occurred on Ms premises.
As there is no persuasive evidence that COVID-19, or another relevant disease that led to a 
restriction on the use of Ms premises, occurred on those premises I considered Aviva acted 
appropriately when declining Ms claim. And my provisional decision was to not uphold Ms 
complaint on this point.
I then went on to consider the Prevention of Access and Loss of Attraction extension in Ms 
policy. I said subclause v) of this extension was most relevant to the current claim. This is 
because there has been a hindrance of the use of the premises and this has been as a 
result of guidance from third-parties. This part of the extension reads:
v) closure or sealing off of the Premises or any right of way by the police or other 
statutory authority which
a) prevents or hinders the use of the Premises or access thereto or, where the 
Premises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping centre, 
prevents or hinders the use of the entire complex development or shopping 
centre or access thereto or;
b) causes a reduction in the number of people using the Premises or, where the 
Premises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping centre, 
causes a reduction in the number of people using the same.I explained that this subclause covered a number of potential scenarios, but in the 
circumstances the easiest one for M to be able to demonstrate was whether its premises 
were closed by an other statutory authority which hindered use of the premises. As such, I 
focused my discussion on whether this had happened, but confirmed I had borne in mind the 
other potential scenarios.
I said the subclause requires the elements to happen in a causal sequence. There needs to 
be 1. closure of the premises; 2. by the police or other statutory authority; which 3. hinders 
use of the premises. So, the questions I needed to determine were whether there was a 
hindrance that was caused by a closure of the premises and whether that closure was cause 
by the police or other statutory authority.
I confirmed that opticians and optometrists were not required to close by the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced in March 2020. But that there was guidance 
from the NHS and professional bodies that such businesses should only provide urgent care. 
So, I considered that the questions for me to resolve had become, did the guidance issued 
by the NHS and professional bodies mean that M had to close its premises? And, were 
these bodies the police or other statutory authority?
I said that it seemed likely to me that all areas of the premises would have been used both 
for urgent and non-urgent care without distinction. And that it also seemed likely that there is 
no distinction on where, or generally speaking how, NHS funded and non-NHS care is 
provided.
As such, even though M may not have been able to carry out certain types of activity, it 
didnt seem likely that they were physically unable to use or access any particular areas of 
their premises. I explained why, given the context provided by Ms policy  including the 
construction of the particular clause in this policy  I considered that in relation to Ms 
particular policy it was likely that there needed to be a shutting down of Ms physical 
premises in order for this cover to apply. But that I didnt consider it was likely the premises 
were physically closed as a result of the guidance provided by the NHS and professional 
bodies. 
I went on to consider, in case my conclusions above were not correct, whether either the 
NHS or the professional bodies are the police or other statutory authority for the purposes 
of closing or sealing off Ms premises.
I explained that as this term was not defined in the policy it need to be interpreted as a 
reasonable person with Mrs Ss background knowledge would have understood it at the time 
the policy was taken out, taking into account the context provided by the rest of the policy 
and factual and legal background. I said I thought that the context provided in the clause 
meant that this authority needs to have the power, likely a power provided by statute, to 
close or seal off a premises or relevant property. And that I didnt think the NHS or the 
professional bodies had the power to direct a relevant business to close.
As such, I didnt think Ms premises were forced to close and I also didnt think the NHS or 
professional bodies that had issued guidance relevant to Ms business were the police or 
other statutory authority. So, I didnt consider Avivas decision to decline Ms claim under 
this extension was inappropriate. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I did not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Aviva should have met Ms claim and so I didnt consider Ms complaint 
should be upheld either.I invited both parties to provide me with any further evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. 
Aviva did not have any further comments. Mrs S, on behalf of M, replied saying the country 
as a whole was instructed by the Government to stay indoors and were not allowed to leave 
for anything other than urgent/essential business. So, in effect, this meant M could not 
operate for anything but urgent care. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on M, I wont be upholding its complaint. Largely this is for the same 
reasons as in my provisional decision, as whilst I note Mrs Ss recent comments, these have 
not led me to come to a different conclusion. 
A number of the Government's announcements in March 2020 included an instruction to 
'stay at home', but the requirements for this are most clearly set out by Regulation 6 of the 
Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020. 
Regulation 6 set out the requirement for people to generally stay at home, but it included a 
number of 'reasonable excuses'. Two of these appear potentially relevant. The first is the 
general excuse to obtain basic necessities. The second, and more specifically relevant, is 
(c); "to seek medical assistance, including to access any of the services referred to in 
paragraph 37 or 38 of Schedule 2". Paragraph 37 then specifically lists "opticians" as one of 
the service providers people could access. There is no requirement here that any of the 
assistance sought needed to be urgent. 
As such, I don't think the general requirement to stay at home is one that limited a business 
such as Ms to only providing urgent care. Certainly, this was not a requirement that M close 
its premises. And in the circumstances of this particular complaint, I consider that this is what 
is required in order for M to claim under the Prevention of Access and Loss of Attraction 
extension in Ms policy.
So, largely for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and described above, I do not 
consider there to be any area of cover that means Aviva should have met Ms claim. I know 
this decision will be disappointing for Mrs S, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough 
explanation of why I dont consider this policy offers cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman