DRN-3783216
The complaint
Mrs M complains following a claim against a low-cost whole of life assurance policy sold to 
her mother Mrs S in 1995. The policy was placed in trust shortly after it began, and was set 
to pay its proceeds to the trustees on a claim. Mrs M and Mrs S were trustees for that trust. 
Responsibility for setting up and administering the policy now sits with Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited. In this decision, Ill use Aviva to mean them and their predecessors. 
What happened
Mrs Ms complaint has focussed on the initial explanations about how this policy worked. 
Weve been shown some of the original documents that explained the policy. These show 
the policy had two main parts to it. 
A life assurance policy that would pay a fixed amount when Mrs S died, plus any 
bonus elements that had built up. This was called a with profits whole life 
assurance.
A life assurance policy that would pay a reducing amount if Mrs S died within 
29 years of taking the policy out. This was called a decreasing term assurance. 
The policy documents from the time explained:
reductions in the amount payablefrom the Decreasing Term Assurance are 
offset by bonus additions to the basic Whole Life sum assured. The extent to which 
the reductions are offset depends upon the rate of investment return achieved
An illustration was also given at the time. It calculated what the return from the policy could 
look like after ten years. Three different rates of investment return were used, starting at 5%. 
Mrs M claimed against the policy in 2021, following the death of Mrs S. She was upset to 
find the policy wasnt going to pay out as much as she was expecting. 
Her complaint has followed from that, saying Aviva should have done more to highlight what 
the likely return would be after the decreasing term assurance part of the policy had come to 
an end. She felt the amount the policy put towards the whole life assurance part wasnt ever 
likely to outpace the reductions in the decreasing term assurance. 
Aviva responded, saying that the policys pay out was due to the invested part of it achieving 
less of a return than anticipated when the policy began. They explained how investments 
had been affected by events since 1995. As a result, they didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. One of our investigators has explained why they feel 
the explanations Aviva gave in 1995 were reasonable. They found the policy hadnt given 
any guarantee of its value after the first ten years. And they noted longer forecasts couldnt 
be expected to provide accurate and complete pictures of what would happen in the future. 
Mrs M didnt agree, restating her feelings about the illustration and information Aviva gave in 
1995. With no agreement to resolve the complaint, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mrs Ms disappointment, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
briefly explain why, although my reasoning is as our investigator already explained. 
Looking at the documents from 1995, I can see these were clear about how this policy would 
work. The section Ive mentioned above was clear that part of the life assurance was 
reducing, and its diminishing value would be replaced by an amount determined by the 
performance of an investment. 
Anticipating how an investment will perform in the future is difficult. But the regulator at the 
time had some rules for businesses to follow. Similar rules exist today, and can be found in 
the conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
The rules covering estimating future returns an investment might give said companies were 
to use the percentage growth rates that I can see Aviva used in 1995. Its true the modern 
rules  found in COBS 13, annex 2, paragraph 2.3  uses lower rates. But that reflects that 
the general performance of investments in 2023 is different to what it was in 1995. 
Rules also covered how long estimates should look ahead for open ended life assurance. 
Ten years, or the time it would take for a policy holder to reach 75 years old, was a minimum 
span. Avivas ten-year estimate in 1995 satisfied that requirement for Mrs Ss policy.
As well as satisfying the rules, I find Avivas estimates here were reasonable for this policy. 
An estimate continuing beyond ten years was unlikely to have reflected some of the 
significant factors that affected investments  and world economies  shortly after 2005. And 
the nature of a whole of life assurance policy is that it could end at any time. So I can accept 
it was reasonable for Aviva to stick to the regulators directions on how far ahead to forecast.
With hindsight, I can see that a higher premium for the policy would have allowed more to be 
put to its investments. The level of performance thats been seen would then have achieved 
the objective of covering the decreasing term assurance. But I dont think its fair to expect 
Aviva to have known that before it happened. It was enough that they based the set up of 
the policy on the trends in investment performance that existed up to 1995. 
I can understand how that left Mrs M surprised 26 years later, when the investment part of 
the policy hadnt been able to completely make up for the decreasing term assurance. But I 
agree with Avivas explanation of this in their complaint response. The performance of 
investments when the policy began in 1995 wasnt matched by their performance over the 
26 years that followed. 
The documents from 1995 mentioned that risk enough to allow Mrs S to make an informed 
choice about having the policy. There was clearly an intention the investment would be able 
to match or exceed the reducing cover. But there werent any guarantees it would. And there 
were warnings it would depend on how the investments future panned out. 
Overall, I find Avivas estimates and information for this policy met the rules of the time, and 
were reasonable. The product was set up as they said it would be. And the disappointment Mrs M now feels comes from the investments performance, rather than an error by Aviva. 
My final decision
Given my findings above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M 
as trustees of the S Trust to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman