DRN-4091770
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr P bought a solar panel system the system for his home in 2019. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr P 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr P into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr P signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr P says he was led to believe. So, the investigator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr P disagreed. Through his representative he said: 
That the sale was conducted based on verbal representations and our investigator 
had given no consideration to this. 
The consumer wasnt taken through the sales documents. 
An email account was set up during the sale so Mr P could receive information 
regarding the sale, but Mr P was not computer literate. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps representatives have highlighted concerns over Mr P not being 
computer literate and over his email address only being set up on the day of the sale so he 
could receive information regarding the sale. However, as explained by the investigator, it 
looks like the email address was used by Mr P to receive the information and he signed the 
consumer credit agreement electronically. Additionally, some the sales documents Ive 
specifically referred to below were completed and signed by hand on the day of the sale. So 
overall, Im satisfied that Mr P was provided with the sales documents, and that he wouldve 
seen these at the time of sale.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost of the system, as well as 
referring to the finance that Mr P took to complete the purchase of the system. 
This section was completed by hand and Mr P signed this again by hand on the day of the 
sale. It sets out the cost of the system (£9,675), that Mr P was paying a deposit of 
£4,837.50, that £4,837.50 was still due on completion. It also refers to the 120-month (i.e. 
10-year) loan, via Omni. 
I understand Mr P says that he wanted to pay by cash but was pressured to take out the 
finance. However, there is an option to pay by cash in the contract he signed, so I think its 
likely he would have been aware he could pay by cash. 
On the same day, Mr P also electronically signed the credit agreement which repeated the 
above information and also set out the total amount repayable (£12,341.82), as well as his 
monthly payment of £62.53. Overall, I think it was made clear how much the system cost, 
and that Mr P was aware of and agreed to take finance. Im also satisfied that he was aware 
that his loan term was 10 years, what his monthly and overall cost would have been. 
Mr P also signed an estimated returns document which provided him with a detailed 
breakdown of the likely benefit he would receive from the system. This shows that the total 
estimated year one benefit was £148.74.
I understand Omni says the supplier also sent Mr P a quotation document following the sale 
via email. This also sets out the benefit the system can provide over the 30-year lifetime of 
the system, and I note the year one benefit is higher at £373.75. Mr P, as explained above, 
says he wasnt computer literate and doesnt recall seeing these figures. 
However, the estimated returns document mentioned above is signed by him immediately 
below the estimated year one benefit, so I think at the very least he would have seen this 
figure. And Mr P also told us that the supplier was at his property for several hours and he 
was shown graphs and diagrams showing what benefit he would receive. So, I think its 
more likely that he did discuss the likely benefits he would receive, and, at the very least, the 
estimated returns document is reliable evidence of the facts and figures he was given at the 
time of sale. 
I think its clear that 12 payments of £62.53 is significantly more than £148.74. Additionally, 
to repay a loan for £4,837.50 over 10 years, I think its apparent (without the need to do any 
calculations) that Mr P would need around £483.75 per year to meet the annual payments 
on the loan (and this is without even including any interest or charges). And both estimated 
benefit figures are significantly less than this.
Overall, I think its more likely that it would have been clear to him that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding in the way he says he was told they would be. If Mr P had been 
told something different, on being asked to sign the estimated returns document, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr Ps 
understanding, at that time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ps testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
I understand Mr P also raised concerns that Omni may not have done sufficient credit 
checks or checked his financial outgoings before granting him the loan. As explained by 
Omni, it said it recorded Mr Ps employment and income details and ran a credit check. It 
also seems like Mr P maintained his monthly payments before paying off the loan early. So, I 
dont think theres any evidence the loan wasnt affordable. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Omni has confirmed that it 
paid no commission to the supplier and, considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr P 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Omni acted unfairly by declining his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman