DRN-4223047
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited 
(Lighthouse) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme with British Steel to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint and said Lighthouse should pay compensation. 
Both Mr M and Lighthouse disagreed with the investigators conclusions about the 
assumptions Lighthouse should use for calculating compensation. The complaint was then 
passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold the complaint and direct 
Lighthouse to put things right based on a retirement age of 65 and based on the benefits 
available to Mr M through the BSPS2. A copy of the background to the complaint, and my 
provisional findings, are below in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his pension, so he contacted Lighthouse for advice. In October 2016 Mr M met with 
Lighthouse and it completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances 
and objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr M was 56; he was living with his 
partner; he had no children; he owned his own home, which had an outstanding mortgage 
on it of around £47,000; he wanted to use his tax-free cash to pay off 20% of his mortgage 
each year for the next three years of his mortgage tie-in; and he wanted to retire at age 60 
with an income of £1,500 a month. Lighthouse also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms 
attitude to risk, which it deemed high-medium.
On 3 November 2016, Lighthouse advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a range of funds, which overall it 
deemed matched Mr Ms attitude to risk.
In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to provide 
Mr M with a higher tax-free cash lump sum than the BSPS would provide; provide better 
death benefits; provide greater control; and provide flexibility  the ability to control his 
income and enjoy more of it in the early years of retirement.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and shortly after around £368,000 was transferred to 
his new personal pension. Not long after the transfer, in December 2016 Mr M took a tax- 
free cash lump sum from his pension of around £30,000.
Mr M complained to Lighthouse, via a representative in 2020 about the suitability of the 
advice he received. Lighthouse upheld the complaint  it said it couldnt be satisfied the 
advice was suitable - and it said it would make an offer of compensation. At this point Mr M 
referred his complaint to our service.
In the meantime, Lighthouse appointed a third-party specialist firm to carry out a review of 
certain DB transfers it advised on as instructed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
And in 2021 the third party wrote to Mr M to say that it had found the advice he received was 
unsuitable and it made an offer of compensation of around £69,000, later amended to 
around £89,000. The letter said the offer was in line with the FCAs guidance on calculating 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers and it was based on Mr Ms retirement age of 56 
when he accessed his tax-free cash.
Mr M declined the offer. He said the offer wasnt fair because the calculation was based on a 
flawed assumption as to when he wouldve accessed his pension benefits had he been 
properly advised to remain in the BSPS.
One of our investigators looked at all of this and in summary they said that because there 
was broad agreement that the advice was unsuitable, their focus was on the retirement age 
redress assumptions Lighthouse has used. They disagreed that 56 was a fair reflection of 
Mr Ms retirement intentions. They said Mr M only accessed his tax-free cash because the 
transfer advice gave him the opportunity to do so. They didnt think Mr M had an immediate 
need to access any of his pension savings or fully retire. They said that, while Mr M told us 
he was still working, because the paperwork from the time recorded that it was Mr Ms 
intention to retire at 60, this is the retirement date Lighthouse should use in calculating 
redress. And they said it is the benefits available through the PPF that Lighthouse should 
use for comparison purposes.
Mr M, through his representative disagreed. In summary he said that he has delayed 
accessing his pension benefits and continues to work which shows that his retirement plans 
were not certain at the time. He said there is no evidence to suggest he wouldve accessed 
his scheme pension early. Mr M says he accepts he intended to retire early at the time of the 
advice, but it was the advisers responsibility to determine if this was realistic. He says he 
only accessed his tax-free cash because the adviser encouraged it. Mr M says that, because 
he has not yet retired and has no immediate plans to do so, his losses should be calculated 
on the basis that he ought to have been advised to join the BSPS2 and that his retirement 
date should be assumed to be the schemes normal retirement age of 65.
Lighthouse also disagreed with the investigators conclusions. 
In summary they said the redress calculation methodology was designed following 
collaboration with the FCA to ensure consistency and compliance with the FCAs redress 
guidance. It said it believed that a complaint about the redress methodology employed falls 
outside of our jurisdiction. But it said it believes the redress offer is fair in light of Mr Ms 
circumstances. It said the investigator had classified Mr Ms case as a prospective loss case 
when in fact it should be classed as an actual loss case.It said this is because Mr M accessed his benefits  his tax-free cash  at age 56, so the 
redress methodology treats this date as the date on which Mr M wouldve taken his 
retirement benefits from the BSPS.
It went to explain that it believes Mr Ms decision to transfer his pension and his decision to 
take a cash lump sum are two separate and distinct events  Mr Ms decision to access his 
pension when he did should not be conflated with the suitability of the transfer advice (which 
it found to be unsuitable.) It said Mr M has clearly benefitted from accessing his tax-free 
cash and it would be very complex to try and place an accurate value on this in calculating 
redress. It said it believes the investigators conclusion about how redress should be 
calculated goes against relevant legal requirements and standards and asks why it is 
appropriate for the Financial Ombudsman Service to depart from these in this case.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the matter was passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouse's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive provisionally decided to 
uphold the complaint and I intend to direct Lighthouse to put things right based on a 
retirement age of 65. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Lighthouse should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests.
I firstly want to address Lighthouses point about this service not being able to consider the 
redress methodology employed by Lighthouse and its belief that it falls outside of our 
jurisdiction. To clarify  Mr Ms complaint brought to us and the one Im addressing is about 
the unsuitable advice Mr M says he received to transfer out of the BSPS. And as part of my 
consideration of this, if I deem things didnt happen as they should have and I think Mr M has 
lost out as a result, it is appropriate for me, and within my powers, to determine what fair 
compensation should be to put things right. And this is what I will address in this decision.
Suitability of Lighthouses advice
There appears to be broad agreement between Lighthouse and the third-party business 
which carried out the transfer advice review on its behalf, that the advice Mr M received to 
transfer his pension was unsuitable. But for the sake of completeness, taking into account all 
of the relevant considerations in this case and the evidence presented, ultimately I dont 
think the advice given to Mr M to transfer the benefits from his DB scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement was suitable.
In summary, this is because Mr M was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income. By transferring, given the quoted critical yields required to match Mr Ms DB scheme 
benefits (16.93% at age 65 and 30.22% at age 60) Mr M was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits as a result of transferring and investing in line with his stated high-  
medium attitude to risk. In my view, there were also no other particular or compelling 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. In my view Mr H did not require 
flexibility and a need to access his tax-free cash early to repay, or part repay, his mortgage 
that was affordable (and would likely continue to be so) and on a relatively low fixed interest 
rate. And I think the potential for higher or different death benefits wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So I think Lighthouse shouldve advised Mr M to remain in the BSPS.
I will also add that, I dont think Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring anyway against 
Lighthouses advice. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr M had the requisite skill, 
knowledge or confidence to go against the advice he was given. I think Mr M relied solely on 
the advice Lighthouse provided. So I think if hed been told why it wasnt in his best interests 
to transfer and Lighthouse had explained that he could likely meet all of his objectives 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think 
Mr M wouldve accepted and followed that advice  I dont think hed have insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against advice.
Does Lighthouses redress offer fairly compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice?
The crux of the disagreement in this case is about the redress  specifically at what age it is 
assumed Mr M wouldve taken the benefits from the DB scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. Lighthouse has based its offer on a retirement age of 56 because this is when Mr M 
took his tax-free cash following the transfer. 
It says this represents the actual loss because this is when it believes Mr M wouldve 
accessed his benefits had he remained in the DB scheme.Mr M says that he only took his tax-free cash on the encouragement of the adviser and given 
he is still working and has no plans to retire, the calculation should be based on his normal 
scheme retirement age of 65.
Ill explain why I disagree with the assumption Lighthouse has used and why I dont think it is 
a fair in the circumstances.
For context, Im mindful of and have taken into account the latest rules and guidance for 
firms set out in DISP App 4.3.16R. This says that a firm must: presume that a consumer 
would have taken pension benefits from their defined benefit occupational pension scheme 
at their normal retirement age.
However, the provisions of DISP App 4.3.17R says the above won't apply: where the 
evidence shows that it is more likely than not that the consumer or a beneficiary would have 
taken benefits from their defined benefit occupational pension scheme on an alternative 
date.
It gives examples of such evidence including:
Where the consumer has taken an annuity.
The consumer wouldve taken early retirement benefits from their DB scheme.
The firm has written confirmation that the consumer considers themselves to be 
retired.
I understand Mr M is still working, so he hasn't retired. And he hasn't taken an annuity. Im 
aware Mr M took a cash lump sum from his pension in December 2016 shortly after the 
transfer completed. But I dont think that means he would have more likely than not have 
taken his benefits from the DB scheme at that age had suitable advice been given and hed 
remained in the scheme.
Lighthouse has argued that Mr M deciding to take a cash lump sum is a separate and 
distinct event from the advice to transfer out of the BSPS. But I think the two are intrinsically 
linked  I think Mr Ms actions were ultimately influenced by the unsuitable advice. 
Lighthouse documented at the time, and so understood, that Mr M wanted to access part of 
his tax-free cash to pay off some of his mortgage. And one of the documented reasons 
Lighthouse recommended the transfer was to enable Mr M to facilitate this. The suitability 
report said transferring would ensure that Mr M was able to access a lump sum now to 
achieve things and defer taking income benefits, which he couldnt otherwise do.
Ive explained above that I dont think it was necessary for Mr M to access his pension 
benefits early to repay his mortgage. And Ive said that if Lighthouse had clearly explained to 
Mr M why it wasnt in his best interests to access his tax-free cash early to reduce his 
mortgage, I think he wouldve followed that advice. So it follows that I dont think Mr M 
wouldve accessed his benefits at age 56 had things happened as they should have and 
hed been advised to stay in the DB scheme.
Furthermore, one of the fundamental differences between DB schemes and most personal 
pensions is that, if a member wanted to take any benefits from a DB scheme, they would 
need to take them at the same time. So, if Mr M wanted to take a cash lump sum at 56 from 
the DB scheme, hed also have to take a regular income from it at the same time. 
And, if taken early, that income would have been reduced, quite significantly, compared to 
what he could receive at age 65. So I think its unlikely Mr H would have taken a tax-free lump sum payment at age 56 from the BSPS had he been advised to remain in the scheme. 
Mr M was still working and hadn't retired. So he didnt need another regular income at that 
time. And taking one would have made him worse off in retirement.
In contrast the rules concerning Mr Ms personal pension are different. Mr M was able to 
take a cash lump sum and defer taking an income until later on  he didnt have to draw any 
income from it at the same time. I think Mr M simply took advantage of the different rules 
applying to his personal pension and drew a tax-free payment from it. But as Lighthouse said 
in its suitability report, that isn't something he couldve done had he remained in the BSPS. 
As I said above, Mr M would also have had to take a reduced pension income.
So I think its unlikely Mr M wouldve taken the same course of action if hed been given 
suitable advice and remained in the BSPS. So I dont think it was fair for Lighthouse to 
determine that Mr M would have likely taken his retirement benefits from the DB scheme at 
age 56.
I also disagree with the investigator that Mr M wouldve most likely accessed his DB scheme 
benefits at age 60. Aside what I said above, I accept that the advice paperwork recorded that 
it was Mr Ms objective or intention to retire at 60. And Mr M has said himself that this was 
his intention. But Im not persuaded that Mr M had concrete plans to retire at 60.
As Ive already explained, any plan Mr M might have had appears to have been based 
around gaining early access to his tax-free cash to repay his mortgage over time, which as 
Ive also said, Lighthouse shouldve advised Mr M against because it wasnt in his best 
interests. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr M had a considered plan to retire early 
from his DB scheme. Mr M is now 62. Hes told us that following a short sabbatical from work 
in 2020, he returned on a part-time basis and on an income that supports his lifestyle. Mr M 
continues to work and says he has no plans for retirement. As this is what actually 
happened, I think it is fair to be led by this.
So, taking everything into account, I think it is fair to assume in this case that if suitable 
advice had been given, Mr M would most likely access his pension benefits at the DB 
schemes normal retirement age of 65.
I can see the investigator also said that the redress calculation should take into account the 
benefits available to Mr M through the PPF because they said Mr M wouldve most likely 
remained in the BSPS and moved with the scheme to the PPF with suitable advice. But 
given what Ive said above about Mr Ms retirement plans not being set in stone, I don't think 
that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by 
the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. Im mindful too that Mr M was concerned about the potential loss of 
benefits if the scheme moved to the PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if his needs demanded 
it. In addition, the annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2.
So, if things had happened as they should have, I think Mr M wouldve remained in the 
BSPS and then likely opted to join the BSPS2 following the time to choose exercise.
In light of the above, I think Lighthouse should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, 
in line with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer 
advice. And for the reasons above, this should be based on Mr M taking benefits from the BSPS2 at 
age 65.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if suitable advice had been given.
I intend to direct Lighthouse to undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
If Lighthouse does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision 
department of the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS 
calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
     - their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
     - a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment   
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Mr M accepted the findings in my provisional decision. He also asked me to consider making 
an award for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice has caused. Mr M 
explained the impact the long-drawn-out process of getting compensation for the unsuitable 
advice has had on his health.
Lighthouse said that while it disagrees with my provisional decision, it said it was willing to 
make an offer of compensation to resolve things without the need for a final decision. It said 
it would start the process of calculating the settlement offer and would take the necessary 
steps as quickly as possible. It asked that the Financial Ombudsman Service hold off 
progressing matters until it has attempted settlement with Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im mindful that Lighthouse has said it is prepared to make an offer of 
settlement to Mr M in line with the instructions I set out in my provisional decision and has 
asked me to consider not progressing things to a final decision, in the circumstances I think it 
is appropriate, fair and in the interests of both parties for me to issue a final decision. In my 
view, issuing a final decision will give certainty and bring finality to both parties to this 
dispute.
Mr M has asked me to consider making an award for distress and inconvenience to reflect 
the impact the unsuitable advice has had on him. Ive thought carefully about what Mr M has 
said  Id already considered whether an award for distress and inconvenience was 
warranted when issuing my provisional decision. And having done so, Im not persuaded that 
an award is appropriate or fair in this case. Mr M has told us that he continues to work and 
says he has no plans for retirement. And while I understand Mr Ms feelings about how long 
the whole process has taken, Im satisfied Mr M will be fairly compensated by the steps Ive 
said Lighthouse should take to put things right.
So, because neither party has persuaded me to change my mind, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion and for the same reasons as set out in my provision decision.
I uphold this complaint and direct Lighthouse to put things right. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and then opted to join the 
BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. For clarity, and as set out in my findings above, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no 
plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65 as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman