DRN-1639522
 
The complaint
Miss R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) mis-sold her a regular payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss R applied for a credit card by post in June 2001. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Rs complaint should be upheld because she thought Miss 
R wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit. 
Miss R disagrees so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint and will explain why.
The PPI was applied for by post when Miss R completed an application form for a credit 
card. Barclaycard has given us a copy of the application form Miss R completed. 
I can see that theres a part of the application form that deals with PPI. The form gives the 
option to select PPI and the option to not have it. I can see on Miss Rs application form a 
tick has been placed next to the option to have it. 
So I think because Miss R selected to take PPI with a tick she understood she had a choice 
in taking the policy and wanted the cover. If Miss R didnt want to take out PPI she couldve 
ticked next to the option declining the policy. Miss R also signed on the form agreeing to the 
contents. So i think Miss R was aware there was a choice to have PPI.
As i have already mentioned, PPI was taken out through the post, so I dont think 
Barclaycard advised Miss R to take PPI. What this means is that Barclaycard didnt 
recommend PPI to Miss R, it just gave her information about PPI. This information needed to 
be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Barclaycard did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Barclaycard did give all the information Miss R needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy. I say this because at the time of sale 
from what we know about Barclaycard policies:Miss R was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Miss R says she was entitled to 6 months full and 6 months 
half sick pay. But I think the policy wouldve helped her in an extended time of need, 
so I dont think her circumstances at the time wouldve put her off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Miss R. She could cancel 
the policy if she no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Miss R on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her. Which 
means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclaycard expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss R 
about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Miss R, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium to Miss R - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman