DRN-3130344
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fairly refunded the 
premiums they paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 6 March 2020, Mrs C and Mr M took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to 
cover trips taken within Europe of up to 17 days. The policy was provided by Great Lakes 
and cover started on the date it was purchased and ran until 5 March 2021. 
Mrs C and Mr M paid a total of £256.46 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a 
number of declared medical conditions.
Because of the global pandemic, Mrs C and Mr M said they werent able to travel as theyd 
intended. And on 14 January 2021, they contacted Great Lakes to request a policy premium 
refund. Great Lakes informed them that it was looking at how to deal with refund requests as 
an insurer and would contact Mrs C and Mr M once a decision had been made. Mrs C and 
Mr H didnt cancel their policy. 
Following this telephone discussion, Mrs C and Mr M received correspondence from Great 
Lakes informing them that no refund was due. They contacted Great Lakes on 26 January to 
query this and they subsequently complained about how their request for a refund had been 
dealt with.
Great Lakes investigated Mrs C and Mr Ms complaint and, on 19 February 2021, it issued 
its final response. In its response, Great Lakes stated that Mrs C and Mr M werent entitled 
to a full premium refund as they hadnt cancelled their policy within 14 days of taking it out. It 
also stated that because of the length of time theyd been on cover they werent entitled a 
partial refund either.
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint, Mrs C and Mr M referred 
their complaint to our service where an investigator looked into the matter. 
Our investigator empathised with Mrs C and Mr M and acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 6 March 2020 and the 
policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they were persuaded that Great Lakes response was fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs C and Mr M didnt 
and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Cover under Mrs C and Mr Ms policy commenced on 6 March 2020, which is confirmed by 
the insurance documentation they received. Im satisfied Mrs C and Mr M were reasonably 
made aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of the cancellation 
terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of the 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of the premium 
will be available.
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of your policy.
The policy wasnt cancelled within the cooling off period and so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive 
outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any 
refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs C and Mr Ms cooling-off period ended on 20 March 2020. But Mrs C and 
Mr M didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss their policy until 14 January 2021  and at this 
point they requested a refund. They didnt request the cancellation of their policy at any time. 
And, even if they had done on 14 January 2021, this would have been outside the cooling off 
period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement under the relevant industry rules and 
guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for cancellation 
outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have prevented Mrs C and Mr M 
from travelling as theyd have liked or intended and that this was outside of their control. So, 
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from 
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs C and Mr Ms contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs C and Mr Ms 
contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 6 March 2020.
Mrs C and Mr M were insured from 6 March 2020 for travelling on any number of trips within 
Europe of up to 17 days duration which they may have taken until the policy expired. 
Theyve said they didnt have the opportunity of travelling due to the pandemic. But, because 
of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how 
many such trips a policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs C and Mr M for cancellation of any holidays which 
they may have had booked and were due to take from 6 March 2020 until 5 March 2021. So, 
they would have been covered if they had had to cancel any number of holidays because of 
any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, them falling ill with their 
declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mrs C and Mr M making a successful cancellation claim 
for any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, 
from 6 March 2020 until 5 March 2021. And its a fundamental principle of insurance law 
that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  
the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mrs C and Mr Ms cancellation 
rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the risk it 
covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs C and Mr Ms contacted Great 
Lakes on 14 January 2021 to request a premium refund. But they didnt cancel their policy. 
By the time Mrs C and Mr M contacted Great lakes to request a refund, there was only 151 
days left to run on the policy before it expired. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs C have said they should receive a full refund of the premium 
because they havent been able to use their policy. They think the 15% refund theyve been 
offered is unfair. But I think Great Lakes has acted reasonably here because its treated the 
date Mr and Mrs C first contacted it in the same way it would have done had they requested 
the cancellation of their policy at that time.
If Mr and Mrs C had requested that Great Lakes cancel their policy on 1 March 2021, theyd 
have been on cover for around 314 days. Great Lakes has said that, in its claims 
experience, it receives varying percentages of claims across different months of an annual 
multi-trip travel insurance policy. This means that the risk of a claim is not spread evenly 
across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated that there was a 
material unevenness in the spread of risk throughout the term of this annual insurance 
policy. Im persuaded that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mrs C and Mr M unfairly or any 
differently to other customers in similar circumstances. And I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to direct Great Lakes to offer a refund in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
Given that Mrs C and Mr M didnt cancel their policy, and because Great Lakes had been on 
risk for over 300 days before they contacted it to discuss their refund request, I dont think 
its unreasonable or unfair for it to decline to refund Mrs C and Mr M any of the premiums 
they paid. So, Im not going to uphold this complaint or direct Great Lakes to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman