DRN-3664057
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Pi Financial Ltd to transfer the benefits from his
defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension
(SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial
loss.
What happened
Mr C approached Pi Financial in August 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs.
Pi Financial completed a fact-find and a pension transfer analysis application to gather
information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. Pi Financial also carried out an
assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be cautious, later described as
low medium and further described as medium. Ill come back to this later on.
In November 2017 Pi Financial advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and
invest the proceeds with a third-party Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) in a balanced
portfolio. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
To provide access to a lump sum to pay off Mr Cs mortgage, debts and go on
holiday.
To provide greater flexibility as Mr C didnt expect to need an immediate income from
his pension.
To provide greater death benefits for his spouse.
Mr C accepted the recommendation and the transfer duly went ahead. Shortly after the
transfer and after Mr C took his full tax-free cash entitlement the proceeds were invested in a
different investment portfolio from that recommended, which Pi Financial says was the result
of advice Mr C received from a different business. Ill come back to this later on.
In 2021 Mr C, via a representative complained to Pi Financial about the suitability of the
transfer advice. In summary he said that the transfer wasnt suitable given his low attitude to
risk and because it wasnt likely to benefit him. He said hes suffered significant losses and
the transfer only benefitted the adviser.
Pi Financial didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary it said the recommendation to
transfer was suitable and as was the recommended investment portfolio which was in line
with Mr Cs attitude to risk and which wouldve achieved Mr Cs stated objectives. 
It said a complaint wouldnt have arisen but for the intervention of the other business in 
redirecting Mr Cs pension monies into a different investment, which is the cause of the loss 
hes incurred.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required
Pi Financial to pay compensation. In summary they said that given the critical yield or growth
rate required to match Mr Cs existing scheme benefits, along with Mr Cs attitude to risk,
they didnt think the transfer was financially viable  they thought Mr C would likely be worse
off as a result. They said they didnt think Mr C had a real need to repay his mortgage at the
time using his tax-free cash. And because Mr C also took out more than he needed, they
said that risked the lost benefits being made up through investment. Overall they didnt think
the transfer was suitable. In terms of putting things right, they said they didnt need to
consider the suitability of the investment or what happened afterwards because the transfer
shouldnt have happened with suitable advice.
Pi Financial disagreed. In summary it said the investigator had failed to consider the role
played by the other business, which re-directed Mr Ks pension funds away from the
recommended investment strategy, which was in line with his attitude to risk into something
different. It said the losses stem from the poor performance and excessive charges of the
investment recommended by the other business. It said the line of causation was therefore
broken and so isnt fair to apportion 100% of the blame and redress on Pi Financial.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to
me to make a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision of July 2022 in which I said that in intended to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I also expanded on the reasons 
why I thought in the circumstances it was fair for Pi Financial to compensate Mr C for the 
losses he suffered by transferring out of his DB scheme.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision.
Pi Financial disagreed. In summary it said it was neither fair nor reasonable to attribute 
100% of the blame and losses on Pi Financial when the cause of the loss was the 
investment advice given by another business. It said it disagreed with my view that 
compensation should be based on Mr C retiring at his normal retirement age of 65. It said Mr 
C withdrew benefits at age 60 and he achieved his objectives  so compensation should be 
based on a retirement age of 60. Finally in support of its argument that it shouldnt be held 
liable for losses after Mr Cs funds were moved to those recommended by the other 
business, it referred to Section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) which says that a Principal cannot be held liable for the acts of an Appointed 
Representative for which the Principal has not accepted responsibility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pi Financial's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pi Financial 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
In this case, the critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 65 was 13.57% if he
took a full pension. I cant see that a figure was produced for the more likely scenario of Mr C
taking his tax-free cash entitlement and a reduced pension  but I think it was likely to still be
in excess of 10%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to, was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and
was 3.1% per year for five years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs
recorded attitude to risk in the suitability report as medium and the term to retirement.
In my view there would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the
scheme. But here, the critical yield was 13.57%. 
And even on the assumption that the critical yield figure would have been slightly lower 
based on the more likely option of Mr C taking his full entitlement to tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension, both figures were still likely significantly higher than the regulators middle 
rate and higher than the upper projection rate. The 13.57% figure was also more than four 
times higher than the discount rate.
And while I have concerns about how Pi Financial appears to have talked up or inflated Mr
Cs attitude to risk  as I referred to in the background section above, the classificationchanged from cautious, to low medium to medium - even if I thought this was the level of
risk Mr C was prepared to take with his pension (which for the avoidance of doubt I do not 
because I think at best he was low medium ) I think it was clear he was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than his DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
Because the required sustained growth rate was significantly higher than the discount rate, I
think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr Cs attitude to risk. To have come
close to achieving the level of growth required, in my view would have required Mr C to take
significant investment risk, which was greater than his recorded appetite and substantially
higher risk than I think he was truly prepared to take. And even then I think its more likely
than not that Mr C would have been worse off financially at retirement if he transferred out.
I think the term to retirement was also a limiting factor here.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests
because I think it was clear that he would be worse of financially if he did so. And for this
reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer was suitable. Interestingly I can see that the
adviser appears to have arrived at the same conclusion as me at the time of the advice. I
say this because looking at the suitability report I can see they said: ...The critical yield
needed to match your existing benefits at normal retirement age 65 is 13.57%... This, in my
opinion...will not be achievable. And: Therefore, based on these rates I recommend that 
you do not transfer your benefits from [your DB scheme.]
But they went on to recommend the transfer anyway because of Mr Cs objectives of wanting
to pay off his mortgage, debts and go on holiday; have flexible access to income; and secure
lump sum death benefits for his wife.
I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice and
there might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable despite providing
overall lower benefits. This appears to be what the adviser believed - so Ive considered
these below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and income needs
Mr Cs primary objective and the main reason for the recommendation to transfer out of his
DB scheme was to gain access to a cash lump sum to enable him to repay his mortgage,
other debts and go on holiday.
But I dont think this was a suitable reason to recommend the transfer. I say this firstly
because Im not persuaded that Mr C had a real need to repay his mortgage at this
stage. Just because Mr C thought it was a good idea didnt mean that Pi Financial had to
execute what he thought he needed  it was Pi Financials role to determine what was
suitable and in Mr Cs best interests.
According to the fact-find completed by the adviser Mr Cs monthly mortgage payment was
£171 a month. Its also recorded that Mr C had a surplus monthly income of more than £700
a month because his wife covered the remaining monthly expenditure. 
So the evidence shows that Mr Cs mortgage payment was clearly affordable  theres no 
evidence of financial hardship, concerns about falling into arrears or general budgetary 
pressures. It strikes me that, given its recorded that Mr C intended to continue working and 
theres nothing to indicate his income was going to change, he couldve continued to service 
his mortgage from his earned income.
The adviser didnt record any other important details about Mr Cs mortgage  for example
they didnt know the outstanding balance, the remaining term, the repayment basis, or theinterest rate. The adviser simply put a question mark against this on the fact-find. Without
this information I cant see how the adviser could reasonably be in a position to conclude
how much money Mr C needed, or crucially conclude that it was suitable and in Mr Cs best
interests to access his pension early to repay his mortgage. Mr C still had around six years
to retirement - so its possible that if Mr Cs mortgage was on a repayment basis it wouldve
been repaid in full, or thereabouts, at the point he intended to retire at 65 anyway. But if 
there was a small balance remaining at this point, or if the mortgage was on an interest only 
basis, Mr C couldve used his tax-free cash from his DB scheme at his normal retirement 
age to repay his mortgage.
Furthermore, because Mr C had a not insignificant surplus monthly income, I think the
adviser couldve explored with Mr C the possibility of him using some, if not all of this surplus
to make overpayments to his mortgage. In my view most lenders around the time in question
wouldve allowed this even if the mortgage was subject to a fixed rate.
Overall I think greater consideration and emphasis on this being a solution to meet Mr Cs
objective should have been made by Pi Financial before it went ahead and recommended he
make an irreversible decision to transfer his DB scheme to a personal arrangement to
achieve things.
The advice paperwork also refers to Mr C wanting to pay off other debts. But theres no other 
debts recorded on the fact-find and Mr C told us he didnt have any other debt  just his 
mortgage. So its not clear why the adviser recorded this.
The other reason for Mr C wanting access to a lump sum was to go on holiday. But again the
adviser didnt establish how much Mr C needed to achieve this. Given Mr C told us his
outstanding mortgage was around £15,000, did Mr C really intend on spending the
remaining £15,000 of his tax-free cash entitlement on a holiday? Even if he did, I cant see
the adviser considered the reasonable alternative of Mr C borrowing the money to achieve
things. As I said above, Mr C had surplus monthly income  so it appears this was a viable
option. I think more consideration shouldve be given to how much Mr C needed and the
alternatives before recommending he transfer out of his DB pension scheme to achieve
things.
Turning to Mr Cs income needs  the adviser recorded that Mr Cs retirement income need
was around £300 a month with his wife covering their remaining expenditure. They go on to
say that once Mr C was in receipt of his state pension at 66, his DB scheme pension would
be surplus to his needs.
I think the advisers assessment of Mr Cs future retirement income need was unrealistic. Not
only does £300 a month seem low in any event, the assessed need appears to be 
contingent on Mr Cs wife continuing to take care of their other household expenditure. And
while Mr Cs wifes income was apparently sufficient to achieve this while she was working,
the adviser didnt know anything about Mr Cs wifes pension provision to know whether she
could reasonably maintain this when she stopped working. I think it is highly unlikely that Mr
Cs wifes pension income would equal that of her earned income. 
So I think that, given the typical amount of money a retired couple would need to maintain a 
reasonable standard of living, Mr C would most likely be reliant on his DB scheme pension to 
help meet his retirement income needs.
More generally I cant see Mr C had a strong need for variable income throughout his
retirement. Indeed based on the advisers assessment, his need would remain static. Overall
Im not persuaded flexibility of income was a real objective  I think it was simply a
consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement to meet Mr Cs need for accessto cash.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension arrangement was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority
here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pi Financial explored to
what extent Mr C was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher
death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C
was married, so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to
his wife if Mr C predeceased her. I dont think Pi Financial made the value of this benefit
clear enough to Mr C. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I can see from the suitability letter that Pi Financial considered the option of a whole of life
insurance contract to provide death benefits. It says here that this was discounted because it
said that death benefits werent the main driver for the transfer. Yet, this was one of the three
reasons why Pi Financial recommended Mr C go ahead and transfer despite the financial
unviability of the transfer. But I dont think Pi Financial shouldve encouraged Mr C to
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security
in retirement.
Summary
I dont doubt that the immediate availability of tax-free cash, flexibility and the potential for
better death benefits on offer through a personal pension arrangement would have sounded
like attractive features to Mr C. But Pi Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might
have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr C needed and
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income to meet one objective that wasnt necessary to
satisfy immediately and which could reasonably be achieved in a different way over time
and/or by remaining in his DB scheme and taking benefits at his normal retirement age. And
another objective that I think could likely be achieved by alternative means such as
borrowing the money. And this wouldve been far preferable to Mr C in my view than giving
up his only guaranteed retirement income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no compelling reasons which would
justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think Pi Financial shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether, if things had happened as they should have, Mr C wouldve
likely gone ahead anyway, against Pi Financials advice.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on transferring out
of his DB scheme and gone ahead in any event. I say this because Mr C was not in my view
an experienced investor who possessed the requisite knowledge, skill or confidence to takean investment decision to go against the professional advice he was given and was paying 
for. So I think he relied solely on the advice he sought and was given. At the time this 
pension was the primary source of Mr Cs guaranteed future retirement provision. So, if Pi 
Financial had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, and that he could meet his objectives in other ways 
and not risk his guaranteed pension to do so immediately, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. I think, more likely than not Mr C wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Pi Financial should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice,
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Pi Financials responsibility for the loss
Pi Financial has continued to argue that it shouldnt be held solely responsible for Mr Cs 
losses and have to calculate redress using the value of an investment it says it didnt 
recommend. It says it recommended a suitable investment strategy for Mr Cs pension fund, 
which would have met his objectives. It says Mr Cs losses stem from what the alternative
investment strategy, which was the result of advice Mr C received from another business
before his pension monies were invested as Pi Financial intended. It says the line of
causation has been broken. Ive thought about this carefully.
How Mr C came to be involved with both Pi Financial and the other party for this transaction
isnt entirely clear. Pi Financial says that Mr C was already a client of the other party and it
was they who introduced him to Pi Financial to provide the transfer advice because they held 
the necessary permissions to do so. Mr C hasnt been able to shed much light on things - he
says he cant remember how he got introduced to Pi Financial and remembers that his first
dealings with the other party were after Pi Financials transfer advice. Mr C has provided a
letter he received from the other party, which says that both the advice to transfer and invest
in the alternative investment strategy was given by Pi Financial.
Its not disputed that there are two parties involved here  precisely to what extent as I say
isnt clear. Ive considered that both Pi Financial and the other party were regulated, had
their own regulatory obligations and both have possibly contributed to Mr Cs losses. But I
can only consider the complaint in front of me, which is against Pi Financial. And I think its
fair in the circumstances that they compensate Mr C for his losses in full. I say this because
Im satisfied that it was Pi Financial who provided the unsuitable advice to Mr C to transfer
out of his DB pension scheme. And I consider this is the important factor here. As I
explained above, without Pi Financials unsuitable advice Mr C most likely would have
remained in his DB scheme. So it follows that he wouldnt have ended up in a SIPP or been
exposed to any risky investments as he has been.
It is my view that the losses Mr C suffered in his SIPP could have been fully avoided if Pi
Financial had given suitable advice  so I consider it fair and reasonable in the
circumstances that they should compensate Mr C for any losses he suffered by transferring
out of his DB scheme.
Pi Financial has referred to a section in FSMA  39(3) - which provides that a Principal 
cannot be held responsible for the acts of an Appointed Representative for which it hasnt 
accepted responsibility. But I dont think this is relevant here  the other business involved 
wasnt an Appointed Representative of Pi Financial. As I said above both parties were 
individually regulated and had their own regulatory obligations. So this doesnt change my 
decision.Ultimately, if Pi Financial believes that the other parties actions have contributed to these 
losses, they are of course free to pursue this directly with them  but only after having paid 
Mr C in full.
Finally Pi Financial has said that, because Mr C took his benefits at age 60 and met his 
objectives, redress should be based on Mr C retiring and taking benefits at 60 and not 65. 
But as I said above, Pi Financials role wasnt simply to transact what Mr C thought he 
wanted. Its role was to act in Mr Cs best interests and give him suitable advice. Im satisfied 
suitable advice was for Mr C to remain in his DB scheme as Ive outlined above. So if things 
had happened as they should have and Pi Financial had provided suitable advice to Mr C to 
remain in his DB scheme explaining how he could meet his objectives by still remaining in 
his scheme, I think, more likely than not, he wouldve taken his benefits at his schemes 
normal retirement age of 65. So this should be the basis of the redress calculation.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mr C didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt 
want to wait for any new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pi Financials unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Pi Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, and as I outlined above  Mr C could access the benefits from his pension 
scheme at 65. So, if Pi Financial had provided suitable advice that Mr C should remain in his DB scheme, I think more likely than not Mr C wouldve taken his benefits at the schemes 
normal retirement age of 65. And this is the assumption Pi Financial should base the 
compensation on.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Pi Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Pi Financial receives 
notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pi Financial to pay 
Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
As Ive said, my aim is to return Mr C to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions 
of Pi Financial. This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be 
readily sold on the open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the 
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Pi Financial should agree an amount with the SIPP provider 
as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. 
If Pi Financial is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include 
anything Pi Financial has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Pi Financial may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Pi Financial will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Pi Financial asks 
Mr C to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent 
upon provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr C wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Pi Financial taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr C can 
discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties 
are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pi Financial pay Mr C an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). 
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
To note - if the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect Pi Financial to carry out a calculation in line 
with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay 
Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pi 
Financial Ltd to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Pi Financial Ltd pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman