DRN-3430710
The complaint
Mr K feels that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) didnt treat him fairly when 
defaulting his account. He thinks the default should be removed from his credit file.
What happened
Mr K held a current account with Halifax that was overdrawn. In September 2019 he spoke 
with Halifax and explained that he was struggling with his finances, so Halifax agreed to put 
in place a plan for him to gradually reduce his overdraft over the next few months. Mr K 
didnt make any payments into his account following that conversation, so on 28 December 
2019 Halifax wrote to Mr K to say that his account was over its arranged limit and that he 
needed to make a payment to bring the account back within the arranged limit or Halifax 
would take steps to close the account and pass it to the recoveries department. At that time 
Mr Ks account was overdrawn by £1,031.76.
Mr K says he believed his arranged overdraft limit was £1,000, so he made a payment of 
£31.76 into the account. As he thought he had brought the account back within its limit, he 
was surprised when the account was then closed.
Mr K received another letter from Halifax in March 2021 in which Halifax explained that it had 
been reviewing Mr Ks account and had determined that it hadnt always taken the 
appropriate action when dealing with his account between December 2018 and when the 
account was closed in February 2020. As a result, Halifax said it would refund to him the 
charges he had incurred during that time, and so it reduced the outstanding balance he still 
owed by £58.10.
The prompted Mr K to complain, and he contacted Halifax to say that he didnt think it had 
acted fairly when defaulting his account as he had made the payment requested but his 
account had still been closed. Mr K also raised a dispute about the default with the credit 
reference agencies, and this dispute was apparently upheld by Transunion, who said they 
felt the default should be removed.
Halifax looked at Mr Ks complaint, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Halifax said 
that, on 3 December 2019, it had written to Mr K to say that his overdraft limit had reduced to 
£945  this was part of the reducing overdraft repayment plan that had been agreed 
between Mr K and Halifax on the phone  and so when it asked him to bring his account 
back within the limit on 28 December 2019 he actually needed to pay £86.76 to avoid the 
account being closed. Halifax also pointed out that this amount was detailed on the 28 
December 2019 letter it sent to Mr K.
As Halifax felt it had correctly defaulted Mr Ks account, it didnt agree that it should remove 
the default from his credit file, regardless of what Transunion said.
Halifax did though acknowledge that its response to his complaint could have been better, 
as when it first responded to his concerns it didnt address all the issues he had raised, so it 
offered to pay him £40 for any distress that it caused him by its poor complaint handling.
Mr K remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns, she felt that Halifax hadnt acted 
unfairly in how and when it defaulted Mr Ks account. Mr K disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Halifax has acted unfairly here. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
I appreciate that Mr K says he believed he had paid enough into his account to avoid a 
default, but I dont think the evidence I have seen supports this. Ive seen the banks notes 
which show he had discussed a plan to reduce his overdraft limit each month, the letter 
dated 3 December 2019 which confirmed his overdraft limit was now £945, and Halifaxs 
letter of 28 December 2019 which specifically asked him to pay £86.76 into his account. I 
appreciate that this 28 December letter didnt specifically detail the arranged limit on his 
account, but I think it did make it clear how much Mr K needed to pay. 
I also have to bear in mind that by the time it was closed Mr Ks account had been over the 
arranged limit for an extended period of time and  other than the £31.76 he paid in January 
2020  he hadnt made any payments into the account for several months. We would not 
expect a bank to allow an account to remain in an overdraft for an extended period of time, 
with no significant payments being made to reduce the balance, without taking any action.
I think it was fair for Halifax to give Mr K that initial breathing space with a reducing limit to 
see if he could repay the balance. But when he didnt make the agreed payments, or bring 
the account back within the arranged limit when requested on 28 December 2019, I think it 
was fair for Halifax to then decide to default the account.
I appreciate that Transunion seem to believe the default has been incorrectly recorded, but 
nothing I have seen supports that, and I dont have any insight into what Transunion may 
have based that decision on. And ultimately, Im satisfied that the default accurately 
represents how Mr K has managed this account.
I acknowledge that Halifax did go on to refund a small amount of charges that Mr K had 
incurred from December 2018 until the account was closed, but I dont think that changes 
the overall position here. And I also dont think that Halifaxs offer to pay Mr K £40 to 
recognise that it could have handled his complaint better has any bearing on the fairness of 
the default that was recorded. I also note that Mr K has said Halifax holds two separate 
addresses for him, and only one of those is correct, but all the letters I have referenced in 
this decision appear to have been sent to the correct address for Mr K. And in any case, 
Mr K has confirmed he received the 28 December 2019 letter which detailed the specific 
amount he needed to pay to prevent his account from being closed and defaulted.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K, but Im satisfied that Halifax has 
treated him fairly here, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman