DRN-3082860
The complaint
Mr P has complained Klarna Bank AB (publ) provided him with an incorrect early settlement 
figure. They also never provided an explanation of how monthly payments were allocated to 
pay off the interest and capital of his loan.
What happened
Mr P took out a loan with Klarna in April 2019. In 2020 Mr P requested an early settlement 
figure. This was provided by Klarna in a letter dated 18 May 2020. The figure was valid for 
just under a month. Mr P immediately felt the rebate he was being offered for repaying early 
didnt reflect a pro-rata allocation of interest (based on the fact he still had nearly two years 
of monthly payments to make).
He also was confused by exactly the advice he was getting from Klarna about whether he 
could safely cancel his monthly direct debit payment that was due based on the early 
settlement figure.
As Mr P remained dissatisfied with what Klarna was telling him, he brought his complaint to 
the ombudsman service.
Our investigator explained that she didnt believe Klarna had done anything wrong. Theyd 
met the requirements under both consumer credit and early settlement regulations.
Mr P remained unhappy and has asked an ombudsman to make a decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mr P would do 
and Ive done so using my own words. 
Im not going to respond to every single point made by Mr P. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the two key issues here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Firstly I completely accept why Mr P is frustrated that he was never made aware of how 
payments were allocated to his loan with Klarna. This is, however, standard practice for 
loans of different types. The consumer credit regulations allow this to be the case and there 
is no regulatory requirement on businesses to explain this.
This can seem odd particularly when contrasted with credit cards which clearly explain the 
hierarchy of payments and how these are allocated on an interest-bearing credit card 
account. But that was part of an industry agreement which doesnt exist in the same way on 
other credit products.
So I have no basis for saying Klarna were incorrect in not telling Mr P how his payments 
were allocated. If subsequently Mr P had asked Klarna how they were allocated and theyd 
given him incorrect information, then that would be another thing. As far as Im aware this 
didnt happen here.
Mr P requested an early settlement figure. Its not our services role to carry out a forensic 
examination of the figures provided by Klarna and check these are correct. What I can say, 
however, is that I have no reason to suspect Klarna didnt meet their regulatory requirements 
in providing Mr P with a figure.
Mr P has raised the issue the figure may have resulted in an additional charge but this is a 
hypothetical issue which would be inappropriate for me to comment on. Mr P decided not to 
settle early so I cant be sure what the result would have been if Mr P had made the 
settlement payment that he was told was valid until 15 June 2020.
I appreciate Mr Ps complaint has been waiting for a response for some time. Im sorry about 
that but we have been dealing with a large volume of complaints over the last couple of 
years which has led to some delays. 
Mr P has also questioned how his complaint was never dealt with initially by an ombudsman. 
We have a two-stage process where cases are reviewed by an investigator first. If at the end 
no resolution is reached, both the customer and the business can request an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
My involvement and final decision marks the end of our role.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against Klarna 
Bank AB (publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman