DRN-4323890
The complaint
Ms T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) has failed to offer 
reasonable adjustments to assist her with exchanging cash which is no longer in circulation 
for new notes.
What happened
Due to her medical conditions, Ms T is unable to leave the house and relies on a carer to 
assist her with some day-to-day tasks. Ms T keeps cash stored where she can easily access 
it to give to her carer for any payments they need to make.
Ms Ts cash is in paper notes, which are no longer in circulation and have been replaced by 
the new polymer notes. Ms T wants to exchange her paper notes for the new style polymer 
notes, she has around £6,000 that she would like to exchange.
Ms T had already asked her current account provider, S, if they would exchange the notes 
for her, but they had been unwilling to do so. As a result Ms T asked Clydesdale if they 
would be able to do the exchange for her instead.
Ms T explained her particular needs to Clydesdale, specifically that due to her circumstances 
she would be unable to visit a branch herself and would need her carer to act on her behalf. 
In August 2022 Clydesdale emailed Ms T and said that it would be willing to allow her carer 
to visit the branch, pay in the old notes, and then immediately withdraw the cash as new 
notes, as long as the carer had their own ID, Ms Ts ID, and a letter of instruction from Ms T.
There were initial discussions about when the carer might come to the branch. But when 
Ms T tried to organise this appointment in September 2022, Clydesdale explained that it 
actually was not willing to do the exchange it had originally agreed to. Clydesdale made 
various suggestions as to what Ms T could do instead, but none of these suggestions 
seemed to provide the outcome Ms T was looking for, so she referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our Investigators looked at what had happened, they felt Clydesdale could be doing 
more to try and help Ms T, so they asked Clydesdale for further suggestions of how this 
issue could be resolved. When Clydesdale was unable to suggest a way forward, our 
Investigator issued their formal findings on this complaint.
The Investigator said that Clydesdale had not made any reasonable suggestions for how to 
resolve this issue, bearing in mind Ms Ts particular circumstances. They recommended that 
Clydesdale swap the notes as long as ID was provided for the carer and for Ms T, and 
Clydesdale was able to verify the exchange with Ms T on the phone on the day. The 
Investigator also recommended Clydesdale pay Ms T £50 for the poor service she had 
received.
Clydesdale initially agreed to this, with some additional requirements. It said it would allow 
the carer to pay in the old notes and then withdraw new notes under the following conditions:
oClydesdale would check every note was legitimate
oThe carer provided ID
oA signed letter was provided from Ms T giving authority for the exchange
oClydesdale would check the signature on its systems to make sure it was 
legitimate
oClydesdale would call Ms T at home and get verbal perMsion for the 
exchange
oAll of these steps would be documented to provide an audit trail
Ms T expressed some concerns about what Clydesdale were suggesting. Specifically, she 
noted that Clydesdale did not hold a signature for her on file for this account, so would be 
unable to verify that. She also questioned how Clydesdale would be able to verify it was 
speaking to her on the phone.
Clydesdale reconsidered its position, it has now said it is not willing to facilitate the exchange 
of notes under any circumstances.
As no agreement could be reached this complaint was passed to me for review, and I issued 
my provisional findings on 20 July 2023. I explained why I felt that Clydesdale had provided 
poor service to Ms T, and recommended that it pay her £200 to recognise this, but I did not 
consider that Clydesdale was obliged to exchange the notes for her. 
Clydesdale accepted my findings. Ms T has provided a detailed response setting out why 
she does not think Clydesdale has treated her fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
I understand Ms T feels that Clydesdale has failed to offer her reasonable adjustments in 
light of her particular circumstances  referencing the Equality Act 2010. For clarity, as a 
service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010 or 
discriminated against its customer  thats for the courts to do. Were an informal alternative 
to the courts and decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. For the purpose of this 
decision, based on what Ms T has told us about her disability, it appears the Act is a relevant 
consideration when deciding this complaint as a court is likely to find that shes disabled as 
defined by the Equality Act, so Ive taken that legislation and what it says about how 
businesses should treat consumers into account when considering this complaint and 
whether Clydesdale has acted fairly and reasonably here. 
Clydesdale has now said that even if Ms T were able to visit the branch it would not be 
willing to facilitate this exchange of notes. Both Clydesdale and Ms T have noted that 
Clydesdale does not hold either a signature or photo ID for Ms T. I also note that the banking 
relationship between Ms T and Clydesdale is extremely limited, her account was only 
opened in August 2022 and had been used for only limited transactions. Given the potential 
risks to Clydesdale of accepting, and exchanging, a large amount of cash from an account 
holder who they are unable to fully verify, I dont consider it is unreasonable that Clydesdale 
has decided it does not wish to offer this service to Ms T. As although there is a duty to 
make reasonable adjustments, theres also other banking regulations Clydesdale need to adhere to, particularly regarding the information it holds about its customers and what it 
knows about any transactions they wish to make.
So Im satisfied that it is reasonable for Clydesdale to decide not to agree to the exchange in 
these circumstances, and it seems that any customer, regardless of disability, would likely 
also be unable to exchange such a large amount of cash without further verification of their 
identity or a more established banking relationship. So Im satisfied that Clydesdales 
decision does not mean that it has treated Ms T unfairly when considering the requirements 
of the Equality Act.
However, I do think Clydesdale could have explained this to Ms T at a much earlier stage. I 
can also see that Clydesdale has said more than once that it could carry out the exchange  
under certain conditions  and then has changed its mind. And from the outset Clydesdale 
didnt reasonably manage Ms Ts expectations around what they could do to help her in this 
case. I consider that this lack of clarity has caused this issue to be unnecessarily drawn out, 
and I do think that this will have caused Ms T distress and inconvenience. 
Our Investigator originally suggested that Clydesdale pay Ms T £50 to recognise any 
distress and inconvenience caused. I consider a higher award is appropriate in the 
circumstances of this complaint. So I intend to tell Clydesdale to pay Ms T £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused here.
I appreciate the time Ms T has taken to provide such a detailed response to my provisional 
findings. I wont though be addressing every point she has made in the same level of detail, I 
mean no disrespect by this but I intend to focus on the main issues that have led to my 
findings. 
Firstly, though, Id like to address some issues where Ms T says my provisional decision was 
not accurate. 
In the background section of my provisional decision I noted that Ms T had opened her 
Clydesdale account in order to facilitate this exchange of notes. Ms T has said that was not 
accurate. I apologise if there was any misunderstanding here, but I do note that in an email 
to us in February this year Ms T specifically stated that she opened this account for that 
reason. In any case, the reason why she opened the account is not material to the decision 
Im reaching here.
Ms T has also noted that she thinks it was inaccurate for me to say that she had only a 
limited banking relationship with Clydesdale. Shes noted that she had long standing 
accounts with a related part of the business. But the issue here is the limited transaction 
history on her Clydesdale current account, which has added to Clydesdales overall 
concerns about facilitating this exchange of notes. 
Ms T has also commented that it was wrong to say her carer failed to turn up to an agreed 
appointment to exchange the notes. I again apologise for any misunderstanding, but the 
important factor here is that her carer did not attend the branch to exchange the notes when 
Clydesdale had initially said it was willing to facilitate the exchange, and by the time Ms T 
was able to try and arrange an appointment Clydesdale had changed its mind.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I acknowledge that Clydesdale did go back on 
what it said it would do more than once, which is why I recommended that it pay Ms T £200 
compensation, but I remain satisfied that it is not reasonable for me to insist that Clydesdale 
carry out this exchange for Ms T in the circumstances. I appreciate that Ms T has said she has a full audit trail of where the funds she wishes to 
exchange came from, but that doesnt change the fact that Clydesdale is entitled to assess 
the risk it is willing to expose itself to here and it has, ultimately, decided that it is not willing 
to carry out this exchange of cash bearing in mind the various concerns it has. Ms T has 
referred to comments she says shes had from the Bank of England and the Financial 
Conduct Authority about her circumstances. But Im not aware of anything that would require 
Clydesdale to carry out this exchange regardless of any concerns it may have. I consider 
that Clydesdale has expressed reasonable concerns about what Ms T is asking it to do and I 
dont think it is unreasonable for it to refuse Ms Ts request in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Ms Ts concerns that she has been discriminated against due to her disability, 
but as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Clydesdales decision does 
not mean that it has treated Ms T unfairly when considering the requirements of the Equality 
Act.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms T but my decision is unchanged, Clydesdale needs to 
pay her £200 to recognise the poor service provided here, but I wont; be asking it to do 
anything more.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Clydesdale should pay Ms T £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman