DRN-2653179
The complaint
Ms K and Mr M complain about delays when the re-mortgaged with The Co-operative Bank 
Plc trading as Platform. They ask for compensation for the additional interest they paid.
What happened
Ms K and Mr Ms re-mortgage was due to complete on 1 April 2020. Completion was 
delayed until 16 April. Mr M says Platform didnt tell them the mortgage wouldnt complete on 
time. He says their previous lender applied its standard variable rate (SVR) during the delay 
and this meant they paid additional interest of about £250.
Our investigator said delays were caused by the national lockdown during the Covid-19 
pandemic. She said it wasnt fair to require Platform to pay Mr M and Ms Ks additional 
interest. She said Platform did what it could and acted within a reasonable timescale in the 
exceptional circumstances at that time. Our investigator said while Platform could have told 
Mr M and Ms K about the delays sooner it was unlikely this would have changed what 
happened. 
Ms K and Mr M didnt agree. Mr M said Platform had enough time to explain the mortgage 
wouldnt complete on time. He says if hed known hed have been able to take out a product 
with his previous lender, at a slightly higher interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K and Mr M applied to re-mortgage with Platform. The solicitors issued a certificate of 
title on 23 March, with a completion date of 1 April 2020. Ms K and Mr M asked to reduce the 
amount they were borrowing. A new mortgage offer was issued on 26 March 2020.
On 23 March 2020 the UK Government announced a national lockdown in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, which came into force on 26 March 2020. The registers office in 
Scotland suspended property registrations on 24 March 2020. This meant Mr M and Ms Ks 
mortgage couldnt complete on 1 April as planned. The registers office re-opened on 3 April 
2020, a Friday. However, due to the lockdown and staff working remotely there were 
changes to how it dealt with registrations. 
The solicitors sent a new certificate of title on 8 April with a new completion date of 16 April 
2020. 
Completion of Mr M and Ms Ks re-mortgage was delayed due to circumstances outside their 
control. They say their previous lender applied its SVR during the delay and I can 
understand their frustration about this. If the delay and additional costs were due to errors by 
Platform, I might find it fair to require it to pay compensation. But I dont think thats the case. 
I have to take the exceptional circumstances into account here. The national lockdown 
meant not just the registers office, but also Platform and its solicitors had to put in place 
measures for their staff to work differently, and for processes to be wholly electronic. In the 
circumstances, I think Platform acted within a reasonable timescale to get the mortgage to 
completion.
Mr M says Platform should have contacted them when it knew completion would be delayed, 
and ideally it would have done so. But Platform would have only been able to provide limited 
information in late March. It wouldnt have known immediately what effect the lockdown 
would have on its ability to deliver services to individual customers. By late March it knew it 
couldnt complete Mr M and Ms Ks mortgage on 1 April, while the registers office was 
closed. It could have told Mr M and Ms K completion would be delayed  but wouldnt have 
been able to say for how long.
Mr M says his broker told him that Platform had said the mortgage was on track. Its not 
clear when this discussion took place  Platform wouldnt have known completion would be 
delayed until it found out the registers office had closed, which was only a few days before 
completion. 
Mr M says if theyd known about the delay theyd have been able to take out a new product 
with their existing lender and avoided or minimised the time spent on their lenders SVR. I 
cant know if theyd have done this. But I can see that the uncertainty at that time might have 
made staying with their previous lender more attractive. 
I dont know though that Mr M and Ms K would have been better off overall if theyd stayed 
with their lender. I asked them for more information and evidence of the amount of additional 
interest they paid while on their previous lenders SVR and the product they would have 
taken out with their previous lender. Mr M says he didnt get as far as a product offer, and he 
cant recall or provide anything more than hed already provided. That is, that being on the 
SVR cost them about £250 in additional interest. And the product offered by his previous 
lender had a slightly higher interest rate.
I understand its difficult for Mr M and Ms K to provide more evidence at this point. I should 
explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr M and Ms K were, presumably, saving enough money by re-mortgaging to make going to 
the trouble of doing so worthwhile. This doesnt just depend on the interest rate, but also any 
product fees and other costs. Mr M and Ms K had already incurred costs related to the re-
mortgage. And Platform offered £250 cashback. While Mr M says the £250 cashback was 
eaten up by the additional interest, they still benefitted from the lower interest rate offered 
by Platform. Based on the limited evidence available to me, I think its likely they are better 
off overall by re-mortgaging, despite the delay. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair to require Platform to pay compensation to Mr M and 
Ms K for any upset and worry caused by not being told what was happening in late 
March/early April, about the delay. But from what they say, they werent aware of the delay 
until the solicitor contacted them with the new completion date. So by the time they knew 
there was a problem, theyd also been given clear information about what was happening. 
The delay to Mr M and Ms Ks re-mortgage completing wasnt due to any error by Platform. I 
think it took reasonable steps to complete within a reasonable timescale, given the unusual 
circumstance at the time. While it would have been better service to have told Mr M and 
Ms K about the delay in late March, Platform could only have given them limited information. I dont know if Mr M and Ms K would have stayed with their previous lender if it had, and I 
think its unlikely theyd be better off overall if they had stayed with their previous lender. In 
the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Platform to pay 
compensation to Mr M and Ms K for the delay in their re-mortgage completing. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman