DRN-1804668
The complaint
The complaint Mr B and Miss W complain about the way QIC Europe Limited dealt with a 
legal expenses insurance claim. 
What happened
The legal expenses policy started around August 2018. In September home improvements 
were being conducted and it became apparent that there was an issue with some internal 
flooring. In short, its suspected that previous owners had work carried out which left 
instability, and which wasnt disclosed during the house sale process. Additional work was 
needed to stabilise the problem.
 
Mr B contacted his home insurer to see if his home policy covered the matter but was told it 
did not. One of my colleagues has issued a final decision about that matter. 
Mr B spoke with QIC, his legal expenses insurer, to establish whether there was an action 
he might be able to take against the previous owners and/or their solicitors and/or other 
agents involved in the house sale process. In summary, Mr B complains that QIC unfairly 
declined cover initially and as a result hes incurred legal expenses in seeking evidence to 
support his claim. Hes also unhappy at the way in which QIC acted saying it caused him 
huge amounts of stress and expense. He wants QIC to pay him in the region of £46,000.
One of our investigators explained to the parties why she was upholding some of Mr Bs 
complaint. She said it was unreasonable for QIC to dispute the barristers opinion that Mr B 
had paid for, which concluded prospects of success were 60%. She thought QIC should 
backdate cover to the date of this opinion (May 2019). In addition, she said QIC should 
agree solicitors to be instructed and cover the legal expenses Mr B had incurred. 
The investigator explained further that while QIC had eventually agreed to cover Mr Bs 
claim, he had in that time suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of 
QICs approach. She thought that £300 reflected a fair amount for the lack of progress and 
delay.
 
QIC agreed with the investigators opinion but Mr B did not. He said £300 was an insult and 
insufficient to reflect the impact on his relationship, job and financial pressure. He said the 
failure by QIC was well before May 2019 and the barristers opinion as QIC had gone 
against the guidance of its own solicitors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs legal expenses insurance policy provides cover for certain situations and disputes, as 
described in the policy. One of the fundamental conditions of cover is that there must be at 
least a 51% chance of achieving a favourable outcome (prospects of success). Theres no 
dispute that the type of dispute is one the policy covers; the issue is around prospects of 
success.
 
Panel solicitors were instructed by QIC at the end of 2018 and it appears they corresponded 
with QIC in early January 2019. In the correspondence Ive seen it doesnt look like a 
detailed legal opinion was given on the prospects of success. Much of the single page 
correspondence is about policy coverage rather than the prospects of success for Mr Bs 
intended action. Although, it follows that if theres no policy coverage theres no need to 
consider the prospects of success. However, what QIC did was to advise Mr B of the 
information that was needed to assess the claim properly, including the information he 
needed to provide from relevant parties. Im satisfied QICs decision and request was within 
the policy terms as the information would enable it to properly assess the prospects of 
success for Mr Bs enquiry.
In early May 2019 Mr B sent a barristers report to QIC supporting the prospects of success 
of his claim. QIC didnt accept the basis of the barristers opinion in demonstrating prospects 
of success. It has now accepted to cover Mr Bs claim from this date and so I dont need to 
comment further on this point. Im satisfied that this is the point from which QIC should have 
covered Mr Bs claim. 
The basis of policy cover is that QIC will pay claims for professional fees on a standard cost 
basis, which is defined in the policy as the professional fees QIC would normally pay for its 
nominated professionals. And of course, the remaining policy terms are applicable during 
any claim. So, for example, if there comes a time that prospects of success are considered 
to no longer exist QIC may withdraw cover. 
QIC has agreed to refund the legal fees Mr B incurred with the instruction of Counsel and 
has apparently asked Mr B for proof of same. As far as Im aware Mr B hasnt provided such 
information yet. Where Mr B can demonstrate that he has i) paid legal fees and ii) the legal 
fees relate to the instruction of Counsel for the proposed claim, I expect QIC to pay these. 
Equally, if legal fees are not to do with the instructions for Counsel in advising on prospects 
of success then QIC does not have to pay these. So, it may assist the efficient settlement if 
Mr B asks his solicitors to specify which fees charged (and paid) relate to Counsels 
instruction. 
I appreciate Mr B wants QIC to pay him the policy limit in its entirety upfront. And he thinks 
QIC should pay additional amounts to cover the cost of the repair works. But thats not how 
the policy works and theres no contractual requirement for QIC to do so. There is a policy 
limit of £25,000 for legal expenses cover, and where theres a valid claim this is the 
maximum amount QIC is required to pay. It may be that matters can be resolved without 
incurring fees up to the policy limit, and if thats the case QIC wouldnt need to make 
payments beyond that amount. 
 
The next issue to decide is whether compensation for distress and inconvenience is, in all 
the circumstances, fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that QIC acted fairly with its initial 
decision to require more information from Mr B. The policy states that where there is 
disagreement about whether its worth making or continuing a claim, QIC may ask Mr B to 
get an opinion from a solicitor or barrister. This was the situation and QIC gave further 
details of what Mr B should provide. When the barristers opinion was provided in early May 
2019, that being the accepted point at which QIC should have accepted the claim, delay 
from that point was having an impact on Mr B. QICs offer to Mr B came in December 2019 
and so Im satisfied that the period of avoidable delay is around seven months.
 
During this time, I must look at the impact the delay in progressing the legal case had. This 
is distinct from the building insurance claim and the inconvenience repairs and renovations may have had. Legal proceedings often take a considerable amount of time, particularly 
where liability isnt accepted. Here, theres no information that suggests the delay impacted 
the available evidence. I note from QICs file that it wrote to Mr B in December 2019 saying, 
among other things, that it hadnt heard from him since the end of July. That lack of contact, 
in my view, is relevant to how I balance what fair compensation is. Mr B may well have been 
caught up in other activities to do with the house or general day to day activities. But it is 
difficult to reconcile a high level of distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in 
agreeing to cover the claim, with a lack of objective contact from Mr B. The investigator 
recommended £300 and QIC has agreed with this amount. In all the circumstances, Im 
satisfied its a fair amount for the delay caused by QIC in progressing the legal expenses 
claim. 
Putting things right
I require QIC to do the following; i) pay £300 compensation to Mr B1 ; ii) refund Mr Bs legal 
fees where he demonstrates he has made a payment and that payment relates to the 
instruction of Counsel in relation to prospect of success; iii) As already agreed, consider 
Mr Bs claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy which includes the 
policy limit of fees up to £25,000.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Limited to do what I have detailed in the 
section Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman