DRN-2944519
The complaint
Mr D complains that in respect of his property insurance claim for malicious damage by 
tenants, Zurich Insurance PLC wont pay his loss of rent and has delayed in carrying out the 
repairs.
What happened
Mr D owns a flat in a block. The freehold owner of the block has a policy which Mr D benefits 
from as a leasehold owner. In July 2020 Mr D had let his property on a 12 month shorthold 
tenancy agreement. In November 2020 the tenants had abruptly left and Mr D found that the 
flat had been used for illegal drug cultivation. Considerable damage was caused and Mr D 
made a claim to Zurich.
A scope of repairs was drawn up in January 2021 and repairs were due to start in March 
2021. Mr D wanted to claim for loss of rent or for alternative accommodation. He also 
complained about the delay in starting repairs.
Zurich said there was no delay and said that loss of rent isnt payable under the policy where 
the leaseholder doesnt also occupy the property.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Zurich had acted reasonably up until the 
time of the complaint in March 2021.
Mr D didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision 
This decision concerns matters up until Mr Ds first complaint in March 2021 and Zurichs 
final response to that complaint dated 15 March 2021. I understand Mr D has made a further 
complaint since then. That will be dealt with separately.
delay
The claim was logged with Zurich in November 2020. Mr D advised the keys were available 
from 8 December 2020.  A surveyor attended on 15 December. Subsequently a scope of 
works was drawn up and submitted to Zurich for approval. The scope was validated and 
approved in January 2021. A plumber and electrician needed to attend and repair initial 
damage before repairs could start. This work was all completed by 9 March. Repairs were 
scheduled to start on 15 March.
There was one missed appointment by the surveyor but he had already advised Mr D that 
his car wasnt likely to be available; a revised appointment took place the next day. While the 
plumbing and electrical works were pending, Mr D consulted over his material choices.
Up until 15 March 2021 I dont think there was any culpable delay on the part of Zurich.
loss of rent
Mr D has complained that Zurich wont pay for loss of rent or alternative accommodation 
whilst hes unable to occupy the property or rent it out.
In respect of loss of rent, the policy says:
The insurer will indemnify the insured in respect of:
a) loss of rent; or
b) the reasonable additional costs necessarily incurred for comparable temporary
accommodation including the insureds removal expenses during the Indemnity Period
arising from damage to housing properties or other properties by any of the insured perils
stated in the schedule.
Provided always that:
.
 c) in respect of leasehold, shared ownership and factored housing the lessee, shared or
factored owner occupies the property.
Although there is no bar on the property being let out by leasehold owners, the block policy 
as can be seen doesnt cover loss of rent unless the lessee (leasehold owner) occupies the 
property. Mr D didnt occupy the property at the time of the claim. He had entered into a 
tenancy agreement in July 2020 for a 12 month period. So unfortunately, in Mr Ds 
circumstances, the policy doesnt cover loss of rent as a result of the claim. For the future, 
Mr D might want to consider taking out a separate policy to cover landlords liabilities.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman