DRN-4003897
The complaint
Miss W complains that the car she acquired through a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) was not of satisfactory quality and she should be able to 
reject it.
What happened
Miss W acquired a car through a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers at the end 
of December 2020. The car was around seven years old and had travelled around 75,000 
miles at the time it was supplied.
The car broke down on her way home from the dealership, as it had a faulty clutch. She took 
it back and the dealership carried out repairs on this immediately.
A few months later, in April 2021, warning lights appeared on the dashboard. Miss W asked 
an independent garage to look at the car, and they said the timing belt had disintegrated into 
the engine, which is why the engine wasnt working. They also highlighted some issues with 
oil pressure. Miss W was advised not to drive the car, and it was towed to the independent 
garage.
Miss W contacted the car dealership who had brokered the agreement, and they advised her 
to contact her warranty provider. She did this, but as the problem wasnt a mechanical issue, 
the warranty company said it wasnt something they could help with.
Miss W contacted Close Brothers about the problems she was facing, and she received two 
final response letters (FRLs) from them about the issues over the following months. These 
confirmed that an independent report had been instructed, but this hadnt been able to 
confirm any of the issues she described, and the second FRL sent in October 2021 said that 
if she could prove the timing belt had failed prematurely, she would have a claim against the 
manufacturer, but they werent able to help with that.
Unhappy with this, Miss W brought her complaint to our service in February 2022. An 
investigator here investigated it and upheld it in Miss Ws favour. They said that the car had 
only travelled around 1,600 miles before the problems had occurred, which did not suggest 
that the car was durable.
They said they were persuaded that based on the information supplied by the independent 
garage, that a potential lack of servicing had led to the oil not being changed regularly, and it 
was found to be thicker and had deteriorated. A timing belt for this vehicle would be 
expected to last ten years or 150,000 miles (whichever comes first), but the key to it lasting 
this sort of timeframe would be regular servicing including oil changes. The investigator felt 
that the thickened oil had most likely caused the timing belt to fail.
As such, they didnt feel the car was durable when supplied, and issued their view in July 
2022. They said that Close Brothers should collect the car and end the agreement and 
refund Miss Ws payments from April 2021 when the car had failed and been off the road. 
They also recommended £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss W accepted this view, but Close Brothers did not respond. The investigator tried to 
contact them by calling and resending their view, but after a month had passed without 
hearing from Close Brothers, they put the case forward for an Ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2023. I made the following provisional 
findings:
I have had many email conversations with both Close Brothers and Miss W about this case 
in recent weeks. I initially reached out to Close Brothers to see if they were prepared to 
accept the view already provided by our investigator, and re-shared relevant evidence with 
them.
They agreed that they would accept the view and uphold the complaint, but there was a 
query about storage costs for the vehicle. Ill come on to talk about this below. 
With regards to the crux of the complaint, I am satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality. All parties have now agreed that this was the case, so I dont intend to go over this in 
detail again.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The timing belt has failed prematurely and within six months of the car being supplied to 
Miss W, and I agree that this evidences that the car wasnt durable. Miss W had already had 
some repairs on the car, so is within her rights to reject the car, and has made it clear this is 
what she wanted to happen.
I give more weight to the report produced by the garage for Miss W, which detailed the 
problems they had found, including the timing belt failure. The independent report carried out 
on behalf of Close Brothers didnt confirm these problems, but this was largely due to issues 
with examining the car in the location where it was parked. The report made clear further 
investigation would be needed to clarify the problems, but I am satisfied that this 
investigation had already been carried out by the garage Miss W originally asked to look at 
the car for her.
My original intention was to speed things up, hence I reached out to Close Brothers to see if 
they would accept the view and uphold the case and process the rejection. Whilst they 
agreed the rejection of the car, unfortunately we havent been able to agree the issue of 
storage costs for the car.
The car has been at the independent garage where it was towed since April 2021. Close 
Brothers told me that it is the customers responsibility to store the vehicle at their registered 
address, so they do not feel they should be liable for any storage costs that garage charges.
However, I can see an email on file from Miss W to Close Brothers in December 2021, 
where she asks Close Brothers for advice or help about what to do. She explains that the car 
is undriveable, and that she doesnt have a drive to leave the car on and cant leave a 
completely undriveable car on the public highway. Ive asked Close Brothers about this and 
shared the email with them, but there doesnt appear to have been a reply sent to Miss W at the time or since.
Ive also considered the circumstances of the case in thinking about the storage costs. Miss 
W has had a car of unsatisfactory quality which has been completely undriveable since April 
2021. Shes asked the dealer/broker to help, who referred her to her warranty company, but 
they explained they couldnt cover the cost of any repairs. Shes then raised the complaint 
with Close Brothers, who havent upheld it or provided any potential options or discussed 
what she needs to do with the car or issues about where it was stored.
When the complaint was brough to our service and upheld in Miss Ws favour, Close 
Brothers didnt respond with any answer for many months, until I reached out and they 
agreed the car was not of satisfactory quality. Whilst I appreciate that some of the delay has 
been the time taken for us to reach this stage at our service, I dont think the complaint is 
particularly complicated, and I think its clear from the evidence that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. This could and probably should have been agreed much sooner 
between the parties.
Miss W has attempted to mitigate any issues with storage by reaching out to Close Brothers 
in December 2021, to ask for help and advice about what to do about the undriveable car 
being parked at the garage, but theyve not responded to her.
For these reasons, Im persuaded that Close Brothers should deal with any storage costs to 
collect the car from the independent garage. I asked them to reach out to discuss the 
situation with the garage, to try to agree a price, because the invoice for storage costs 
issued just before Christmas 2022 by the garage was not economically viable to pay based 
on the value of the car.
I dont believe they have spoken to the garage about this yet, so would highlight the 
opportunity to do this prior to me issuing a final decision. That will give them the chance to 
provide any further comments or evidence about this before that final decision. It has been 
indicated to me that the garage is prepared to negotiate on this issue, so hopefully an 
agreement can be reached between them and Close Brothers.
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience suffered by Miss W. When our 
investigator issued a view, they recommended £150 to recognise the distress caused from 
the car being undriveable and the inconvenience this caused Miss W. But since that point 
(July 2022), I am persuaded that Miss W has suffered more distress and inconvenience.
When Close Brothers didnt respond to that view for many months, Miss W has been further 
inconvenienced, and suffered more distress, as she didnt know what was going to happen 
or whether Close Brothers were going to engage with our service again to try to resolve this 
situation.
Shes also reached out to Close Brothers in good time about what to do about the car being 
stuck at the garage, but not had a response, and then been caused further distress about 
the large invoice for storage costs and what was going to be done about it.
Im persuaded therefore that this increased distress and inconvenience warrants a payment 
of £300.
I am provisionally upholding this complaint, and intend to instruct Close Brothers Limited to 
carry out the following actions to put things right:
- Collect the car (from the independent garage) at no further cost to Miss W (including no 
storage costs to be paid by Miss W).- End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
- Refund all monthly payments made from 24 April 2021 onwards, the point at which the car 
was unable to be driven.
- Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts above from the date of the payment until 
the date of settlement.
- Pay a further amount of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss W due to 
the problems with the car and the delays in dealing with them.
- Remove any adverse information from Miss Ws credit file in relation to the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W responded to the provisional decision confirming she had nothing further to add. 
Close Brothers have not responded with any comments about the provisional decision.
 As such, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and the reasons for them. 
For the reason laid out in my provisional decision and repeated above, I am upholding this 
complaint.
Putting things right
I instruct Close Brothers Limited to do the following:
- Collect the car (from the independent garage) at no further cost to Miss W (including no 
storage costs to be paid by Miss W).
- End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
- Refund all monthly payments made from 24 April 2021 onwards, the point at which the car 
was unable to be driven.
- Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts above from the date of the payment until 
the date of settlement.
- Pay a further amount of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss W due to 
the problems with the car and the delays in dealing with them.
- Remove any adverse information from Miss Ws credit file in relation to the agreement.
If Close Brothers considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 Paul Cronin
Ombudsman