DRN-4018888
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain about Fairmead Insurance Limited (FIL) and the way they handled 
the claim they made following an escape of water at their home.
Mr G has acted as the main representative during the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments or actions taken by either Mrs G or Mr G as Mr G 
throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G held a home insurance policy, underwritten by FIL. Unfortunately, in June 
2022, Ms G and Mr G discovered a leak at their home. So, they contacted FIL to make a 
claim.
The leak itself was confirmed as fixed in early July. But the leak itself, as well as the access 
work to locate it, had damaged Mrs G and Mr Gs home. So, FIL instructed a contractor to 
attend the property and estimate the repair work that would be required.  This estimate was 
received towards the end of July and, due to the costs involved, FIL took the decision to 
appoint a loss adjustor, who Ill refer to as X, to handle the claim on their behalf. 
X attended Mrs G and Mr Gs home in mid-August, and they sent their report to FIL the 
following week confirming the repair works that were required. FIL approved this work in 
September, and a contractor, who Ill refer to as R was appointed.
But the stripping out of Mrs G and Mr Gs home wasnt started until the end of October, with 
the required drying process starting shortly after. Mrs G and Mr G were unhappy about the 
service they received, so they raised two separate complaints.
Initially, Mrs G and Mr G complained about the length of time it had taken from the claim 
being raised for the repair works to begin. They explained they had been on holiday during 
August and completing the work in this time wouldve minimised the disruption to them. So, 
they were unhappy this hadnt been done and that the work would now happen during the 
colder months of the year.
FIL responded to this first complaint in October 2022 and accepted there had been 
avoidable delays during the claim process. So, they offered to pay Mrs G and Mr G £250 to 
recognise the impact this had caused. And the repair work was booked in for the end of the 
month.
But Mrs G and Mr G were unhappy with the stripping out works that had been completed 
and the condition R had left their house in following this work. They again raised their 
unhappiness with the length of time the claim had taken, and the fact they were living in a 
home without access to cooking and clothes washing facilities. 
FIL responded to this complaint on 2 December and again upheld it. They accepted the 
claim had encountered further delays and they accepted the service Mrs G and Mr G had 
received wasnt the standard theyd expect. So, they offered Mrs G and Mr G a further £150, 
taking the total compensation offered to £400 overall. Mrs G and Mr G remained unhappy 
with this response, so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised FIL had 
accepted there had been delays during the claim process, and that the service couldve 
been improved. But they thought the £400 already paid was a fair one. They recognised Mr 
Gs comments surrounding lack of access to a working kitchen, but our investigator didnt 
think the home was uninhabitable due to another kitchen being available and so, they didnt 
think Mr G and his family qualified for either alternative accommodation or disturbance 
allowance. Because of this, they didnt think FIL needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree. He didnt think the £400 offered was enough to compensate him for the 
inconvenience hed been caused, which included his inability to work from home due to the 
noise created by drilling during the repair works. And Mr G explained had the work been 
completed while he was away in August, he wouldnt have suffered this disruption. He also 
explained that while another kitchen was available, this hadnt been connected. And when 
they tried to connect this, they discovered the electric cooker wasnt working. So, they didnt 
think it was fair to say the house was habitable and that alternative accommodation shouldnt 
have been offered. Mr G also went onto explain the inconvenience hes been caused since 
the last response to his complaint, including their inability to host family over the Christmas 
period and the health issues hes faced due to the stress of the situation. So, Mr G 
maintained his belief the compensation offered to him should be increased. As Mr G didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think FIL need to offer anything more than the £400 that has already 
been offered over their two complaint responses. Ive focused my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Under the rules set by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, our service is only able to consider complaints, and the 
subsequent impact to a customer, that have been raised with a business who have in turn 
been given eight weeks to consider within their own internal complaint procedure.
In this situation, I can see that FIL have issued two final responses to Mr Gs complaint, the 
latest response being issued on 2 December 2022. So, my decision focuses solely on the 
service FIL have provided from the beginning of the claim up until this date. Any actions FIL 
have taken, or any impact Mr G and his family have suffered, after this date fall outside of 
our services jurisdiction to consider, as I cant see that FIL have been given an opportunity 
to consider this and provide a response. Mr G is able to raise a separate complaint about 
this, should he remain unhappy and wish to do so.
To begin with, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs G and Mr G. I 
understand they took out the insurance policy with FIL to help assist them both logistically 
and financially in a situation such as the one they found themselves in. And I dont think it 
was unrealistic of Mr G to expect FIL to handle their claim in a way that minimised the 
disruption to their daily lives. 
FIL have already accepted there were avoidable delays during the claim process. And that the service they provided fell short of their expectations during this time. Its also accepted 
that this has impacted Mr G and his family, and that hes been inconvenienced because of 
this. So, I think its accepted that FIL have failed to meet Mr Gs expectations and that he 
has been unnecessarily disrupted because of this. So, I dont intend to discuss the merits of 
these complaint issues any further.
Instead, Ive focused on the main area of dispute, which centres around what FIL should 
fairly do to put things right. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what FIL should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mrs G and Mr G back in the position they wouldve been, had FIL acted 
fairly in the first place.
In this situation, FIL have accepted there have been avoidable delays in the claim process. I 
can see that between 26 July and 15 August, FIL failed to action the report they were 
provided by the initial contractor who inspected Mrs G and Mr Gs home. And between 4 
September and 5 October, FIL failed to approve the required repairs that allowed R to agree 
a repair start date with Mrs G and Mr G.  So, I think the claim was unnecessarily delayed by 
around two months and that, had these delays been avoided, work on Mr Gs home wouldve 
started sooner. 
I recognise during this time, Mrs G and Mr G were living in a damaged home that required 
repair. And I appreciate the upset this wouldve caused. I also note that during most of this 
period, Mrs G and Mr G chased FIL for updates, rather than FIL proactively providing these. 
And I dont think this shouldve been Mrs G and Mr Gs responsibility. I also accept that, had 
there not been a two-month delay, the works wouldve likely started around the start of 
September, rather than November, when the weather wouldve been better and so, the 
impact of any works been mitigated.
Ive also seen photos that Mr G has provided showing rubbish left outside his home after the 
stripping out work had been completed to allow the drying to commence. And I dont think it 
was reasonable for R to have left this rubbish at the property.
But I recognise Mrs G and Mr G feels there had been additional impact that hasnt been 
considered. Specifically, Mr G doesnt think hes been compensated for the disruption 
caused to him working from home. Mr G has stated that, due to the drilling at the property, 
he's not been able to focus due to the noise. But as Ive explained above, this decision 
focuses solely on the impact to Mrs G and Mr G up to 2 December 2022. And I note that Mrs 
G and Mr G were on holiday when the stripping work was carried out. And it was only the 
drying process in place when they returned. So, I cant see how Mr G wouldve been 
inconvenienced by drilling during the period of time Im able to consider. 
Mr G has also expressed his unhappiness about living in a home without cooking and 
clothes washing facilities. And he feels he shouldve been offered alternative 
accommodation or disturbance allowance.
But Ive seen the terms of Mr Gs insurance policy, which explains that FIL will only pay 
alternative accommodation costs if your home is unfit to live in. In this situation, Mr G and 
his family had access to bathing facilities, as well as access to running water and heating in 
the majority of their home. And they also had access to another kitchen located in their 
annex. While I appreciate Mr Gs comments about the electric cooker in this kitchen, and the 
fact it didnt work, I dont think it was FILs responsibility to ensure the additional cooker Mr G had access to was functional. Mr G couldve looked to repair or replace this cooker to ensure 
he had access to cooking facilities, and I think this was Mr Gs own responsibility to arrange. 
So, I dont think FIL were unfair to deem Mr Gs home fit to live in. I appreciate Mr Gs 
washer couldnt be used, but I think Mr G and Mrs G wouldve been able to make alternative 
clothes washing arrangements and I dont think lack of access to this alone rendered their 
home uninhabitable. 
I also recognise Mr Gs comments about the delays and how, had FIL acted without delay, 
the works to his home couldve been completed while he was on holiday. But Ive seen no 
evidence to show this was ever agreed between FIL and Mr G. And even if it had been, I 
recognise that the stripping and drying out process took over three weeks, which is longer 
than the time Mr G was away in August. And this is before reinstatement works have been 
factored in, which took place after 2 December and so, havent been looked at within this 
decision.
So, I still think Mr G wouldve been inconvenienced by the repair works needed to his home. 
And I dont think FIL are responsible for this inconvenience as they were required to strip out 
parts of Mr Gs home to allow for the drying process to take place.
I also recognise Mr G feels this stripping out process wasnt done correctly, and this should 
also be considered as part of the compensatory offer. But I can see the drying out process 
conducted after the stripping out process was deemed to be successful. So, I think it follows 
that, over the period Ive been able to consider, there is nothing to suggest the stripping 
works werent carried out correctly or successfully.
Considering all of the above, I note FIL have offered to pay Mrs G and Mr G a total 
compensatory amount of £400. And having considered this, I think this offer is a fair one, 
that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed had it not already 
been made. 
I think it fairly recognises the avoidable delays during the claim process, which has left Mr G 
and Mrs G with a damaged home for longer than I think was necessary. And I think it 
recognises the failures in the service FIL provided, including the lack of communication with 
Mr G and Mrs G.
But I think it also takes into account the fact that Mrs G and Mr G did have an alternative 
kitchen available, regardless of the electric cookers working status, which I think means they 
were fair to decide alternative accommodation wasnt necessary. I think it also takes into 
account the fact that stripping and drying works were required and that it was also going to 
create some unavoidable inconvenience to Mrs G and Mr G, which FIL were unable to 
mitigate.
So, I think the £400 should be paid to Mrs G and Mr G, if it hasnt been already. I am 
assuming it hasnt been paid, as the offer FIL made to Mrs G and Mr G was payable subject 
to their acceptance. And I recognise Mrs G and Mr G have raised their disputes to this 
amount to our service.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs G and Mr G were hoping for. And I appreciate the 
claim has continued after the second final response FIL issued on 2 December and that 
some of the inconvenience they feel should be considered falls during this time. Mrs G and 
Mr G are able to put these concerns to FIL directly and, should they remain unhappy with 
FILs response, would be able to contact our service separately about these points. But 
these concerns havent impacted the decision Ive reached on this occasion, regarding the 
actions of FIL from June to 2 December 2022.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint about Fairmead 
Insurance Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs G and Mr G £400 if it has not already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman