DRN-3501921
The complaint
Miss H complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a claim 
she made on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the full details 
again here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.  
Ill refer to Miss Hs pet as L. L was taken to the vet suffering with pyometra and cystitis, she 
was then spayed as part of a lifesaving operation. Red Sands has declined the claim as it 
says spaying isnt something covered by the policy. It also said that as a spay had also 
previously been recommended as a preventative treatment for L, it wouldnt cover any of the 
cost of the surgery that had to be performed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion the case should be upheld. I do so 
for the following reasons.
I recognise, taking a strict interpretation of the policy terms, the cost of a spay isnt 
covered by the policy. As this is something that is usually a routine, optional 
operation a pet owner may choose to have performed on their pet to prevent 
unwanted pregnancies. However, I dont think that fits the circumstances here as it 
wasnt an optional surgery. The spay was performed in order to save Ls life. So, I 
dont think strictly applying the policy terms in the circumstances of this case provides 
an outcome that is fair and reasonable.
Red Sands has also cited the same policy term which goes on to say it will not pay 
for preventative treatment or any consequences related to the preventative treatment 
not being undertaken. L had previously had a phantom pregnancy and I can see from 
Ls veterinary history it was suggested she could be spayed to prevent further 
phantom pregnancies. 
However, the evidence I have available to me suggests that pyometra isnt 
specifically linked to phantom pregnancies, it is something any unneutered female 
dog could suffer from.  
I agree with the logic that had L been spayed to prevent a further phantom pregnancy 
she wouldnt have had a womb and therefore wouldnt have had pyometra. But, I 
think that is too far removed from the reason the spay was recommended to start 
with. So, I dont think its reasonable, in the specific circumstances of this case, for 
Red Sands to conclude that the pyometra happened as a consequence of a 
recommended treatment not being undertaken.
Having considered everything, for the reasons set out above I dont think Red Sands 
has reasonably applied the policy terms in all the circumstances of this claim and that 
in doing so, it has reached an outcome that is unfair. As such, I am upholding 
Miss Hs complaint.  I also think Miss H will have been caused some trouble and 
upset by the way in which Red Sands has dealt with the claim, so I think it should 
also pay her £100 compensation to reflect this. 
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Red Sands should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.  If the claim is successful Red Sands should arrange to cover the cost of the 
treatment L received up to any limit of the policy and excluding any excess payable. 
If Miss H has made any payments towards the cost of the treatment L received which would 
have been covered by the policy, Red Sands should arrange to reimburse Miss H those 
costs plus interest at 8% simple per annum, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. If Red Sands considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a certificate.
Red Sands should also pay Miss H £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint against Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman