DRN-4010630
The complaint
Ms SF, on behalf of the late Mrs F, is complaining that Highway Insurance Company Limited 
hasnt covered some of the losses shes claimed for after making a claim through Mrs Fs 
buildings insurance policy.
For the ease of reference, I have referred to any actions carried out by one of Highways 
agents  e.g. its loss adjustor  as being carried out by Highway.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, in July 2021 Mrs Fs property suffered significant damage when the front 
parapet wall bordering her and her neighbours property collapsed causing internal and 
external damage to Mrs Fs property. Ms SF contacted Highway to claim for the damage on 
the propertys buildings insurance policy. Shes unhappy with the way Highway has handled 
the claim for the following reasons: 
Shes unhappy Highway wont require her neighbours insurance policy to cover the 
damage to her property and also for causing the parapet to collapse. She highlighted 
that the council had issued a notice against her neighbour requiring them to urgently fix 
their portion of the parapet as it was in danger of collapsing. Shes unhappy Highway has 
said there isnt prospects of successfully holding the neighbour responsible.
She wanted Highway to reinstall an internal staircase to the downstairs flat. She said the 
front stairs were severely damaged so there was no access to the flat. She thought a fair 
remedy for this would be for Highway to build an internal staircase to enable them to 
have access to the downstairs flat.
Highway ultimately said it wouldnt pay to replace the parapet. It highlighted that a 
surveyor report carried out shortly before the parapet collapsed highlighted issues with 
both sides of it  including the section belonging to Mrs F. It thought the parapet 
collapsed due to wear and tear as opposed to anything covered by the insurance policy. 
It agreed that the resulting damage was covered under accidental damage, but it didnt 
agree the parapet was. Ms SF disagreed with this as she reiterated that the council 
notice was only issued to her neighbour and not to Mrs Fs property. She maintained that 
her part of the parapet collapsed due to the failure of her neighbours section.
Shes unhappy Highway wants to cash settle the claim and not carry out any repairs. 
Highway says it cannot fix the remaining issues until the parapet is rectified. Ms SF 
thinks this is unfair.
Shes unhappy with the length of time it took Highway to review the claim as she says it 
took Highway over nine months to say it wouldnt cover the parapet. She said shes been 
living in the property in a damaged state throughout.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint and I said 
the following:
Ms SF has raised concerns about a number of Highways actions in the handling of this 
claim. I shall consider each point separately.
Was it fair for Highway to say it wouldnt cover the parapet?
An insurance policy doesnt cover each and every eventuality that may occur and cause a 
loss. An insurance policy will generally set out a series of events where a policy may provide  
cover. But it will also set out a number of exclusions where the insurer may decline a claim. 
Mrs Fs policy is no different  including providing cover for accidental damage. The issue for 
me to decide is whether the parapets collapse was down to accidental damage or not. 
The policy defines accidental damage as Damage caused suddenly and by unexpected 
means. This definition does not include damage caused by wear and tear, anything that 
happens gradually or faulty design or faulty materials.
Ms SF says the parapet collapsed due to the failure of her neighbours parapet. However 
Highway says it was down to wear and tear. Ive taken both parties viewpoints into 
consideration in thinking about whats fair and reasonable. But Ive particularly taken 
consideration of the surveyors report that was carried out a few weeks before the parapet 
collapsed, as I think this is the most persuasive evidence. This report sets out the following: 
It is evident that the parapet wall excessive leans away from the building. This is not only 
within [Mrs Fs neighbours] building but also it continues into [Mrs Fs] building.
Ultimately, the surveyor concluded that there were issues with both sides of the parapet  
i.e. that part of the parapet belonging to Mrs F was already coming away. So, while I 
acknowledge that the council only issued a notice against Mrs Fs neighbour, Im satisfied 
that, on balance, its most likely Mrs Fs parapet was already failing and I think it came away 
as a result of a gradual deterioration as opposed to a sudden event. So I dont think I can 
reasonably say it was unfair for Highway to say that the failure wasnt down to accidental 
damage. It follows, therefore, that I dont think Ive seen enough to conclude that the 
damage to the parapet wall was down to an insured event.
I acknowledge Ms SF has set out a different situation where an insurer covered a similar 
situation. But I can only look at whether Highway acted fairly and reasonably, taking into 
account all the circumstances and the relevant terms of the insurance policy. And, as I said, 
Im satisfied its decision to not cover the damage to the parapet wasnt unfair. 
Internal staircase
The property in question is a three story property containing a basement flat which Mrs F 
resided in. I understand that the property previously had an internal staircase, but it was 
removed to make the flat a self-contained part of the building with access through external 
stairs. However, these stairs were essentially demolished when the parapet wall collapsed 
meaning there was no longer any access to the basement flat. So Ms SF asked Highway to 
reinstall the internal staircase to enable them to continue to have access to the basement flat  
while the work was completed at the front of the property. However Highway said it wasnt 
required to do so.
Under the terms of the insurance policy Highway says it will pay for the cost of work carried 
out in repairing or replacing the damaged parts of your [Mrs Fs] buildings and agreed fees 
and related costs.
The key point here is that its only required to repair or replace parts of the building that was 
damaged by the insured event  i.e. the external staircase in this respect. I understand 
Highway installed a temporary external staircase as a temporary replacement for the 
damaged staircase. I can also see that Highway explored the option of installing a temporary 
internal staircase, but it didnt think it wasnt cost effective to do so. It also highlighted that there were various building control regulations that it would have to comply with to fit such a 
staircase. Ultimately, under the terms of the policy, Highway was only required to fix the 
external staircase and wasnt required to install an internal staircase. It arranged for a 
temporary external staircase to be added to grant access to the basement flat. I can also see 
it offered to move items Ms SF needed to one of the other floors to enable her to continue to 
use them. So I cant say it treated her unfairly in this regard.
Recovery of outlay from the neighbours
Ms SF says, given the council notice required the neighbour to fix the parapet wall, it follows 
that the damage arose due to their failure to comply with the notice. So she though Highway 
should look to hold her neighbour responsible  and, in particular, recover its outlay from the 
neighbour.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing the damage, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Highway has carried 
out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision. 
Highway ultimately concluded that there werent reasonable prospects of successfully 
pursuing Ms SFs neighbour for the damage. It reiterated that the damage was down to wear 
and tear, rather than anything the neighbour did wrong. I can see it thought about whether it 
could hold the neighbour responsible for non-compliance of the council notice. But it said 
that the wall collapsed only a few weeks after the notice was served. So it concluded that it 
couldnt reasonably say that there was sufficient time and opportunity for the neighbour to do 
anything to prevent the further damage. And it concluded that the prospects of successfully 
holding the neighbour responsible were poor. I cant say that thats an unfair conclusion for 
Highway to make.
Ive thought about everything Ms SF and Highway have said regarding this, but Im satisfied 
Highway has taken everything into consideration and I dont think its decision to not pursue 
the neighbour was unreasonable in this case.
Delay in settling the claim
I need to first explain that this service is only able to consider the impact this has had on an 
eligible complainant. In this case, the policyholder was the late Mrs F and Im conscious 
Mrs F was also the property owner at time of the incident. So the policy was taken out for 
Mrs Fs benefit and this means I can only consider the impact this has had on the estate of 
Mrs F.
I do not dispute that this claim, and the length of time its taken to consider it, has had a 
profound impact on Ms SF. I can only imagine how stressful it must have been to experience 
the incident itself and to have had to live in the property in its damaged state throughout this 
time. And I naturally sympathise with the situation she, and the other executors, have found 
themselves in. But, as I said, she was not a party to the insurance policy as the contract was 
in Mrs Fs sole name. Neither Ms SF, nor the other executors, are eligible complainants 
under our rules. So I cant take the impact this matter has had on them into consideration. 
However, as I said, I can take into account the impact this has had on Mrs Fs estate. But, in 
thinking about that, the estate in itself cannot be distressed. So I cant require Highway to 
pay compensation for any distress the delays have caused. But I can think about whether 
the estate has lost out financially.
Due to the extent of damage to the property, this was not a straightforward claim to resolve. 
That said, Im conscious that it took around eight months before Highway made a decision to not cover the damage to the parapet and no work was carried out on the property by the 
time Ms SF referred this complaint to this service. Regardless of the complexity of the claim, 
I think this was too long and I think decision could and should have been made on this claim 
sooner.
Im also conscious that Highway has said it wouldnt carry out the rest of the work on the 
property until the parapet is replaced. Ive thought about whether this is fair and, if not, 
whether this has impacted the estate. Highway has explained that the most logical way of 
completing a repair such as the one required was to start from the top of the property and 
work down. I dont think this is unreasonable. However, Highway has also confirmed Ms SF 
has now arranged and paid for the parapet wall to be repaired herself and I understand the  
total repairs are nearly complete. And I havent seen anything to show that the estate has 
lost out financially because of any possible delays  both in the initial handling of the claim 
and also in requiring Ms SF to replace the parapet first. So even if I think it was unfair for 
Highway to delay carrying the repairs it was required to arrange  which I dont  I couldnt 
require Highway to pay any compensation for this.
I appreciate Ms SF feels strongly about whats happened. But, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont think Highway is required to pay anything more than it has already agreed to 
do.
Highway responded to accept my provisional decision. Ms SF contacted us and queried 
whether Id read the councils and surveyors report. She also said she had an eye witness 
which had said the damage was caused by her neighbours section of the parapet.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ms SF has referred to the statements by the council and surveyor. But I had 
considered these as part of my considerations before issuing my decision. However, as I 
said in my provisional decision, I think the report carried out by the surveyor before the event 
is the most persuasive evidence of whats likely to have happened as it was a review of the 
wall immediately before it collapsed. And the surveyor said it is evident that the parapet wall 
excessive leans away from the building. This is not only within [Mrs Fs neighbours] building 
but also it continues into [Mrs Fs] building. I do not dispute that Mrs Fs neighbours section 
of the parapet wall  the surveyor may have been in a worse state than Mrs Fs. But Im 
satisfied that Mrs Fs section was also clearly suffering from wear and tear. And Im satisfied 
that it was fair for LV to say that this was the cause of the failure as opposed to accidental 
damage. So, while I understand Ms SFs additional comments, Im still satisfied that LVs 
decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this particular case.
Neither party has made any further comments about the other comments I made in my 
provisional decision. So I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached 
before. So I dont uphold this complaint for all the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms SF on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.  
Guy MitchellOmbudsman