DRN-3658933
The complaint
Mr R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited registered a Cifas marker 
against him without due cause. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr R was approved for a credit card account with American Express. The 
account required him to repay any outstanding balance in full each month. Shortly after 
opening the account Mr R used the card to make purchases, charging over £6,500 to the 
account. 
Later in June 2019, American Express noticed that Mr R was making what appeared to be 
largely business-related transactions in the form of goods from a food and drink wholesalers. 
They also noted that he had made a payment to his own company in the shop they said he 
owned, which gave them cause for concern as they thought this company had been 
dissolved at the time. They conducted a review of his account, and asked him about this 
payment, his general account spending and to provide evidence that he had the funds to pay 
them what was due. Mr R explained the transactions were for his wifes business, not his 
own. American Express say he accepted he did make a payment to her business too. 
In August 2019, Mr R spoke to American Express to inform them he was travelling so could 
not make his payments on time, so would send them £1,000 each week. However, he did 
not do so. After three months with no payments made towards his account, and no evidence 
to show how Mr R would be able to repay what he owed, American Express took the 
decision to close his account, and load him to Cifas for evasion of payment. 
Mr R said that in October 2020 his bank accounts were closed and banking facilities 
terminated so he contacted Cifas, and discovered that American Express had loaded the 
marker against him. He complained to American Express, who did not think they had made 
any errors in loading Mr R to Cifas. 
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so he came to our service. He complained that, in summary: 
He had disclosed earlier that the card would be used for purchases, and felt the 
payments in the wholesalers and to his wifes business were with the permission of 
American Express. 
He never had any intention to defraud any financial organisation. 
He had never used the card in a company that was dissolved  his wife had taken 
over the shop some years prior to the transaction. 
American Express had branded him a fraudster and refused to correct it, which has 
led to a detrimental impact on his life and well-being. 
His wife had also had her accounts closed as a result of this. 
He accepts he owes this debt and had been making payments towards it of £500 per 
month. He intends to clear the debt, but he was unable to continue making payments 
as he did not have any banking facilities due to the Cifas marker. 
He is of good character and has been a reliable customer to financial institutions for 
over 30 years. 
He had intended to repay his balance in full but he then had financial problems. At 
the time, his cash and carry business had closed down, he could not pay for his 
mortgage and struggled with money. He said he called American Express to set up a 
direct debit for the repayments and it agreed it would be £500 per month. After some 
time, he could not afford this so they agreed to reduce the payments to £250 per 
month. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and didnt recommend that Mr Rs 
complaint be upheld. This is because they said the evidence of financial difficulties Mr R 
provided all related to the period after the Cifas marker had been loaded, not the time of the 
missed payments. And so, given that he had failed to make payments towards his account 
despite the fact the terms and conditions of the account required him to repay in full each 
month, the evidential bar for the Cifas marker had been met. 
Mr R remained dissatisfied  and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I will explain why. 
The type of Cifas marker that American Express applied is for misuse of facility for evasion 
of payment  relating to Mr R utilising credit balance without the means or intention to repay 
it. In order to file such a marker, American Express are not required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr R is guilty of a fraud or financial crime. But it must show that there 
are reasonable grounds that amounted to more than mere suspicion or concern. Cifas 
guidance at the time said: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So the relevant finding I need to make is whether I think American Express have sufficient 
evidence to conclude that Mr R evaded payment, and was deliberately dishonest in doing 
so, such that they would be able to escalate their concerns to Cifas. I do think American 
Express were entitled to do so, Ill explain why. 
Mr R took out the account which had express terms that said he had to repay the balance in 
full at the end of each month. Mr R made numerous transactions on his account, and yet 
failed to make any payments for the first three months  which is when American Express 
made their decision to refer him to Cifas. He did not make any payments for another two 
months after this decision either. American Express did write to him to let him know about 
what he owed, and when he was to pay it. He failed to do so. He was in communication with 
American Express during this period and although he indicated he would pay £1,000 per 
week, he did not tell them he was in financial difficulty  and he provided assurances that he 
would repay the debt and that he was able to do so. He still did not make any payments 
towards his account. Mr R has not been able to provide any clear evidence to show that he 
was in financial difficulties at the time of these missed payments such that he could not 
repay what was owed. So, having considered all of this I do think it was fair and reasonable 
to register him with Cifas. 
I am sorry as I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, and I was sorry to read 
of the difficulties Mr R has been having as a result of the Cifas marker, but I cannot say that 
American Express acted outside of the Cifas rules. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and will not require American Express Services Europe 
Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman