DRN-4272544
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very 
handled her account. 
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties so I will cover these briefly and focus on 
the reasons for my findings.
Miss R is unhappy with how Shop Direct has administered her home shopping account. 
Particularly how it has not refunded her for a laptop she says was not delivered and which 
she says it promised to credit her for and for an item she says she was double charged for in 
error. She adds that the address Shop Direct holds for her was changed without her 
permission and led to items of post not being received. 
Our investigator looked into these issues and concluded that Shop Direct was not acting 
unfairly in charging Miss R for the items she said she didnt get. She also concluded that 
Shop Direct had not made a mistake in respect of the address it recorded for Miss R.
Miss R has continued to dispute the matter so it has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has complained about several things to Shop Direct in addition to the things I will be 
covering in this decision. However, our investigator concluded that these are not within the 
jurisdiction of this service as they were brought too late. I have issued a separate jurisdiction 
decision explaining why I am not covering those issues here. Miss R has also raised some 
things at a later stage which she doesnt appear to have complained to Shop Direct about 
yet (such as how it handled details of her health challenges)  so I wont be considering that 
here.
Where matters are unclear (as they are in respect of certain issues here) I decide what is fair 
and reasonable based on the balance of probabilities.
For clarity, the complaint points I am considering here relate to:
a credit for a laptop she ordered in May 2018 which she says she didnt receive as 
promised and a games console she says she has been charged twice for;
her address being changed from the previous address (which I will refer to as JC) to 
a different address which she doesnt live at (which I will refer to as CR) resulting in 
her not receiving items of post in connection with her Shop Direct account.
Laptop and games console
It wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Shop Direct to charge Miss R for goods which she 
didnt receive and which it promised to credit her for. But I dont think there is persuasive 
evidence that the laptop she ordered didnt arrive or that Shop Direct agreed to credit her.
From what I understand the order was put through in 2018 for despatch to the address JC 
which Shop Direct have on file. Miss R does not dispute that this is the correct address but 
she says the laptop was delivered to another flat in her block.
The difficulty here is there is no persuasive evidence to show that Miss R reported this 
matter at the time. I know Miss R has suggested she reported it to Shop Direct by phone but 
if that were the case it seems likely it would likely have been logged in a similar way to other 
disputes Miss R had raised. In this case there appears to be nothing on the account notes. 
Miss R appears to have not chased the matter until around November 2022 based on the 
record which Shop Direct holds - but I would normally have expected to see this chased 
much sooner considering the high value of the goods. I understand Miss R has explained 
why she didnt do this (relating to her health difficulties)  but I dont think this in itself means 
I can conclude the goods were not received. Because of the passage of time  it is much 
harder to investigate this now. Overall, there is not persuasive evidence that the goods 
werent received.
I also note that Miss R has pointed to a letter from October 2020 which she says is from 
Shop Direct where it agrees to refund her for the laptop. However, Shop Direct has said that 
this letter has not come from it. It points out several reasons this is the case including:
it is addressed to JC which wasnt the address it had on the system at the time;
the formatting and content is not in line with its official letters;
it has no record of this letter on its system  unlike other letters it has sent to her
Shop Direct has provided persuasive and credible information in support of the claims it has 
made above including the system records it holds and an explanation of why the formatting 
and content of the letter isnt in line with its usual process.
I also note that the letter appears to overturn previous decisions that Shop Direct made in 
previous complaint responses  which while possible  is unexpected in the context here. 
Considering this, and also the passage of time between when the letter was allegedly 
received and when Miss R has followed it up I dont consider it fair and reasonable to rely on 
this as a reason for telling Shop Direct to credit her with a refund for the laptop.
Overall, I am not persuaded that in the particular circumstances here it would be fair and 
reasonable to direct Shop Direct to credit Miss R for a refund in respect of the laptop. 
There is another issue with a games console order which Miss R has raised. Shop Direct 
has clarified this order was made in 2019. Miss R says she has been billed twice with 
different prices. But Shop Direct explained that these charges are not for the same item. The 
explanation appears credible and the amounts are different (£24.99 and £249.99). I also 
note the passage of time from the order to this being raised also makes it difficult to 
conclude that Miss R is due a refund here. Overall, I am unable to fairly conclude Miss R has 
been billed twice for the same item  so I dont think Shop Direct should refund her.
Address change
Miss R says that Shop Direct changed her address from JC to CR without her permission. Which resulted in items of post including late payment reminders and arrears letters going to 
the wrong place.
My starting point here is that CR is not an address that Miss R doesnt have a connection 
with  it appears she rents the property out. So it is not necessarily an address that made no 
sense for her to have changed the account record to. 
I know Miss R says she thought she changed her address to CR for a particular order (for a 
bed). But Shop Direct has system notes showing that CR was Miss Rs main address on its 
system from October 2019 until May 2023 so all correspondence would be directed there. It 
says this change was made through Miss Rs online account and in order for this to have 
occurred Miss R had to log in to her online account and change the personal details. 
Shop Direct explained that in order for Miss R to have continued to use the account and 
make orders (which it appears she did) she would have had to have logged in using the 
postcode for CR. So it seems likely that she was aware that the main account address on 
the system (rather than an address for a one off delivery as Miss R says) had been changed 
to CR. I also dont see persuasive information (such as system notes) showing Miss R told 
Shop Direct the address was incorrect prior to the change made on the system in May 2023. 
I know Miss R says she had conversations about it  but in light of the information here I am 
unable to conclude, on balance that this was the case.
I also note Shop Direct has sent us a couple of calls to show that Miss R was aware at the 
time of the address change in 2019. I note there is also a call recording of Miss R speaking 
to Shop Direct from November 2019 where during security she first gives JC as her address 
then when told that isnt correct gives CR is the address on her account but does not ask 
for it to be altered. Which suggests she was aware and had consented to the main account 
being registered to CR from an early stage. There is another call where during security Miss 
R gives CR as the address without being prompted. While I could go back to Shop Direct 
and see if they can find more calls from later dates I note that what we have already is 
inconsistent with Miss Rs testimony that she did not consent to/was not aware of her 
address being changed to CR in 2019. So I dont consider it likely that other call recordings 
will show her disputing this change in any event. 
For completeness I have noted that the final response letter Shop Direct sent Miss R in 
February 2023 was addressed to JC  however, I understand this was because she had 
referred the complaint using this address through a third party debt owner (who it appears 
traced Miss R to JC). Following this her address was updated on the Shop Direct system in 
May 2023. Overall, I dont find any of this information changes my finding above that Shop 
Direct did not make an error with the address change to CR. So it follows that I dont think it 
is fairly responsible for correspondence/items going to this address.
I am sorry to hear about the personal and health challenges Miss R has described to us. I 
know this complaint is important to her. If she has particular requirements going forward 
which Shop Direct or the third party which was passed the debt need to take into account 
she should raise these so that they can treat her positively and sympathetically. However 
after looking at the evidence available in respect of the specific complaint points I have dealt 
with here I am unable to fairly conclude that Shop Direct should credit Miss R for items on 
the account or pay compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman