DRN-4013459
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not inform him (by push 
notification) about retail offers that were available on his 123 Account. Mr E says that this 
meant he missed out earning £37 in cashback on some purchases that he made.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already and they did not think the 
complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that for me to recommend an award of compensation, I would need 
to be satisfied that Santander has done something wrong.
So with this in mind, the first thing I considered is whether Santander was obliged to send all 
retail offers to Mr E, via push notification.
The terms and conditions of the retail offers says the following:
3. Offers
3.1. We will notify you about your offers through different channels, such us: email,
Online and Mobile Banking or push notifications.
So whilst Santander does say some offers may be sent via push notification, I cant see that 
there was any guarantee that a particular offer would be sent by that particular method. So in 
this instance, I am satisfied that there was no obligation for Santander to send every retail 
offer to Mr E by push notification.
I have next considered whether the offers in question were listed at all, as per the terms and 
conditions set out above. In this instance, it seems as if the offers in question were listed via 
alternative methods to a push notification, as Mr E has indicated that he activated them the 
day after the purchases were made. So in relation to this I cant say that Santander has done 
anything wrong. On the contrary it appears to be the case that Santander did issue 
notifications about the offers on its website and its simply the case that Mr E unfortunately 
did not see them until after hed already made a payment to the relevant retailers. As 
frustrating as that may be for Mr E, I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for that.
Finally, I have considered whether Santander should have paid Mr E the cashback in 
question. The terms and conditions of the Retail offers say the following
4. Using Retailer Offers
4.1. To use the Retailer Offers you must:
4.1.1. Click on an offer to activate it, and see the Offer Terms - please note there are no 
vouchers and coupons to print.
4.1.2. Once the offer has been activated, pay using any of your Santander debit or credit 
cards in line with the Offer Terms.
In this instance Mr E says that he did not activate the offers in question until after the 
purchases were made. So the payments that he made did not meet the conditions that were 
required to obtain cashback and therefore him not being paid any cash back for those 
payments is not an error on Santanders part.
Mr E has indicated that he was told in branch that he might receive the cashback anyway as 
the purchases were made during the same payment period. It may well be the case that in 
some instances, this could happen, but there was no obligation for Santander to do this. So I 
cant say that it made an error in not paying the cashback.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Santander 
UK Plc. This means that Santander UK Plc is not required to pay Mr S any of the cash back 
that he has requested.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman