DRN-3951992
The complaint
Miss Z complains that LRUK (Retail) Limited trading as La Redoute (LR) unfairly closed her 
account and provided poor service to her. 
What happened
Miss Z entered a credit agreement with LR in approximately 2002 for the purchase of LR 
goods. In around 2020 Miss Z began to experience problems with the delivery of some of the 
items shed ordered and contacted LR on a number of occasions during 2020, 2021 and 
2022 about this. 
In September 2022 LR told Miss Z that theyd no longer accept orders from her. Miss Z 
complained to LR about this, and the service shed received in a phone call in September 
2022. 
LR sent Miss Z their final response to her complaint in October 2022. They apologised for 
the service Miss Z had received on the phone call. They said the closure of the account was 
appropriate as they were unable to meet Miss Zs expectations. LR removed an outstanding 
balance of £274.32 from Miss Zs account as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with this, Miss Z brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said LR 
had unfairly closed her account without her permission or offering any other options. Miss Z 
said she was concerned about the impact this might have on her credit file, she remained 
unhappy with the service shed received over the phone, and she didnt think her concerns 
about the delivery service had been properly investigated. 
Our investigator gave her view that LR were able to choose who they conducted business 
with, and the closure of Miss Zs account was within the terms and conditions of the credit 
agreement. She said Miss Z had received poor service over the phone, but LR had taken 
steps to put this right. She didnt think LR needed to take any further action. 
Miss Z didnt agree, she said she didnt think LR had done enough to investigate her 
concerns about the delivery company. Our investigator said we couldnt look at a complaint 
about the delivery company as they were a separate business, but she thought LR had 
investigated these issues, and looked to provide solutions, so she didnt think they needed to 
do anything more. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Z raised a number of issues regarding the delivery supplier used by LR. The delivery 
supplier is a separate business to LR and so I cant consider a complaint about them, or their 
conduct. 
Ive seen evidence that LR investigated Miss Zs concerns and looked to put solutions in 
place in order to resolve the issues Miss Z was reporting. So, Im satisfied that they took 
appropriate steps to ensure that they could continue to deliver items as Miss Z expected. 
Ultimately, LR decided that they couldnt meet Miss Zs expectations, and made the decision 
to close her account. Miss Z said they shouldnt have done this without her permission or 
offering other options. 
It is not my role to tell LR or any credit provider whom they must conduct business with, and 
if they must continue to provide credit facilities. This is a commercial decision for LR to 
make. What I have considered is whether LR acted fairly when deciding to close Miss Zs 
account. 
The credit agreement between Miss Z and LR sets out that LR can refuse any application 
for credit in the placing of further orders for catalogue goods at any time. 
The agreement doesnt require LR to give notice for the refusal to accept orders, nor do they 
need to give a reason for refusing to accept orders. 
So, Im satisfied that LR acted fairly and in line with the agreement when refusing to accept 
any further orders from Miss Z. In refusing orders, Miss Z would no longer be able to use the 
credit agreement with LR, and so Im satisfied that they acted fairly in closing her account, 
and I wont be asking them to reopen it. 
Its not disputed that LR provided poor service to Miss Z on the phone. Theyve apologised 
for this. LR have also cleared Miss Zs outstanding balance of £274.32 and Im satisfied that 
this fairly compensates her for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss Z has said shes concerned about the effect the closure of the agreement will have on 
her credit file. LR have told this service that the account has been marked as settled on Miss 
Zs credit file. I havent seen any evidence of a negative impact on Miss Zs credit file. If she 
remains unhappy with the recording on the account on her credit file, Miss Z may wish to 
raise this with LR for them to investigate. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman