DRN-4293580
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited declined a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to LV includes its agents and representatives.
Mr W has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr W bought his property in 2010 and had a conservatory added later that year. He 
got in touch with LV in 2022 when he discovered a problem with it.
LV appointed a loss adjuster to look into it. They carried out investigations and 
declined the claim. They said, in summary:
oThe conservatory had been damaged by subsidence as a result clay 
shrinkage due to the moisture demand of the nearby Oak tree.
oThe foundation is 500mm deep, with Oak roots found to a depth of 1,300mm.
oThe main house foundation is 1,200mm deep, with no roots below it.
oThe Oak tree was in place before the conservatory was built, so the 
foundation should have been designed to accommodate it.
oThe conservatory foundation is inadequate judged against the standards at 
the time of construction, as a minimum foundation depth of 1,000mm  
without nearby vegetation  would be expected.
oThis amounts to faulty design  which isnt covered by the policy.
Mr W didnt think this was fair and complained. In summary, he said:
oThe structure had been built by a reputable and professional conservatory 
company, who he had every reason to trust.
oUntil 2022, he had no way of knowing there might be a problem.
oIts for this kind of unexpected event that he took out insurance with LV.
oThe inadequacy of the foundation hadnt been independently verified.
oIt had taken from October 2022 to May 2023 to decline the claim.
oIn December 2022, hed asked for a full copy of his policy wording  but he 
hadnt received it.
Our investigator thought LV had acted fairly. She thought it had shown why the 
conservatory foundation was faulty and it was therefore entitled to decline the claim.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied LV has acted fairly, for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Having done so, Im satisfied LV has acted fairly, for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The scope of this complaint is LVs decision to decline the claim, and the way it 
handled it, including Mr Ws request for a copy of the policy wording.
Mr W has more recently raised concerns about LVs 2023 renewal documents and its 
following communication. Thats outside the scope of this complaint and Mr W is 
aware he can take the matter up separately with LV if he wishes. So I wont consider 
it as part of this complaint.
All insurance policies will be made up of terms and conditions. Most home insurance 
policies are like Mr Ws  they cover damage caused in certain ways only, such as 
damage by fire or theft. But it wont cover all damage caused in those ways. The 
policy will contain a number of exclusions. For example, a policy might cover theft 
generally  but not when the home has been unoccupied for a period of time.
Theres nothing unfair about this approach in principle because insurers are entitled 
to choose what they will and wont cover. But they must present those terms clearly 
and apply them fairly.
Relevant to this case, the policy covers damage caused by subsidence, subject to a 
number of exclusions. The one LV is relying says, in summary, that damage caused 
by faulty design isnt covered. This is a very common policy exclusion. I think some 
variation of it will likely be found in most, if not all, home insurance policies. I dont 
find it to be a fundamentally unfair exclusion.
LV accepts the conservatory has been damaged by subsidence. But its declined the 
claim because it says this was the result of faulty design. The onus is on LV to show 
it would be fair to rely on that exclusion in order to decline the claim.
The loss adjuster is a chartered structural and civil engineer. And they relied on 
investigations to show the foundation depths, soil types, and root identification. I 
havent seen any evidence to challenge the investigation results or their professional 
opinion, so I have no reason to doubt it.
When the conservatory was built in 2010, it wasnt subject to Building Regulation. But 
I would nonetheless expect it to be built to an appropriate standard, such that it was 
likely to stand the test of time. To do this, the builder should have taken into account 
the best practice of the time and the specific site conditions to make a judgement call 
about the design of the foundation.
The loss adjuster referred to British Standards for foundation design. Im satisfied 
these Standards represent independent, reputable guidance on best practice for 
foundation design. In summary, the relevant parts urge caution when building a 
foundation on shrinkable clay, particularly where vegetation is likely to influence ground movement. It advises the builder to design the foundation to take this 
account, taking it deeper than the level where appreciable movement is likely.
The Standards suggest a minimum depth of 900mm  and potentially deeper where 
vegetation is nearby. In this case, a mature Oak tree was nearby the conservatory at 
the time of construction, so it should have been recognised as a significant factor 
when designing the foundation. That means a depth greater than 900mm would have 
been reasonable, possibly a depth in line with the main house. Had that been the 
case, its unlikely there would have been any subsidence movement given the depth 
of the Oak roots found.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied LV has shown the foundation design was faulty 
 and had it been reasonable, its unlikely subsidence would have occurred.
Mr W has said he trusted the builder to design the foundation to a reasonable depth, 
he had no way of knowing the builder hadnt done so, and its therefore unfair to 
effectively hold this problem against him. I understand why hes making this point and 
theres no suggestion Mr W himself is at fault or has acted unreasonably whatsoever.
However, the policy excludes faulty design  and thats whats caused the damage. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr W received credible reassurance that the 
conservatory was built to an appropriate standard, for example, Building Control 
approval or similar, that might make me think it would be unfair for LV to rely on the 
exclusion. So Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for it to do so.
Looking back over the history of the claim, it took longer to reach a conclusion than 
Id usually expect  but not significantly so. And I think the loss adjuster was clear 
from an early stage that they had concerns about the foundation depth  and this 
may mean the claim wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Whilst it would have been preferable for the claim to have progressed more promptly, 
overall, I dont think LV handled the claim unreasonably or unfairly.
I think Mr W feels let down by LVs complaint process. It acknowledged his complaint 
but didnt provide a response. Complaint handling in isolation isnt something I have 
the power to consider. So I cant make a finding about it. But I can understand why 
Mr W would have expected LV to act in line with its regulatory obligations  and 
would have been disappointed when it didnt. Nonetheless, he was able to have his 
complaint considered by this Service.
Part of Mr Ws complaint is that he asked for a full copy of his policy from LV  and it 
didnt reply to him or provide what he asked for.
I havent seen any evidence to show LV responded to Mr Ws request. So, again, I 
can understand why he raised his point and felt LVs communication was lacking.
Mr Ws policy is made up of the policy wording  a 19 page document  and the 
policy schedule  a 14 page document. Together they make up the contract of 
insurance and set out the terms and conditions in full. Its clear Mr W has both of 
these documents because he provided them to this Service when setting up his 
complaint. So he had access to the full contract of insurance.
However, I doubt Mr W was aware of that, otherwise he wouldnt have asked for a full 
copy of his policy. And, regardless, Id expect LV to respond to him promptly to explain he already had the relevant documents and/or resend the documents. Its 
disappointing that it didnt do so. But as Mr W had the documents, and the lack of 
response to him had no bearing on the claim, I dont think Mr W has been 
disadvantaged or impacted significantly enough to warrant compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman