DRN-4114528
The complaint
Mr F complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on his landlords 
insurance policy. 
For ease of reading, any reference to Aviva also includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr F owns a property which he rents out. The property had a leak, so he contacted Aviva to 
make a claim. The leak was discovered to be coming from the bathroom which needed to be 
removed to complete the repair. As the property only has one bathroom it would make it 
uninhabitable.
Aviva said it could either provide alternative accommodation for Mr Fs tenants or provide a 
bathroom pod to use while the works were completed. Mr Fs tenants chose to remain in the 
property and so Aviva provided a bathroom pod. As the property was undergoing work Mr F 
agreed a 50% reduction in rent for his tenants. 
Mr F initially reported the claim in January 2022 and work at the property didnt start until late 
July 2022. As the work was taking longer than expected Mr F complained to Aviva in 
September 2022. He said there had been poor claim handling and referred to incorrect 
information being given, the length of time the claim was taking and how long the repair was 
taking. Mr F let Aviva know he was losing rent and asked it to cover his lost rent. 
Aviva reviewed the complaint and upheld it in part. It agreed the claim had been poorly 
handled and initially offered £500 compensation. Aviva declined Mr Fs claim for loss of rent 
as it said the policy didnt cover it as a bathroom pod had been installed. Mr F didnt agree 
so Aviva increased its offer to £600. Mr F still didnt agree and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found that loss of rent only applied if the 
property wasnt habitable. And as Aviva had installed a bathroom pod, he didnt think Mr Fs 
loss of rent was covered by the policy. Our Investigator thought the £600 offered was fair 
and reasonable compensation for the poor claim handling and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr F didnt agree, he said the policy didnt mention anything about a bathroom 
pod and thought his claim for loss of rent should be covered. He also said if it wasnt then, 
due to the delay Aviva should cover his lost rent. 
As Mr F didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When issuing my decision, I would like to clarify that Im only considering whats happened 
up until Aviva issued its final response letter in September 2022. Concerns about anything 
that happened after that date would need to be raised as a separate complaint.  
When dealing with a claim Aviva should do so promptly. Its clear from the length of time 
since the claim was reported and the work starting that this didnt happen. Aviva has 
acknowledged this, and that it gave incorrect information, it offered Mr F £600 compensation. 
Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount for the delays and poor claim handling. Im 
therefore not going to direct it to pay anymore. 
Mr F has also raised concerns about the loss of rent. The terms and conditions of Mr Fs 
policy covers him for loss of rent in certain circumstances. The policy says: 
If the home is damaged by any cause covered under The Buildings, cover sections 
numbered 1 to 10, and as a result it cannot be lived in, we will pay any ground rent you still 
have to pay for up to two years. 
We will also pay: 
a) rent payable to you; or 
b) any reasonable additional accommodation expenses for you and your domestic animals;
Ive therefore looked at whether Aviva is applying this term fairly. I can see Aviva has 
provided a bathroom pod to enable the property to still be lived in. And this was accepted by 
Mr F and the tenants. Im therefore satisfied that under the terms of the policy Mr Fs loss of 
rent isnt covered. 
If Aviva has delayed the claim unreasonably then it might be appropriate to cover Mr Fs loss 
of rent for the delays it caused. However, when looking at the timeline up until the final 
response was issued, Im not persuaded Aviva needs to do more. I say that because I note 
the work started in July 2022 and the bathroom was ripped out in August and the bathroom 
pod installed then, albeit late. 
I can also see from the claim notes that Mr Fs property has lime plaster which takes longer 
to dry, the claim notes say this could take up to six months. This means the next stage of the 
repair work is unable to be started until the plaster has dried. Therefore, when considering 
Avivas final response was issued in September and the work started the month before, Im 
not persuaded thats an unreasonable time frame when taking into account the plaster drying 
time. However, if there are delays after this time then they would need to be raised 
separately if Mr F thinks Aviva has delayed the claim after the date of its final response 
letter.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited 
needs to pay Mr F £600 for distress and inconvenience if not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman