DRN-1916711
The complaint
Mrs F says Allianz Insurance Plc has not fairly compensated her for a mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to her with a store card.
What happened
Mrs F complained to Allianz about PPI added to her store card account. Mrs F sent Allianz 
an old statement from May 1992 which showed her account had a balance of £175.66 and 
she was charged a PPI premium of £1.12.
Allianz agreed to uphold Mrs Fs complaint, but it no longer held any records of Mrs Fs 
account.
So when calculating the compensation it owed Mrs F it made some assumptions.
Allianz assumed the account and PPI began in June 1990, two years before the statement. 
And it assumed the account and PPI ended in May 1992 the same date as the statement.
Allianz also made assumptions about how Mrs F may have used her store card during the 
months when it didnt have any data. To do this it referred to historical records it holds for 
how other consumers used their store cards during this period.
Using this method Allianz estimated that Mrs F would have been charged PPI premiums of 
£17.82 between June 1990 and May 1992.  It offered to refund these premiums together 
with interest Mrs F would have been charged because of the PPI premiums. It also offered 
compensatory interest for the time Mrs F had been out of pocket. In total Allianz offered    
Mrs F £59.49.
Mrs F didnt agree with Allianzs offer, she felt sure shed held her card for longer and been 
charged more than £17.82. Mrs F asked this service to step in. And Mrs F sent us various 
banks statements and other evidence including a receipt from August 1992 that showed the 
store card was still being used then.
An adjudicator from this service wrote to Allianz. They agreed that Allianz had made fair 
assumptions when estimating how Mrs F used her card during the time it had no data.
But our adjudicator didnt think it was fair for Allianz to assume Mrs Fs account and PPI 
were closed in May 1992. The evidence from the receipt showed Mrs Fs account was open 
and in use in August 1992.
The adjudicator thought Allianz should recalculate its offer assuming Mrs Fs account was 
opened in June 1990 and ran until June 1994 with the May 1992 statement as the midpoint.
Allianz has disagreed with this approach but offered to instead recalculate its offer to August 
1992, the date of the receipt provided by Mrs F. Mrs F did not agree to this offer so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mrs F. Instead Ive looked at whether Allianzs 
offer of compensation is fair.
When a business mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a store card, wed expect Allianz to refund the PPI 
premiums and any card interest or associated charges caused by the PPI. Wed also expect 
Allianz to compensate the consumer for any periods when theyd been out of pocket as a 
result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case there is very limited information about the PPI. In particular how much Mrs B 
paid for the policy. Allianz does not hold any statement data for this store card. That isnt 
surprising as businesses are not required to hold information indefinitely. The only statement 
available is the one supplied by Mrs F dated May 1992 In cases like this I would expect 
Allianz to make reasonable assumptions to estimate the premiums paid by Mrs F.
Allianz has used historical data from other consumers accounts to make assumptions about 
how Mrs F might have used her card. I am aware Mrs F has told us the May 1992 statement 
was unusually low but in the absence of any other statements I think this is a fair approach 
for Allianz to take.
However I dont think Allianzs approach to assume Mrs F closed her account in August 
1992 is fair. I dont think it is reasonable for Allianz to expect Mrs F to have retained 
statements indefinitely, just as I dont think it is reasonable to expect Allianz to retain records 
forever. 
Allianz has offered to recalculate its offer up to August 1992 which is the last date there is 
evidence the account was open. Allianz thinks it is reasonable to assume Mrs F closed her 
account after that date. But I dont think that is fair. I say this for the same reason I wouldnt 
think it fair to assume the account was open, with PPI being charged, right up until the date 
Allianz purged the account records from its systems. 
In the absence of any other persuasive evidence I think a  fair approach would be to assume 
the account was opened two years before the statement supplied by Mrs F and closed two 
years after, with PPI having been charged during that period.
Putting things right
Allianz should re-calculate its offer to Mrs F. In doing so it should assume she opened her 
store card account in June 1990 and closed it in June 1994. Allianz should assume the PPI 
policy was active throughout. Allianz should make reasonable assumptions about Mrs Fs 
use of the account and PPI premiums charged. Having done so Allianz should: A. Allianz should find out how much Mrs F would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Allianz should then refund the difference between what Mrs F owed when she closed 
her account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Allianz can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount they owe her. 
B. Allianz should add simple interest at 8% simple a year (15% before April 1993) on the 
difference between what Mrs F wouldve owed when she closed her account from when 
she closed it until she gets the refund.
C. If  when Allianz works out what Mrs F would have owed each month without PPI     
Mrs F paid more than enough to clear her balance, Allianz should also pay simple 
interest at 8% a year (15% before April 1993) on the extra Mrs F paid. And they should 
carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs F wouldve owed Allianz something on 
her store card.
D. Allianz should tell Mrs F what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Allianz to take off tax from this interest. Allianz must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mrs F compensation as set 
out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman