DRN-3155627
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that Short Term Finance Limited (STFL) lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr W was approved for 28 loans, the first being for £100 and likely approved in 2014 but 
STFL cannot provide details of it. The last two were approved for Mr W on the same day  
25 July 2019  for a combined amount of £1,500. 
Our adjudicator set out the loan table in his letter of opinion and in that letter he explained 
why he thought that STFL should put things right for Mr W for loans 6 to 28. He gave his 
reasons which were that from loan six STFL should reasonably have questioned whether 
continuing to offer further loans to a customer who appeared to have become reliant on this 
form of lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
STFL disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. Mr Ws representative acknowledged 
receipt of it. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr W has not given any specific response to the adjudicators view or its outcome apart from 
an acknowledgement from his representative. And so, I take it from that he doesnt disagree 
with it and loans 1 to 5 are not disputed. Therefore, I have not reviewed them. 
 
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
STFL was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
STFL says it complied with regulations surrounding the loan approvals. The complaint has 
reached my desk to resolve and Ive reviewed all that STFL has said in reaching this 
decision.
And STFL has referred to the Claim Audit Form completed by Mr W for his representative 
and submitted as part of his complaint. STFL says that there are discrepancies between 
what he had told it when he applied for his loans and what the Claim Audit Form states. 
I agree that it is not a document which can be relied on for accuracy of figures as the 
information has not been verified by other financial documents. But Mr W does indicate here 
that he had a lot of other debt and I have used information we have about Mr W to check 
this. From this cross-referencing from information about other complaints, I know that he had 
multiple loans with multiple lenders from November 2002 to July 2019 at least. He often had 
several loans at once with one lender and was using different loan companies at the same 
time. So, I am satisfied that Mr W had a lot of debt running at the same time as the loans he 
had with STFL. 
I have looked at the overall pattern of STFLs lending history with Mr W with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which STFL should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so STFL ought to have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans.
 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6 and 
I say this because, by loan 6, he had been borrowing from STFL for at least a year and the 
borrowing had continued to increase. For example, loan 1 was for £100 and loan six was for 
£400. Mr Ws borrowing and repayment history also shows that a pattern of quick succession had 
clearly formed, with each new loan being taken on the same day the previous loan was 
repaid. This is something that continued for most of the rest of the lending relationship. And 
it started to develop that Mr W took loans when earlier ones had not been repaid. And then it 
escalated further to be occasions when Mr W took two loans in one day. 
The amounts being borrowed continued to increase  up to £1,100 and only decreased 
when the consumer already had another loan outstanding, so they were increasing his 
indebtedness.
Overall, I dont think that Mr W was making any real inroads to the amount he owed STFL. 
Loans 27 and 28  being the last two loans  were taken on 27 July 2019 which was 5 years 
since the first loan and many times more. Loan 1 was for £100 and loans 27 and 28 
combined were for £1,500 and remain outstanding. Mr W had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service a debt to STFL over an extended period.
I think that Mr W lost out because STFL continued to provide credit to him from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans over the five year period Mr W was in debt was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
I am upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 28 and STFL should put things right for Mr W.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STFL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr W in a 
compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
STFL shouldnt have given Mr W loans six onwards. If STFL has sold the outstanding debts 
it should buy these back if able to do so and then take the following steps. If STFL is not able 
to buy the debts back then STFL should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
A) STFL should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
STFL have already refunded.
B) STFL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) STFL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr W having made 
overpayments then STFL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. STFL should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans . If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
STFL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. STFL shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal STFL have already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing for loans six onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so STFL should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ws 
credit file. 
STFL do not have to remove loans 27 and 28 from Mr Ws credit file until these have been 
repaid, but STFL should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires STFL to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr W 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I direct that Short Term 
Finance Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman