DRN-2272124
The complaint
Mr L complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IIS) failed to act on his 
instructions to close his accounts and transfer his investments.
What happened
Mr L held an account with IIS in his own name, and he is sole director of two companies 
which each had an account with IIS. He brings this complaint in his personal capacity, but 
also in his capacity as director of the two companies.
Mr L wrote to IIS on 14 October 2019 to instruct it to close his accounts. He asked for the 
investments to be transferred into paper certificates and any cash to be sent to him by 
cheque.
The details of what happened are well known to both parties, so Im not going to repeat them 
in detail here. But, in summary, IIS would not accept Mr Ls written instructions. It tried to 
contact him by email, direct message and phone. Mr L only wanted to communicate by post 
and sent IIS a copy of his passport and bank statements. But IIS said it needed him to either 
place the instructions through his online account or to phone to answer the required security 
questions.
Mr L escalated his complaint and explained that hed previously been a victim of fraud. 
The transfers finally took place around March 2020.
Mr L said he wanted to sell some investments in October 2019. By the time he received the 
share certificates, the prices had moved and he says IIS has caused him an overall loss of 
around £50,000.
IIS apologised. It waived its stock withdrawal fees and did not charge any service fees from 
October 2019. It also offered Mr L £60 to cover the cost of his calls, but Mr L returned this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought IIS had 
made some mistakes but that the fees it had waived fairly compensated Mr L for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr L didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ill explain the 
reasons why.
Mr L chose to open the investment accounts some years ago with a provider who sold its 
business to a third party. Later that third party sold the business to IIS. So I understand Mr L 
feels his investments were with IIS by default rather than by choice. But, in agreeing to 
transfer his investments to IIS, rather than transferring them to another provider of his 
choice, he agreed with IISs terms and conditions. 
IIS is essentially an online business and encourages its consumers to communicate through 
its online platform. It will also communicate by email and by phone. So I dont find it acted 
unreasonably when, on receipt of Mr Ls written instructions, it tried to phone him.
It should have left a voicemail message rather than sending a secure message as it should 
have been able to see that Mr L had not used its online service. And IIS has acknowledged 
that it should have written back to him sooner than it did.
Mr L hadnt contacted IIS when his email address changed, so IIS continued to email him 
using his old address.
Having considered this carefully, I dont think IIS acted unreasonably when it didnt act on 
Mr Ls written instructions. It hadnt had any contact with Mr L since it had inherited his 
accounts, Mr L was using an email address that wasnt recorded in IISs records, Mr L was 
asking to close his accounts which collectively were of considerable value, and IIS had not 
been able to verify his identity.
Mr L explained his reluctance to use the online platform, or to have a phone conversation 
about his accounts, was due to being a victim of fraud in the past. As soon as he made IIS 
aware of this, it acted quickly to satisfy itself that Mr Ls instructions were genuine and to 
transfer the shares and cash as hed instructed.
Mr L says he couldnt have given the instructions by phone because he wouldnt have been 
able to answer the security questions. Whilst I accept Mr L may not have set up any security 
questions with IIS, security questions are many and varied and Im not persuaded that Mr L 
would not have been able to proceed to give the instructions during a phone call.
There was nothing in Mr Ls communications with IIS to indicate that he needed or wanted to 
sell any shares. And, as I dont find IIS did anything wrong, I dont find it should compensate 
Mr L for any price movement.
IIS waived its service fees from 10 October 2019  round about the time Mr L sent his first 
letter asking to close the accounts. It also waived its stock transfer fees of £35 plus VAT per 
line of stock  a total of £840. I consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I dont underestimate the upset this has caused Mr L and I am not unsympathetic. And I can 
see how, as time went on, he became increasingly worried that hed never get his 
investments back. I think IIS may have been able to do more to try to resolve this at an 
earlier date  for example if it had left a voice message, rather than sending a secure 
message, on receipt of Mr Ls written instructions, or if it had written back to him more 
quickly. But I think the fees its waived fairly compensate Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman