DRN-1422102
 
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in January 2005.
Mr H says he was not given any details about the policy. He says he was made to feel like 
he had to have the insurance. He also adds he was not told it was optional. He thinks PPI 
was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Barclaycard says that the PPI policy was added online. Mr H says that it was added during a 
phone call with a representative from Barclaycard. I cant be sure what happened at the time 
of sale. But when I consider what I have in front of me including internal screen prints from 
Barclaycard, I think its more likely than not Mr H took out the credit card and PPI online. So I 
will proceed that this was the case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because Barclaycard has provided sample screen prints of what Mr 
H most likely saw when he applied for his card and PPI. I can see that Mr H would 
have seen PPI displayed as an optional requirement. So although i can't be sure 
what happened at the time of sale, I think it is more likely than not the case that Mr H 
was aware PPI was optional and he chose it.
 
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It did have to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
 
It is possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. Mr H told us that he was entitled to 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay and up to 3 months savings. I can see the policy would have paid more 
than his minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months if he couldnt work, 
providing a useful extra benefit at a difficult time. This would have been paid 
alongside his provisions and for longer so i think it would have been of use to him. He 
was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable.
 
So I think it unlikely Mr H would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy. This means 
Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But Barclays has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclaycard didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman