DRN-3079546
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Capquest Debt Recovery Limited pursuing him and getting a 
county court judgement (CCJ) for a debt which he says was taken out fraudulently.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit mail order account which was opened in late 2012 
and was sold to Capquest in late 2013.
Capquest wrote to Mr H and phoned him a number of times but got no response. In 2017, 
they got a CCJ.
In 2019, our service looked into Mr Hs allegation of fraud as part of a complaint against the 
original creditor. We found that this was Mr Hs account, based on evidence such as call 
recordings from the time, where hed identified himself as the accountholder and arranged 
the delivery of goods.
Mr H has now brought this complaint against Capquest. He maintains the account wasnt 
his, since there were goods which were delivered to a different address to his home address. 
He requested the credit agreement and statements. Hes also unhappy with the solicitors 
who dealt with the CCJ.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They sent 
Mr H a copy of the credit agreement and statements. They explained that our service could 
only look into what happened prior to the CCJ, and could only look at what Capquest did 
here rather than the original creditor or the solicitors. They found that Capquest had dealt 
with Mr Hs dispute appropriately and had sent the proper correspondence to his correct 
address over the years. They referred back to the previous case where wed found that this 
was Mr Hs account.
Mr H didnt agree. He reiterated this wasnt his account. He still felt Capquest were 
responsible for how it was opened, and still wanted us to consider what the solicitors had 
done. He felt Capquest hadnt done enough to get in touch with him, particularly by post or 
email. He asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should explain that were only able to consider complaints about regulated activities 
 such as collecting a debt under a credit agreement. But once a business gets a county 
court judgement, its no longer collecting a debt under a credit agreement  the agreement 
effectively merges into the judgement. Instead, the business can only attempt to recover the 
money by enforcing the judgement  and enforcing judgements is not a regulated activity. 
Further, were not generally able to make decisions about issues that have already been 
dealt with in court.
In this case, that means I cannot consider whether Capquest were right to get the CCJ or 
not, and I dont have the power to set aside the CCJ or adjust the balance. I can only really 
look at what happened before the CCJ. If Mr H would like to dispute the basis or balance of 
the CCJ, or apply to get it set aside, then he would normally need to speak to the County 
Court Business Centre.
Further, in a case against Capquest, I can only consider what Capquest did  not other 
businesses. So I cannot consider Mr Hs complaint points about the solicitors or the original 
creditor.
Mr H says this wasnt his account and it was opened fraudulently. We already looked into 
this in 2019, in Mr Hs complaint against the original creditor. So strictly speaking, I shouldnt 
really look at this again. But I will add my comments, as I dont think it would be helpful to 
dismiss this complaint at such a late stage.
We found that this was Mr Hs account. This was based on evidence including:
The credit agreement, where the account was opened in Mr Hs name and at his 
address. It also received payments. Other details also matched  for example, the 
same number that Mr H gave us was also registered to the account.
The large amount of correspondence that was sent to Mr Hs home address over the 
years. This was the same address that Mr H gave our service. Mr H says he didnt 
receive any correspondence, but the letters were correctly addressed and it is 
extremely unlikely that they all went missing. So Mr H would have been aware of this 
account at the time, but he did not dispute it until fairly recently.
Most importantly: call recordings from 2013, where Mr H identified himself as the 
accountholder, passed security, and arranged the delivery of goods. We compared 
these recordings to Mr Hs calls with our service and found that the voices matched. 
We were satisfied that this was Mr H.
Having reviewed the evidence afresh, including listening to the relevant call recordings, I am 
also satisfied that this was Mr Hs account.
Ive also considered whether Capquest did enough to get in touch with Mr H before the CCJ. 
Mr H said that Capquest had not attempted to contact him by post or email, but I can see 
that they did send him a number of letters to his correct address. They were required to send 
certain documents by post, and I can see that they did so. They also tried phoning him a 
number of times and left messages. So they did try multiple ways to get in touch with Mr H 
before the CCJ, and I think their contact was sufficient. They were not obliged to use email 
specifically.I have not found Capquest to have done anything substantially wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman