DRN-3093002
The complaint
The estate of Mr L is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt locate and close 
several of the late Mr Ls accounts until 17 years after the late Mr L passed away.
What happened
A representative of The estate of the late Mr L (The Estate) received a letter from 
Nationwide in September 2020, asking them to contact Nationwide about a matter relating to 
the late Mr L. When The Estate contacted Nationwide, it was told that Nationwide were 
attempting to contact it because of a matter with the late Mr Ls accounts. This was of some 
concern to The Estate, because the late Mr L had passed away over 15 years previously, in 
January 2005.
The Estate didnt receive the information about the accounts that Nationwide had promised, 
so it contacted Nationwide again and raised a complaint about the matter in February 2021. 
Nationwide looked at the complaint and informed The Estate that Nationwide had located 
several open accounts belonging to the late Mr L which had active balances. Nationwide 
apologised to The Estate for not identifying the accounts sooner and confirmed that the 
accounts would be closed, and the combined balances paid to The Estate along with 8% 
simple interest.
The Estate wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, especially as Nationwide withheld 
20% of the calculated interest for tax purposes. So, it referred its complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They understood why the representatives 
of The Estate were upset with what had happened, but they felt that the actions that 
Nationwide had already undertaken, including the closing of the accounts and the payment 
of the combined balances along with 8% simple interest, already represented a fair and 
reasonable outcome to what had taken place.
The Estate remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a circumstance such as this, where Nationwide had identified existing accounts that 
belonged to the late Mr L, it would be expected by this service that Nationwide would have 
attempted to contact The estate of the late Mr L so as to correctly pass on the balances of 
those accounts to The Estate.
It would also be expected by this service that Nationwide would acknowledge the it made an 
error by not associating these accounts with the late Mr L sooner, following Mr Ls death 
many years prior and at the time that The Estate was first seeking to resolve the late Mr Ls 
financial affairs.
Nationwide appear to have done that here. They initiated contact with The Estate, and 
ultimately, Nationwide did transfer the balances of the accounts to The Estate, along with 8% 
simple interest.
This is the corrective action that this service would have expected to Nationwide to 
undertake. And while I can appreciate how the representatives of The Estate might be 
personally upset that Nationwide contacted them so long after the death of the late Mr L, it 
must be noted that this complaint has been raised in the name of The Estate, and not in the 
names of the representatives of The Estate in their personal capacities.
The reason for this is because its The Estate, and not the representatives of The Estate, 
that is the eligible complainant here  as defined by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, which outlines the remit of this service and 
by which this service must abide.
One consequence of this is that, while I can understand that the representatives of The 
Estate feel that they should be personally compensated by Nationwide for the upset that this 
matter has caused them, given that this complaint hasnt been raised in the name of the 
representatives of The Estate, but rather has been raised in the name of The Estate itself, 
Im unbale to consider instructing such compensation. And this is because an estate is not a 
person, and as such cannot be distressed.
The representatives of The Estate may question why, if compensation for distress can only 
usually be paid to personal complainants, why this complaint wasnt raised in their own 
names rather than in the name of The Estate.
The reason for this is again to be found in the DISP section of the FCA Handbook, and 
specifically in the sub-section that defines who is and is not an eligible complainant for the 
purposes of this service. 
In short, the representatives of The Estate are not eligible complainants in this instance as 
they do not personally hold an eligible relationship with Nationwide and with the late Mr Ls 
accounts. Only The Estate itself holds such an eligible relationship, and as such only The 
Estate is an eligible complainant here. 
I can empathise with the representatives of The Estate here, and Im pleased to note that 
Nationwide did make an offer of compensation to them in their personal capacity for the poor 
service that they received. 
But Nationwides offer of compensation was undertaken at Nationwides discretion, and 
doesnt supersede the rules by which this service must abide, as previously explained.
And, given that Im satisfied that Nationwide have already taken the corrective action that 
this service would expect here, by closing the accounts and transferring the combined 
balance to The Estate along with 8% simple interest, it follows that I dont feel that theres 
any further action that I can reasonably instruct Nationwide to take.
Im aware that The Estate is unhappy that Nationwide deducted 20% of the calculated 
interest for tax purposes, but it would be expected that Nationwide would make such a 
deduction and I can confirm that its in line with Nationwides obligations when making such 
interest payments.Its my understanding that Nationwide provided The Estate with a tax deduction certificate, 
which may allow The Estate to reclaim the deducted tax amount from HMRC, and so Im 
satisfied that Nationwide have followed an appropriate process here.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that The Estate wants, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I trust that 
The Estate will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman