DRN-3328540
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the service received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when Mr J 
visited a branch to withdraw cash.
 
What happened
In May 2018 Mr J visited a Barclays branch to withdraw £600 from his joint account. He 
didnt have his visa card with him, so he made a cheque out to cash, and was asked to 
provide his driving licence as identification. 
Mr J says he held his licence up to the glass panel at the counter, but Barclays insisted he 
hand it over which he refused to, as the DVLA advises against this. He said that he told 
Barclays hed come back in a few days with his card. But Barclays wouldnt return his 
cheque. So, not wanting to leave without it, Mr J remained at the counter, following which, 
Barclays contacted the police. 
The police attended and made Mr J hand over his licence which he reluctantly did, and he 
was given the cash. But he said the whole ordeal was very embarrassing; and he said that a 
few days later an additional £600 was taken from and returned to his account. So he 
complained.
In response to Mr Js complaint, Barclays acknowledged that following his visit, £600 was 
accidentally debited from his account, but they said this was returned on the same day  and 
theyve provided a copy of the letter they sent to Mr J apologising for this. But they 
maintained they were right to call the police, as they said not only did Mr J refuse to hand 
over his licence, but he refused to move from the counter, was insulting to staff and made 
comments about their origin. They also said this wasnt the first time that the police had been 
called. Barclays complaints department also said that when they called Mr J to discuss his 
complaint, he used abusive language and the call had to be terminated. 
Mr J denies that any call took place regarding his complaint, and says he hasnt spoken with 
anyone from Barclays over the phone. So, unhappy with Barclays response, Mr J brought 
his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She thought 
Barclays had acted reasonably in asking Mr J to provide the identification, and she felt that 
they were entitled to call the police should they feel the situation warranted it. 
But Mr J remained unhappy, and said that the investigator was wrong in saying that hed go 
back with his visa card, he said Barclays had made this up. So, unhappy with the 
investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, when customers withdraw cash from a branch, theyll be asked to 
provide proof of account ownership. In most cases this will be their bank card, and, 
dependant on the amount being withdrawn, further identification may also be required. This 
is not unusual. On the day Mr J visited the branch, by his own admission, he didnt have his 
bank card present, and chose instead to write out a cheque to cash. So he was asked to 
provide identification in the absence of proof of account ownership.
Mr Js explained why he didnt feel comfortable in handing over his driving licence to 
Barclays staff, and I can appreciate the reasons why. But Barclays have explained why they 
needed to take the licence in order to scan it for verification. This is not uncommon, and is 
something most banks will do in order to ensure their customers are protected. So I dont 
think they were being unreasonable in asking Mr J to provide his licence in order to process 
the withdrawal. 
Ive thought carefully about what happened next. Both parties have explained that the police 
were called out to the branch; but both have set out different versions of the events that led 
to this. Mr J has insisted that he stayed at the branch because Barclays wouldnt return his 
cheque and he didnt want to leave without it. Whereas Barclays have said that Mr J refused 
to leave the branch when asked, and that he was acting in an insulting and abusive manner. 
Its not possible for me to state exactly what happened in the branch, other than it seems 
clear there was a disagreement between the two parties. But Barclays have said, despite 
what Mr Js told us, that they found Mr Js behaviour unacceptable to the point where they 
felt they needed to contact the authorities. Theyve also said this wasnt the first time theyve 
had to do this.
I appreciate this situation must have been embarrassing for Mr J but, ultimately, Barclays are 
within their rights to contact the authorities should they feel a situation warrants it. So, while I 
appreciate this may have been embarrassing for Mr J, I dont have sufficient evidence to say 
this was unreasonable on Barclays part.
Barclays have referred to calling Mr J to discuss his complaint, and having to terminate the 
call due to the language Mr J was using. But Mr J denies this call took place. Looking at 
whats been provided by both parties, I think there has been a misunderstanding here. 
The call notes Barclays have added suggest that Mr J may have used inappropriate 
language during a call they made to him. But the call notes also show that when Mr J 
received this call, he was initially concerned about whether the call was genuine, and asked 
how do I know youre from Barclays?. Barclays then went on to ask Mr J a number of 
personal identification questions, which seem to have prompted the outburst that Barclays 
notes suggest followed. 
I want to be clear that Im not condoning the language used during the call. However, I think 
considering the nature of the call and Mr Js existing concerns around identity security, its 
entirely plausible he may have thought this was a nuisance call, rather than a legitimate call 
from Barclays to discuss his complaint. So, I can understand why he may have felt 
aggravated by it. But equally, I can understand why following this call, Barclays chose to 
contact Mr J in writing from this point onwards, as its clear this call was not going to reach a 
productive outcome. 
Mr J has also said in response to the investigators opinion, that he didnt tell Barclays he 
would go back another time with his card, and that Barclays have made this up. I appreciate 
Mr J may feel this way now, and that some time has since passed since the initial call with 
Mr J had with our service. But having listened to call between Mr J and our service in 
August 2020, it seems that it was Mr J that told us that he didnt have his visa card with him, and that he would return in a few days with his card, rather than Barclays telling us this. So I 
dont think the investigator was wrong to set this out in their opinion. 
Mr J has also asked that we review CCTV footage of the events. But I dont think this is 
necessary, as its likely this would only provide a visual representation of what took place, 
rather than allowing us to listen to what was said by either party. And the fact remains that if 
Barclays had felt threatened by Mr Js behaviour in the branch, then they were entitled to 
contact the police in such an instance. 
I appreciate this was a difficult experience for Mr J, and that the police being called would 
have been embarrassing for him. However, I dont have sufficient evidence to say that 
Barclays were unreasonable in taking the actions they did following Mr Js branch visit. So 
for this reason, Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman