DRN-3501809
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how Covea Insurance plc (Covea) dealt with a claim under a 
block insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs tenants complained about damp problems in a flat he owned. The tenants moved out 
due to the issues. Shortly afterwards, Mr C found the carpets were damp and found a leak 
coming from the shower. The leak also affected other properties in the block. The block 
management company contacted Covea to make a claim for the damage found, which 
affected four flats and the communal area.
Mr C complained to Covea about the progress of the claim, the claim for loss of rent and 
costs covered as part of the claim. When Covea replied, it said it had taken steps to 
progress the claim and said the damage to neighbours properties had been concluded 
much earlier. It said it had taken 20 months to settle Mr Cs claim. It accepted that during this 
period its loss adjuster had been responsible for eight months of delay and said Mr C had 
been responsible for seven months of delay. It agreed to pay 16 months loss of rent, which 
included a period after it made the settlement payment as Covid-19 restrictions prevented 
works taking place. It also offered £500 compensation for the delays and inconvenience 
caused by the loss adjuster. However, it said the policy didnt provide cover for Mr Cs 
carpets or council tax and it would consider re-letting costs once these were incurred.
When Mr C contacted this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr C was 
responsible for a few weeks of delays and so Covea should pay loss of rent for 23.5 months. 
He said Covea should also pay for the carpet because Mr C seemed to dispose of it on the 
advice of the loss adjuster.
As Covea didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 25 April 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
This has clearly been a lengthy claim and there were a number of delays that contributed to 
this. Covea has accepted that its loss adjuster was responsible for eight months of delays, 
but said Mr C was responsible for seven months of delays. So, Ive looked at whether that 
was reasonable.
Ive focussed on the seven months of delay for which Covea said Mr C was responsible. It 
said the first period of delay was December 2018 to April 2019. In December 2018, the loss 
adjuster sent Mr C a report that described the strip out and drying requirements. Covea 
accepts the loss adjuster should have sent the report sooner and that this delayed the 
progress of the claim. Mr C replied to the email a few days later and asked the loss adjuster 
what action he needed to take. The loss adjuster replied the following day asking Mr C to 
forward his contractors revised estimates and said he was checking if drying was required in 
Mr Cs property. It was then the Christmas period. Early in the new year, the loss adjuster 
and Mr C then spoke to go through the scope of works for the strip out and Mr C said he 
would arrange for his builder to visit. So, I cant see that Mr C was responsible for any delay 
on this issue up until this point. Mr C also seemed to think it was realistic to get his builder 
out shortly after the conversation, so I think its fair to have expected him to provide the 
revised estimate by the end of January. 
In early-February, the loss adjuster emailed Mr C to say the extent of the strip-out works had 
been approved and, again, asked Mr C to provide the revised estimate from his builder. Mr C 
replied and said he wasnt able to contact the builder and that he was far too busy to deal 
with this but that he would deal with it when he got back from holiday towards the end of 
February. Mr C then sent the loss adjuster an email in early March that said he was having 
problems getting the contractors to carry out the works and it would be about a month before 
they could start. He asked if that was acceptable or not. If I take Mr Cs email as when he 
provided the loss adjuster with the required information, I currently think Mr C was 
responsible for about a month of delays here.
The loss adjuster then replied to Mr Cs email and said:
If you would prefer to stay with this contractor, I guess we will have to wait until they can 
start, although the longer it goes on the larger the loss of rent.
You may wish to go with another contractor?
A short time later, the loss adjuster asked Mr C when the strip-out works would start and Mr 
C replied confirming what had previously been discussed. The loss adjuster and Mr C then 
seemed to speak on the phone and the loss adjuster made a note that Mr C was happy if the 
loss adjuster was able to arrange for another company to do the work sooner. Mr C emailed 
a few days later and said he had spoken to his contractors and they could now start in about 
two weeks, so Coveas contractor wouldnt be needed. He asked the loss adjuster to confirm 
this was acceptable. I didnt see a response to this email from the loss adjuster in the 
records provided to this service. At the beginning of May, a contractor working for Covea 
confirmed the strip-out works were complete.
So, I think the loss adjuster, in effect, agreed the timescales for the work to start were 
reasonable unless Mr C wanted to find another contractor. So, I dont currently think it was 
fair for Covea then to say it was unreasonable for the strip-out work to start when it did.
After the strip-out works were complete, drying started at the property. While that was 
ongoing, the loss adjuster told Mr C it would be a good idea to get his builder to firm up the 
scope and price of the works, as he was conscious this might have changed since the strip 
out phase was completed. He asked Mr C to submit the details. The drying company then 
seemed only to send the drying certificate to Mr C and it was only at the beginning of July 
that it confirmed to the loss adjuster the drying was complete. A couple of days later, the loss 
adjuster emailed Mr C to ask for an update on getting the repairs underway, including 
revised costs and the start date. About three weeks later, Mr C sent quotes for the works.
The loss adjuster replied about a week later and said he thought the costs were a bit high 
and he would carry out an analysis and be back in touch. A couple of days later, the loss 
adjuster emailed Mr C with queries about some of the items included in the works. Mr C 
replied to explain the costs. When the loss adjuster replied, he said some of the costs could 
be covered as part of the claim, but continued to query other items. The loss adjuster said he 
would be away until later in August and provided someone elses contact details for while he 
was away. Mr C contacted that person and discussions continued. 
Covea seems to accept that delays were then caused by the loss adjuster not getting back 
to Mr C about the quotes. However, it said Mr C was responsible for the delays in July and August. From what Ive seen Mr C received the builders quotes in mid-July and took about 
10 days to pass them on to the loss adjuster. The quotes then needed some further 
discussion. Im aware Mr C had already been asked for the quotes while the drying was 
ongoing, so I think he could have provided them sooner. If he had done so, I think some of 
those discussions could have taken place earlier. 
But, I need to bear in mind the mistake about providing the drying certificate, which delayed 
the loss adjuster following up, and that the loss adjuster went on holiday in early August and, 
despite Mr C keeping up communication in his absence, the loss adjuster then didnt reply 
for some considerable time. So, I think Mr C was responsible for about a month of delays 
here because I think the quotes could have been provided earlier and the initial discussion 
could then have taken place sooner. But when the loss adjuster went on leave, despite Mr C 
trying to progress things, the claim then seemed to come to a halt. So, thinking about the 
delays overall during the claim, I currently think Mr C was responsible for two months of 
delays, which is the month from the end of January 2019 and a month in July 2019.
Mr C also seemed to want the loss of rent to be paid for the period he was advertising for 
new tenants. However, I havent seen anything in the policy that would cover that period, so I 
dont currently intend to require Covea to pay loss of rent for that time.
As the claim took 20 months to deal with, I think the two months of delays I referred to above 
should be deducted from that period, which means Covea should pay loss of rent for 18 
months for the period of the claim itself. Covea also agreed to pay a further three months 
loss of rent because of the Covid-19 restrictions in place at the time it made the settlement. I 
think that was a reasonable approach, so I also think it should pay that additional three 
months loss of rent. This means I currently intend to say Covea should pay a total of 21 
months loss of rent. Covea can deduct any payments it has already paid for loss of rent from 
that amount, but any payment it still needs to make should have interest added to it because 
Mr C lost use of that money.
Mr C also wanted Covea to cover the cost of the carpet in his property. Looking at the policy, 
this only seemed to provide contents cover in communal areas and didnt provide cover for 
contents in individual properties. So, I dont think Mr Cs carpet was covered as part of the 
claim. However, looking at what happened, the loss adjuster seemed to think the carpet 
would, or should, be covered under the claim and he seemed to be of this view for some 
time. When the loss adjuster told Mr C the carpet wouldnt be included in the claim, Mr C 
said this was different to what the loss adjuster had previously told him and that, had he 
known this, he would have tried to clean the carpet rather than replacing it. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the loss adjuster gave Mr C the impression that 
the carpet would be included in the claim and that he could dispose of it. I also think Mr C 
wouldnt have disposed of the carpet if he had been given the correct information from the 
start. So, I currently think Covea should pay the cost of replacing the carpet, as I think Mr C 
disposed of it because he was given misleading information by the loss adjuster. If Mr C has 
already paid for the carpet to be replaced, Covea should pay interest on this amount, as Mr 
C lost use of the money.
Mr C also said he thought the letting fees should be covered. In its response to Mr Cs 
complaint, Covea said it would consider these costs once they were incurred. I think that 
was a reasonable response and it is for Mr C to provide Covea with evidence of those costs 
if he hasnt done so already. Mr C also wanted the council tax paid. Looking at the policy, I 
cant see that this was covered by the policy, including under the loss of rent section, so I 
dont think Covea needs to cover this cost. Mr C also wanted electricity costs to be covered. 
Covea provided evidence to this service of a payment that it made for electricity charges. If 
Mr C is unhappy with the amount paid for the electricity, he should raise this with Covea in 
the first instance.Ive also looked at the service provided by Covea. It accepts that the loss adjuster provided a 
poor level of service, including sometimes not responding for lengthy periods of time, which 
seemed to significantly delay the claim. Covea offered £500 compensation. Looking at 
everything that happened, I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont 
intend to require Covea to pay anything further. However, it should ensure it pays the 
compensation if it hasnt done so already. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 May 2022.
When Mr C replied, he accepted that some of the delays were his responsibility. However, 
he tended to disagree that a month was lost due to a delay in supplying the quotes. He 
confirmed the date he had received the last quote and when he then forwarded them all on. 
Mr C also said he didnt receive the drying certificate until July 2019.
Mr C also couldnt find any emails where the loss adjuster had requested him to get a 
breakdown of costs before July 2019. Mr C said that as he hadnt provided any quotes 
before July 2019, he couldnt understand why the loss adjuster would have asked him to firm 
up the scope and price of works before this. In terms of loss of rent, Mr C said he thought it 
was reasonable for the wording to be interpreted as covering the period for which a property 
was advertised, as all the loss of rent was the result of the damage.
Covea accepted the loss of rent at 21 months and confirmed it had already paid the £500 
compensation. However, it disputed that Mr C should have benefit under the block policy for 
his carpet. It said that had the carpet not been disposed of he would have had to clean it 
himself. It proposed that £200 be deducted from the settlement for the carpet to account for 
this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the comments from both parties, but this 
hasnt caused me to change my view on how this complaint should be settled.
Mr C has said he didnt receive the drying certificate until July 2019. Whether or not Mr C 
was provided with the certificate for the first time in July 2019 or earlier, the contractor 
should still have given it to the loss adjuster sooner than it was so that the claim could 
progress. Mr C has also disagreed that he was responsible for any delay in providing the 
quotes. Although Mr C wasnt sure why the loss adjuster would have asked him to firm up 
the quotes before July 2019, Ive checked the records again and, from what Ive seen, the 
loss adjuster did so.  Mr C also explained that he passed the quotes on promptly when he 
received the final quote. Ive looked again at the date on which Mr C passed on the quotes to 
the loss adjuster and I can see he passed these on shortly after he received the final quote. 
Mr C has also said Covea should pay loss of rent for the period the property was advertised. 
Covea allowed time for the works to be completed as part of its settlement for the loss of 
rent. But, I havent see anything that persuades me that it was responsible for when the 
property was advertised or how long it took Mr C took to find tenants and so should pay for 
loss of rent for this period. So, Ive looked again at the calculation for the loss of rent. This includes the length of the 
claim overall, who was responsible for any delays, when the quotes were provided and the 
additional payment Covea already offered due to Covid-19 restrictions. I remain of the view 
that its fair and reasonable to Covea to pay for 21 months loss of rent.
Covea has also said that it doesnt think it should have a liability for the carpet under the 
terms of the policy. However, the reason Ive said Covea should pay for the carpet is 
because Mr C disposed of it as the result of incorrect advice given to him by the loss 
adjuster. Covea has also said a £200 deduction should be made for the amount it would 
have cost to clean the carpet. I dont know what it would have cost Mr C to clean the carpet 
and I can think of some scenarios where it would have been free. But any such scenario and 
the cost attached to it is hypothetical. Mr C didnt clean the carpet, he disposed of it. From 
what Ive seen, this was because of what he was told by the loss adjuster. As a result, Mr C 
had to buy a new carpet. So, I remain of the view that Covea needs to pay to replace the 
carpet and to do so without deductions being made from it.
Putting things right
Covea should pay a total of 21 months loss of rent and the cost of replacing the carpet. It 
should pay interest on these amounts. It should also pay £500 compensation. Im aware 
Covea has said it has already paid this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay a total of 21 months loss of rent. It may deduct any payments it has already made 
for loss of rent from the total amount now payable. 
Pay 8% simple interest on any loss of rent payment still to be made from 24 August 2018 
to the date on which payment is made.
Pay the cost to Mr C of replacing the carpet, subject to him providing suitable evidence 
to Covea Insurance plc of the amount.
If Mr C has paid the carpet invoice, pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date 
on which Mr C paid the invoice to the date on which it makes the payment, subject to Mr 
C providing suitable evidence of the date on which he paid the invoice.
If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the £500 compensation it previously offered, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman