DRN-3882196
The complaint
Mr P has complained about an amount of money that Barclays Bank UK PLC credited to two 
old debts. Mr P thought this was for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy, and asked to receive the payments directly.
What happened
In 2022, Barclays reviewed the way theyd dealt with some old accounts. They found that 
with two of Mr Ps credit card accounts, theyd added some interest and fees that they 
shouldnt have done, before selling those accounts on.
To put this right, Barclays credited the amount of the extra interest and fees to the new 
owner of the accounts. That way, the credit card accounts now had the right balance. 
Mr P thought that this related to a refund of PPI, and complained to our service. Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr P and Barclays a provisional decision on 5 December 2022, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I think theres been a misunderstanding here.
Mr P thought that the credits Barclays made were for a refund of PPI, and so I understand 
why he then thought to complain.
But these credits did not relate to PPI. Barclays paid these amounts separately to any 
complaint about PPI. This was not a refund of PPI; this was Barclays adjusting the balance 
of the accounts to take off some extra interest and fees that should not have been charged.
When a bank gets things wrong  like by overcharging interest and fees  we expect them to 
put it right by placing their customer in the financial position they would have been in had the 
mistake not been made, as far as its possible to do that.
Had the extra interest and fees not been charged, then Mr Ps credit card balances would 
now be smaller. So in order to put Mr P in the position he wouldve been in, it makes the 
most sense for Barclays to work with the accounts new owner and get the balances down to 
what they shouldve been.
I can understand why Mr P might want Barclays to pay these amounts to him directly. But 
that wouldnt make as much sense. Mr P never actually paid the excess interest and fees 
himself. They were added to the balances, he never paid them off, then the accounts were 
sold on. So there are no overpayments to refund to Mr P. Again, it made more sense for 
Barclays to pay the amounts to the debts new owner, so that the balances could be reduced 
to the correct amounts.
So I think it was right for Barclays to credit these amounts to the debts new owner.
I do appreciate Mr Ps arguments about what should happen to PPI refunds after a debt gets 
sold on. But again, Im afraid that these credits were not PPI refunds.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 January 2023. But neither Mr P nor Barclays sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman