DRN-2215060
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was mis-sold a merchant services agreement with Paymentsense 
Limited.
What happened
Mrs L is a sole trader. In November 2018 the husband of one of her regular clients told her 
that he could sell her a payment terminal for which she would only have to pay rental fees of 
£7 a month. She says she agreed to this, and that the salesman signed the agreement for 
her on his computer, without showing her the terms and conditions. In December, after the 
cooling-off period had expired, she discovered that the rental fees were actually £17 a 
month, and that there were significant additional charges as well. She complained that she 
had been misled, and that she would not have agreed to anything if she had been told the 
true cost.
In response, Paymentsense said that the fees had been set out clearly in the merchant 
services agreement and in the terminal hire agreement, which it said she had signed, and so 
she was bound by them. It did not accept that the agreement had been mis-sold.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She accepted that Mrs Ls account of what had 
happened was true. She noted that the signatures on the agreements were totally dissimilar 
to Mrs Ls signature on our complaint form. Mrs L had shown Paymentsense a text message 
from the salesman in which he had referred to a fee of £7 a month, which Paymentsense 
had not addressed in its final response letter but had not disputed. She said the audit trail 
supplied by Paymentsense did not suggest that Mrs L had signed the agreements herself, or 
that she had had enough time to read them. So she accepted that Mrs L had not seen them, 
and she said this conclusion was supported by the fact that Mrs L had quickly contacted the 
salesman as soon as she had found out the true cost. She recommended that 
Paymentsense cancel the agreements and collect the payment terminal at no cost to Mrs L, 
and refund any payments she had made. She did not recommend any other compensation 
for distress or inconvenience, or for the fees Mrs Ls solicitor had charged her for bringing 
this complaint on her behalf.
Paymentsense did not accept that opinion. It said the audit trail showed that the agreements 
had been emailed to Mrs L, so shed had an opportunity to read them. It said there was no 
evidence that she had not signed them, and the audit trail showed that they had been signed 
on the salesmans computer and in his presence. She had accepted responsibility for the 
fees by using the terminal. It said Mrs L had not contacted Paymentsense about the charges 
until March 2019. It had then offered to review her rates and optional bolt-ons, but she had 
not responded. As a gesture of good will, Paymentsense offered to waive the cancellation 
fees, but it did not agree to do more than that, and it asked for an ombudsman to review this 
case if that was not acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does not appear to be in dispute that the salesman told Mrs L that the hire of the payment 
terminal would cost £7 a month, when in fact it was actually £17 a month (plus all the 
charges under the merchant services agreement as well). The lower amount of £7 is referred 
to in a text message from the salesman to Mrs L, which she brought to Paymentsenses 
attention, and this was not challenged. Evidence has not been obtained from the salesman 
other than the audit trail. That evidence shows that the agreements were signed on the 
salesmans own computer, which is consistent with what she described happening  the 
salesman signing them for her. I therefore have no reason to doubt what she has told us, 
and I accept that her account is credible and true. (In coming to that conclusion, I have 
ignored the fact that the signatures on the agreements do not match the signature on our 
complaint form, because that evidence would be easy to fake.)
I accept that the agreements were emailed to her at the time, and that she had the 
opportunity to read them during the cooling-off period. Since she did not challenge the 
charges right away, it seems likely that she did not read the agreements until it was too late 
to avail herself of the cooling-off period. But that does not mean that the agreements were 
not mis-sold. If the salesman told her something that was not true, and this induced her to 
enter the two agreements when she would not have entered them if she had known the true 
position, then that is a misrepresentation, and reason enough for me to uphold her 
complaint. I will take into account her failure to read the terms and conditions and to cancel 
the agreements during the cooling-off period when I decide how much compensation to 
award her. But it does not mean that she agreed to whatever charges were set out in the 
agreements (although I would have taken the opposite view if the salesman had not 
misrepresented the charges). She thought she was only agreeing to the charges the 
salesman had told her about.
I am not persuaded by the argument that Mrs L did not contact Paymentsense until March. 
The reason she did not do so earlier is because when she raised the matter with the 
salesman, he told her he would negotiate with Paymentsense (or with the terminal owner) on 
her behalf. He later told her that she would be paid compensation. So for a while she trusted 
him, believing that what had happened was not his fault and that he was helping her. When 
she lost confidence in him, she contacted Paymentsense. Paymentsenses original response 
was not to address her claim that the agreements had been mis-sold, but only to offer to 
review her rates and optional bolt-ons, which was not what she had complained about. So 
I think that it is understandable that instead of replying to that offer, she instructed solicitors  
it doesnt mean that she is lying about what the salesman told her. (Having said that, she 
could have just complained to our Service instead, for free, so I agree with our investigators 
decision not to ask Paymentsense to refund her legal fees.)
The normal redress for misrepresentation is to unwind the agreement and restore the 
complainant to the position she would have been in if she had not entered the agreement. 
There is no reason for me to depart from that here, and so that is what I will require 
Paymentsense to do. I will also award Mrs L a small amount of compensation for her 
inconvenience. (Contrary to what has been said before, it is actually not correct that this is 
not possible in complaints brought by sole traders.) I think £50 is fair. The reason it is not 
more is because the inconvenience could have been avoided if Mrs L had read the terms 
and conditions when they were emailed to her, and had cancelled the agreements within the 
cooling-off period.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Paymentsense Limited to:Cancel the merchant services agreement, and arrange to cancel the terminal hire 
agreement, both at no cost to Mrs L,
Collect the terminal at no cost to Mrs L,
Refund any payments Mrs L has already made, and cancel any outstanding fees or 
charges,
Pay Mrs L £50 for her trouble.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman