DRN-3098143
The complaint
Mr B complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim for 
repairs to his car under his Breakdown repair policy, following a suspected fuel leak. 
What happened
Mr B holds a Breakdown repair policy with Acromas Insurance. In May 2021 he reported 
what he believed to be a fuel leak. So Acromas sent out an engineer to inspect the vehicle. 
The engineer was unable to identify the source of the leak and recommended Mr B have the 
vehicle inspected at a garage which he went on to do. 
Mr B contacted the garage, but they were unable to inspect his car for two weeks. So he 
contacted the Acromas, as he was concerned whether hed be covered. As the garage had 
told him a claim may not be covered unless it was put through within seven days. But 
Acromas confirmed they wouldnt decline his claim as these delays were outside of his 
control. 
Around two weeks later Mr B attended the garage with his car. And the garage contacted 
Acromas, who asked the garage to check the cars mileage. But having done so, Acromas 
were made aware that the mileage on Mr Bs car had increased by almost 800 miles since 
they initially inspected it. So they said the claim couldnt be accepted. 
Mr B said he had been told by Acromas initially that he shouldnt drive the car, but that the 
engineer that visited him said it would be fine. He also said he didnt feel it was made clear in 
the terms and conditions that he wasnt allowed to use the car; only that Acromas wouldnt 
cover any additional damage caused as a result of further driving. So, he complained. 
Acromas considered Mr Bs complaint, but said that the policy provides cover in the event 
that Mr Bs vehicle had broken down due to a mechanical or electrical failure and, as a result, 
was prevented from continuing its journey safely. They said the vehicle must have been 
attended by the AA, and it be determined that a part needed repairing or replacing in order 
for Mr B to start or continue his journey safely. They said that as Mr B had been able to drive 
the car almost 800 miles since their visit, it was clear that while the car may have had a fuel 
leak, it hadnt broken down. So, they maintained they were right not pay his claim. 
But Mr B said he was told by the garage that he needed to drive the car to drain the tank of 
petrol before works could start, and that the Acromas told him he would still be covered if he 
was to drive it. So, unhappy with Acromas response, he brought his complaint to our 
service. 
An investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She thought 
the evidence showed that Mr B was told not to drive the car on more than one occasion, and 
he had. But more importantly, she said it was clear that a part didnt need replacing or 
repairing in order for Mr B to start or continue a journey safely, as he was able to drive the 
car for close to a further 800 miles without said repair. So, she was satisfied it was 
reasonable for Acromas to decline his claim, as his car had not broken down. 
Mr B remained unhappy with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has set out his complaint at length, and Id like to thank him for taking the time to do so. 
However, my findings will only address those matters I consider central to the outcome of 
this complaint. So, I wont address each and every point that has been raised. I trust this 
wont be taken as a discourtesy. 
Its important to first point out, as the investigator has, that this policy isnt designed to carry 
out standard repairs or replacement of car parts. It only provides such cover in the event that 
a vehicle has broken down, and such cover is intended to get the car operational again. 
When Acromas sent an engineer to inspect Mr Bs car, its clear that from what they could 
see, and from what Mr B had told them, the vehicle was losing fuel. But the engineer was not 
able to identify the source of the leak and said that further inspection was required at a 
garage. Acromas have told us that the engineer advised Mr B at this point that he should not 
drive the car until the works have been completed, as this could affect his claim. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the engineers report. It says that Mr B had been advised 
that fuel had been leaking, but the engineer was unable to source the location of any leaks. 
And it explained that further investigation into the fuel leak would be required at a garage. It 
went onto say that Mr B should not drive the car, as continued use may affect the validity of 
a potential claim.
Mr B has argued that he was told by the engineer that he could drive the vehicle. But from 
the evidence Ive been provided - both what Acromas have told us the engineer said, and 
from what shows on the engineers report - Im not persuaded this was the case. And I think 
its more likely than not that Mr B was told he shouldnt drive it. 
Ive also listened to the call between Mr B and Acromas on 20 May when he called, 
concerned about the fact the garage couldnt see him for around two weeks. And during that 
call, the agent made it clear to Mr B that if he does continue to use the vehicle it could affect 
his claim, but as long as its not being used, they will consider the claim. Mr B told the agent 
that he needs to use the car to get to work, but the advisor said I appreciate that, but thats 
something you will need to arrange yourself. So, I think it was again made clear in this call, 
that the car shouldnt be driven.   
Mr B has argued that the policy doesnt set out that if he continues to use the car, that his 
claim will not be covered. And Ive considered the point Mr B has made here. The policy 
does say that Acromas will not cover The cost of repairing further damage if You continue to 
drive the Nominated Vehicle after a fault has developed. 
I accept, as Mr B has suggested and the investigator has said, that the engineer was unable 
to determine what damage there was at the initial visit. So theres no real way of telling 
whether or not additional damage was caused as a result of driving those additional miles. 
However, page 5 of the policy terms and conditions states, under the section titled getting 
your vehicle to a repairer that: Whenever possible well get your vehicle taken to one of our 
network of preferred garages for repair. Alternatively, if you prefer, we can get your vehicle 
to a professional repairer of your choice (The vehicle must be taken to a garage without delay if it cannot be fixed at the roadside, any delay or continued use will affect the validity of 
a potential claim).  
So, I think at this stage it was made clear in the policy terms, on Mr Bs call with the Acromas 
and from the engineer that visited, that Mr B should not drive the car, and that doing so may 
impact his claim. 
While Ive looked at whats not covered and what Mr B was told, the most important thing for 
me to consider, is what the terms and conditions say about what the policy is there to cover. 
Ive explained above that this was a breakdown policy, and not designed to cover general 
maintenance and repairs. And the policy states:
 
The cover set out in the policy is designed to run alongside your AA membership, to cover 
the cost of parts, which require replacing or repairing, following a breakdown attended by the 
AA. This cover is not a warranty and is not intended to replace servicing.
It then goes on to define a breakdown as:
 A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership; and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely; and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your AA membership, 
commenced
So, its clear to me that the cover provided under Mr Bs policy is to carry out repairs or 
replace parts following a breakdown, in order for Mr B to resume or commence his current 
journey. But in this case prior to any repairs being completed, and against Acromas advice, 
Mr B managed to drive the vehicle almost a further 800 miles. So, while I appreciate there 
may have been replacement parts needed, or repairs required to Mr Bs vehicle, I dont think 
they were required in order for him to resume or commence a journey, as its clear he was 
able to drive the car for a considerable distance prior to them being completed. So I 
therefore dont think Acromas were wrong to decline Mr Bs claim under his Breakdown 
policy as, based on the policy definition, his car had not broken down. 
I appreciate Mr B says he was told by the garage that hed need to drive the car to drain the 
tank. I havent seen evidence to support this. But furthermore, even if I had, I think Mr B 
should have known to check this with Acromas, given what hed already been told about the 
impact it could have on his claim. And the fact remains, Mr B was able to drive the car 
almost 800 miles since Acromas initial inspection. So Im satisfied his car did not meet the 
policy definition of a breakdown, which is the only scenario under which his repairs or 
replacement parts are covered. 
So, for the above reasons, while I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, Im not 
asking Acromas to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman