DRN-3325450
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy because he believes that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt 
provide him with the lowest available interest rate on his credit account.
What happened
Mr M had a packaged bank account with NatWest and in 2003 he opened a credit account 
that was available to him because of his status with NatWest. In 2019, during a meeting with 
his private banking manager (PBM), Mr M was told by his PBM that his credit account 
should have benefitted from a lower, preferential rate of interest from its inception in 2003. 
Mr Ms PBM tried to arrange for this lower rate of interest to be backdated on Mr Ms account 
but was unable to do so. Mr M wasnt happy that hed been paying a higher rate of interest 
on his credit account than he should have been, so he raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mr Ms complaint. But they noted that they didnt retain a record of what 
interest rates may have been available in 2003, and so they didnt feel that it could be 
confirmed that a lower rate of interest had been available to Mr M at that time. So, they didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that it could be 
reasonably demonstrated that NatWest had acted unfairly towards Mr M, and so they also 
didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having been told by his PBM that a lower rate of interest should have been applied to his 
credit account at the point that the account was opened, I can understand how Mr M would 
want that lower rate of interest backdated onto his account and any overpayments of interest 
he might have made reimbursed back him. And I can appreciate how this would be 
especially the case, given that Mr M held a packaged bank account with NatWest for which 
he paid a monthly fee and which he feels should have entitled him to the most preferential 
interest rates available.
But while I dont doubt that Mr M was informed by his PBM that a lower rate of interest 
should have been available to him on his credit account, NatWest havent been able to 
confirm that that was the case. Indeed, in their response to Mr Ms complaint, NatWest 
confirmed that they dont retain full records of all the interest rate alternatives that they 
offered to their customers when the account was opened in 2003, and so its difficult to 
understand how Mr Ms PBM arrived at the position that he did.
It's also notable that, when referring his complaint to this service, Mr M quotes his PBM as 
having stated that we didnt give you the preferential credit card which gave you a lower rate 
of interest at the inception of the account.
Ive asked NatWest about this, who confirmed that Mr Ms status as a packaged bank 
account holder entitled him to a particular type of credit account known as a black account, 
and that Mr M was issued with a black credit card accordingly. NatWest also confirmed that 
this black credit card is itself a preferential card.
Additionally, NatWest have provided information about different credit card accounts that 
would have been available in 2003. This shows that the black account that Mr M held gave 
0% interest for the longest time in regard to balance transfers. And, while there was one 
alternative account that gave 0% interest for purchases for a longer time than the black 
account, this alternative account wasnt part of any packaged bank account scheme and 
didnt provide similar total benefits to the account that Mr M held.
As such, its very difficult for me to conclude that NatWest have acted unfairly towards Mr M 
here. I say this because NatWest have confirmed that Mr M was issued with a black credit 
card, as befitting his status as a packaged bank account holder of that specific grade, and 
because Im satisfied that it cant be reasonably demonstrated that a lower rate of interest 
would have been available on that black credit card as Mr M may have been led to believe.
Finally, it also must be noted that if different rates of interest were available on the black 
credit card in 2003, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that Mr M would have been entitled 
to the lower rate. This is because the black credit account was a preferential credit card only 
available to packaged bank account holders such as Mr M, and this means that all black 
credit card holders had the same packaged bank account holder status as Mr M.
As such, all interest rates offered on the black card by NatWest in 2003 would be offered to 
fee paying packaged bank account holders such as Mr M. And given that such different rates 
of interest would only exist if NatWest were offering them to customers following some form 
of selective criteria  such as a credit or risk assessment  then the possibility exists that Mr 
M was given the lowest rate of interest that NatWest deemed him to be eligible for at that 
time, even in consideration of his preferential account status. 
Ultimately, considering all of the above, I dont feel that it can be reasonably concluded that 
NatWest have issued Mr M with a credit account with a unfair interest rate here, and it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any 
further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman