DRN-2915973
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that she has not received a full refund from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) for a holiday that was cancelled.
What happened
Ms L booked a holiday with a travel agent, who I will refer to as T.
Ms L made five payments to T totalling £1,016.09 in 2019. This first two payments were 
made through direct debit and were on:
25 Jan 2019 for £266.80 
26 March 2019 for £199.29
Ms L then made three further payments to T using her Visa debit card on:
02 March 2019 for £100.00
26 March 2019 for £250.00
26 April 2019 for £200.00
T subsequently went into administration. Ms L explained that she tried to get a refund for her 
holiday through ATOL but was unsuccessful. Ms L then contacted Nationwide and logged 
her dispute with them on 27 February 2020. On 28 February 2020, Nationwide asked Ms L 
to provide further information, which she did on the same day. Ms L then received 
Nationwides automated response stating they would be in contact within 1-10 working days.
As Ms L hadnt heard back from Nationwide, she contacted them on 17 March 2020 for an 
update. During this call, Ms L was informed that there had been a delay with progressing her 
case, as another airline had gone into administration, and Nationwide was prioritising those 
cases. Ms L was also told that it would still be a further three working days before her 
dispute was reviewed. With regard to the direct debit payments, Nationwide explained that 
whilst they were able to raise a chargeback for Visa dispute claims, they were unable to 
raise a Direct Debit Indemnity (DDI) for the same reason.
Ms L called Nationwide again in March 2020 and was told her case would be actioned in a 
few days. Ms L raised a complaint and in summary said she was unhappy that Nationwide 
hadnt contacted her within the agreed timescales, information had been requested from her 
on multiple occasions and that her claim had been overlooked due to another airline going 
into administration and becoming a priority.
Nationwide sent a final response letter on 24 March 2020. They agreed that they had acted 
outside of their agreed timescales and that incorrect information was provided to Ms L in 
relation to other cases being prioritised over hers. With regard to information being 
requested multiple times, Nationwide explained that although Ms L provided proof from 
ATOL that her claim couldnt be processed by them, they still needed evidence from ABTA 
to say her claim wouldnt be covered by them. As this was evidence that had not been 
provided by Ms L, Nationwide said no errors had been made when requesting this 
information. However, for the errors in relation to not working within their timescales, and 
misinforming Ms L about the prioritisation of other cases, Nationwide provided £125 
compensation for this.
On 3 April 2020, it appears Nationwide actioned Ms Ls dispute and a chargeback claim was 
submitted for the three card payments made on 2 March, 26 March and 26 April 2019. 
Ms L continued to contact Nationwide about updates. She then made a further complaint 
about the delays to her chargeback being actioned and for being misinformed about when 
the temporary credit would apply to her account.
On 9 April 2020, Nationwide wrote to Ms L in response to the further concerns shed raised. 
Nationwide agreed that Ms L had been in contact with them several times, and whilst they 
werent able to locate all the calls, they recognised with staff shortages, it was possible that 
people were working in areas they werent trained in. For the misinformation Ms L may have 
been given, Nationwide provided £25 compensation.
In terms of the chargeback, Nationwide said that the chargeback had been raised and they 
were waiting for a response back. They said usually a credit would be put on at this stage, 
but as the chargeback was raised against an account which was closed, Nationwide would 
need to wait for approval before being able to put the credit onto another account for Ms L.
Ms L went on to contact Nationwide again by phone and email to raise some further 
concerns. In particular, she was unhappy that having sent a further email from ABTA on 23 
March, she still hadnt heard back from Nationwide in relation to the chargeback being 
raised.
Nationwide responded on 23 April 2020 and confirmed having received Ms Ls ABTA 
confirmation, they had raised the chargeback within 10 working days. They said they had 
also contacted the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) who were dealing with chargeback disputes 
for holidays not covered by ABTA or ATOL, and once the claim was approved, Nationwide 
would put the funds into Ms Ls account by 3 May 2020. 
On 4 May 2020, as Ms L hadnt received the funds, she contacted Nationwide to chase the 
payments. Ms L received a refund for £550 on 5 May through the chargeback that was 
raised. 
Nationwide sent a follow up letter on 15 May, saying that although theyd stated the funds 
would be in Ms Ls account by 03 May 2020, this didnt happen. Nationwide recognised this 
caused Ms L further inconvenience and they credited her account with a further £50.00 to 
compensate her for this. 
Ms L remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. She was also unhappy 
that she hadnt received the payments she had made to T through direct debit and wanted 
this to also be considered by our service.
In their submissions to us, Nationwide told our service that although a Visa dispute was 
raised against the card payments made to T, as the services werent received, they werent 
able to raise a DDI for the same reason. They went on to explain that a DDI could only be 
raised if Ms L hadnt given permission for the direct debit to be taken, if the payment had not 
been authorised, or if the dates and amount differed to what was agreed. As Ms L had 
authorised the payments, Nationwide said the transactions wouldnt be covered under the 
Direct Debit Guarantee.Our investigator reviewed Ms Ls case and said in relation to the card payments, Ms L was 
ultimately not provided with a service she had paid for, but that she had been refunded for 
these as Nationwide had raised a chargeback for these payments.
In relation to service, the investigator agreed Ms L had received a poor level of service from 
Nationwide and that she was given incorrect information numerous times. However, as Ms L 
had received a refund for the card payments, and also £200 compensation for the poor level 
of service from Nationwide, the investigator felt this was fair in the circumstances and didnt 
feel a further award was needed.
With regard to the direct debit payments, the investigator explained that the DDI couldnt be 
used for contractual disputes and didnt guarantee a refund. The investigator explained that 
the dispute which Ms L was raising wasnt covered under the DDI, as she had authorised the 
payments, and didnt think Nationwide was wrong to decline this for Ms L.
Ms L was unhappy with the investigators assessment. In summary, she explained how she 
was unhappy that Nationwide had refunded other customers in a similar position to her but 
had refused to refund her. She felt it was unfair that some customers, who requested a direct 
debit refund for the same reasons as her, were refunded by Nationwide whilst she wasnt.
As no agreement could be made, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this situation has been going on for some time for Ms L, and its caused her a lot of 
worry. Having considered all the information available and what Ms L and Nationwide have 
told us, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons, 
which I appreciate will come as a disappointment to Ms L. I will go on to explain my findings 
below.
Chargeback
There are different ways that a bank can assist consumers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided.
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules and in this case that is the Visa card scheme. In certain circumstances the 
process provides a way for Nationwide to ask for a payment Ms L made to be refunded. 
Those circumstances can include where goods or services arent supplied by the company 
Ms L paid. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer 
asks for one. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where 
the right exists and there is some prospect of success.  
A merchant can defend the claim and if it provides a valid defence  the bank might decide 
not to take any further action. Or the bank can re-present the claim if it considers the 
merchant has raised a weak or invalid defence. And if the merchant continues to defend the 
claim the bank can take matters to an arbitration process, whereby Visa decides who should 
get to keep the funds.
 I am pleased to see that in this case, a chargeback was raised for Ms L, and she received a 
refund for the payments she made on her Visa debit card totalling £550. 
What Ms L remains unhappy about is not receiving a refund for the other two payments she 
made to T through a direct debit and the overall level of service she received. I will go on to 
deal with both in turn below. 
Direct debit payments 
Firstly, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms L. Its not in doubt that 
Ms L made payments for a holiday which was then cancelled through no fault of her own. 
So, I can understand why Ms L feels frustrated and upset that she hasnt been provided a 
refund for the two direct debit payments. 
But this alone doesnt mean Nationwide had a responsibility to refund the payments Ms L 
made under the Direct Debit Guarantee. For me to say Nationwide have done something 
wrong, Id need to see they failed to operate within the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee 
when rejecting Ms Ls DDI claim. Or, that they acted unfairly by doing so. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case. 
Theres no dispute Ms L authorised T to set up a direct debit, and that in doing so, she was 
authorising them to take money from her account, and also authorising Nationwide to allow 
the payment to go through. Ms L says that she should have received a refund under the 
Direct Debit Guarantee for the two direct debit payments from her account. 
The Direct Debit Guarantee covers DDI claims for unauthorised payments. The scheme 
website explains, customers are entitled to a full and immediate refund from their bank if an 
error is made in the payment of the direct debit. The website also gives examples to clarify 
what payment errors are covered by the guarantee: for instance, if a payment is taken on 
the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
Its not in doubt that Ms Ls account was debited on two occasions on 25 Jan 2019 for 
£266.80 and on 26 March 2019 for £199.29. But Ive seen no evidence to show Ms L 
disputed any of these transactions until she received the news that T had gone into 
administration and that her holiday was cancelled. Had this been an unauthorised 
transaction that Ms L didnt agree for a company to take, I wouldve expected Ms L to query 
this with Nationwide at the time the first payment was taken. And I cant see that she did. 
As I am satisfied that Ms L agreed to set up the direct debit payments, its not a payment 
issue  which is what the guarantee covers. Instead, Im satisfied its essentially a 
contractual dispute  as its about services not received. The Direct Debit Guarantee terms 
are clear in saying claims of this nature falls outside of its scope. Because of this, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to say Nationwide acted outside of the guarantee when rejecting 
the claim or acted unfairly when doing so. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say they 
should refund Ms L the payments she made to T.
I appreciate that Ms L has said Nationwide has provided other customers, in her situation, a 
refund under the Direct Debit Guarantee, but I havent seen any compelling evidence to 
support this claim. I dont consider that anyone wouldve been treated more favourably in 
similar circumstances to Ms L, but in any event, even if I was provided with such evidence, 
what Im considering here are the individual circumstances of her complaint. And Im not 
persuaded that Nationwide is responsible for refunding Ms L the two direct debit payments. I 
appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms L, who has clearly been left in a difficult situation. But, for the reasons given above, I dont think Nationwide have done anything wrong, and it 
doesnt need to refund the two direct debit payments taken from Ms Ls account.
Level of service 
There is no dispute here that Nationwide didnt always deal with Ms Ls complaint as it 
should have. Ms L had to continuously chase Nationwide for updates, she was given 
misinformation and overall received a poor level of service when she contacted Nationwide 
to receive a refund for her cancelled holiday.
I have no doubt Ms L was caused inconvenience by that, and I have considered what an 
appropriate level of compensation should be to reflect the level of service she received. 
However, in doing so, Ive also had to take into account how the last year was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, dealing with significant numbers of enquires, 
claims and complaints from consumers as the global pandemic unfolded. 
Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were relatively novel, and the banks 
were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at a very unusual time. So, when 
assessing what if anything Nationwide needs to do in this case, I need to consider the 
operational challenges they faced during this period. 
In Ms Ls case, whilst Nationwide ultimately couldve provided a better service, Im satisfied 
she received her chargeback refund fairly quickly and I dont consider the length of time, 
from when she first contacted Nationwide to when she received her refund, as 
unreasonable, especially given the circumstances at the time. However, I do agree that 
Nationwide couldve provided a better level of service during that time. 
However, I can see that Nationwide have fairly apologised for the customer service issues 
they caused Ms L and paid her £200 compensation in recognition of this. Taking into 
account all the circumstances, I consider this to be fair and reasonable and as such, I wont 
be asking Nationwide to give any further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has 
already done enough to put things right for Ms L by refunding the card payments and paying 
her £200 compensation for the poor level of service she received. As such I dont propose 
any further action to Nationwide
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman