DRN-1845005
The complaint
Mr W complains about Phoenix Life Limited. He says two whole of life policies set up in his 
name werent taken out by himself. He wants Phoenix Life to return some of the premiums 
and to make the policies paid up.
What happened
Two whole of life insurance polices were set up in 1998 and 2002 with a firm that Phoenix 
Life has since acquired liability for. The policies provided sums assured of £3,000 and £767 
in the event of Mr Ws passing - with monthly premiums of £19.19 and £8 respectively.
Mr Ws wife sadly passed away in 2015. And shortly after this Mr W arranged for the direct 
debit payments for the two policies to come from an account in his name.
Mr W contacted Phoenix Life in late 2019 requesting policy information. He subsequently 
complained to Phoenix Life about the policies saying he never took them out and that the 
benefits payable will be less than the premiums paid. He was also dissatisfied that Phoenix 
Life no longer had the original proposal forms available and that he was given incorrect 
information about the cover provided. Mr W requested the policies become paid up.
Phoenix Life partially upheld the complaint. They said they wouldnt agree to the request for 
the policies to be paid up, as cover stops when premiums are no longer paid. And, as 
insurance policies rather than saving plans, they dont provide a surrender or paid up value. 
They explained that depending on the date the policies pay out, it is possible that the 
premiums can exceed the benefit(s) payable. 
Phoenix Life confirmed the policies were set up on a non-advised basis and offered as part 
of a marketing campaign. They clarified when the policies were set up and the benefits they 
provided  and that cover commenced immediately on both policies as theyd pay out in the 
event of accidental death in the first year. But Phoenix Life accepted not having the original 
application forms or policy documents was poor record keeping. In recognition of this they 
arranged for £100 compensation to be paid to Mr W  although a £150 cheque was 
subsequently sent. Phoenix Life however, in response to Mr Ws assertion that he didnt set 
up the policies, said they accepted application forms in good faith and confirmed policy 
schedules wouldve been sent and addressed to Mr W only. 
The complaint was brought to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
didnt think Phoenix Life had to do anything further. She said it wasnt uncommon for 
businesses to no longer have copies of application forms for policies taken out a long time 
ago  particularly when the businesses have changed over time. And so, in the absence of 
these documents, she didnt think she had enough evidence to say Phoenix Life had acted 
wrongly or that the policies had been taken out by someone else.
She explained that, as Mr W says he didnt pay the premiums before 2015, he hadnt 
suffered a financial loss up until that point in time. And, when he then provided his account 
details for the direct debit payments to be taken from, it was up to him to understand what he 
would be paying for. So, our investigator thought Mr W ought to have been aware of the policies from that point onwards, and she didnt think any premiums should be returned. Our 
investigator also added that she couldnt ask for the policies to be paid up as that isnt how 
they work.
Mr W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr Ws dissatisfaction with finding out the premiums paid exceeds the level of 
benefit payable. And that the policies benefits arent what he expected when he took over 
paying the premiums in 2015. But what I must consider here is whether Phoenix Life has 
acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policies. And, while I know this isnt the outcome Mr 
W is hoping for, I dont think they have. Ill explain why. 
The policies were offered through a direct marketing campaign. As such, the product 
literature was sent out and it was for the individual to decide whether the cover was suitable 
for their needs when applying. Unfortunately, due to the time that has since passed, Phoenix 
Life no longer has the application forms for the policies in question. I understand Mr W feels 
very strongly about Phoenix Life not having such records but, given the policies were set up 
in 1998 and 2002, this isnt surprising. This is because businesses arent required to keep 
documentation indefinitely. 
I understand Mr W says he never applied for the policies and that its likely his wife did. But, 
in the absence of the application forms, I cant be sure what details were provided at the time 
or who the policies were set up by. That said, I think it was reasonable for Phoenix Life to 
accept the application forms in good faith and set up the policies accordingly. And, as Mr W 
has confirmed that his wife paid the premiums up until 2015, it seems that he hasnt suffered 
a financial loss up to this point  although he did benefit from the cover being place.
Mr W did however start paying the premiums for both policies from 2015. I appreciate this 
was a very difficult time for Mr W, as he was struggling with his wifes passing as well as his 
own ill-health. I dont underestimate the impact this had on him. But I think its reasonable to 
have expected Mr W to have checked the policies were appropriate for his circumstances 
when he decided to start paying the premiums. So, I dont think I can hold Phoenix Life 
responsible for Mr W wrongly assuming they were whole of life with-profits policies (and 
thereby had an investment or surrender benefit).
Mr W has had the benefit of the cover both before and after he started paying the premiums. 
Ive noted his dissatisfaction that Phoenix Life has received more in premiums than the 
policy benefits payable. But, as is the nature of insurance, this is a policy risk. The policies 
also dont provide any surrender or cash in value. So, while I know Mr W would like the 
policies to become paid up, the terms dont allow this. I therefore dont think Phoenix Life is 
required to offer this to Mr W.
I understand Mr W would also like the premiums hes paid since he raised the complaint to 
be given to a nominated charity. While I respect the generosity behind his request, I dont 
think I can fairly direct Phoenix Life to do this. This is because Mr W had the choice of 
cancelling the policies  and stopping premium payments  when he made the complaint. 
And so, it was his choice to continue paying the premiums to ensure the cover remained in 
place. If, however, Phoenix Life wish to agree to such a request then it would be at their 
discretion.Phoenix Life has paid Mr W £150 for their poor record keeping. I realise Mr W remains 
dissatisfied that the policy documentation has been lost and that he will also be disappointed 
by this outcome. But, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Phoenix Life has to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman