DRN-3963349
The complaint
Mr S complains about Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen). Hes unhappy that 
despite telling Origen which provider he wished to transfer the proceeds of benefits he held 
in a Defined Benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to, he was advised to transfer 
elsewhere. Mr S says Origen misled him from the outset, causing avoidable hassle, 
inconvenience, and costs, for which hed like to be compensated.
What happened
Mr S held pension benefits in his employers DB scheme. A quote was provided in early 
November 2021, confirming his transfer value was over £170,000. 
In mid-November 2021, Mr S approached Origen for advice about his DB pension. He was 
provided with Origens Client Fee Agreement, Terms of Business and Financial 
Questionnaire. An initial meeting took place, during which Origen gathered information about 
Mr S circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. 
Further discussions took place, after which Origen issued its suitability report in January 
2022, recommending that Mr S transfer the proceeds of his DB pension to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with a pension provider Ill refer to as, Provider A. By doing so, 
Origen said that, amongst other things, Mr S would meet his main objective of investing the 
proceeds of his DB pension for the benefit of his daughter when he passed away. 
Mr S accepted Origens recommendation and returned the relevant forms to proceed with 
the transfer to Provider A. However, shortly after this, Mr S sent Origen a transfer form from 
a pension provider Ill refer to as, Provider B. He asked Origen to complete the form, 
confirming a transfer to Provider B was possible. Origen replied, saying it wasnt comfortable 
doing this as it could be interpreted that it was advising Mr S to transfer to Provider B when 
this wasnt the case.
Notwithstanding its response, Mr S then asked Origen to amend its recommendation to 
reflect that it was advising him to transfer to a provider of his choosing. Origen confirmed 
again that this wasnt something it was prepared to do as it might not be suitable.
Mr S made further requests and questioned why, after telling Origen at the outset that he 
intended to transfer to Provider B, it never told him that this might not be possible. 
Mr S DB pension quote eventually expired, so a new one was issued. Origen, in turn, issued 
an addendum to its suitability report, taking into account Mr S new transfer value, however, 
its advice remained the same.
Ultimately, Mr S accepted Origens recommendation, so the proceeds of his DB pension 
were transferred to Provider A. He subsequently transferred his benefits to Provider B.
Mr S later complained to Origen for misleading him about the transfer process and making 
him take an unnecessary additional step in order to invest his funds as he wished. In doing 
so, Mr S said Origen had caused him to incur avoidable costs, as well as inconvenience and 
wasted time.
Origen provided its final response to Mr S complaint and, in summary, said:
It provided Mr S with a clear explanation about its services at the outset to ensure his 
expectations about the advice it could give were correctly managed. It explained 
there was no guarantee its advice would be to transfer, and that its fee would be 
payable whatever the advice was.
Origen used a preferred panel of pension providers when considering the potential 
destination of any pension transfer. Again, Mr S was made aware of this at the 
outset.
Although Mr S said his preference had been to transfer to Provider B, there was 
nothing to indicate this was discussed or that Origen ever led him to believe that a 
transfer to it would be included as an option as part of its considerations. 
Given that Mr S ultimately accepted its advice, it was fair to assume he was happy 
with it.
Unhappy with Origens response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and, in summary, said:
Shed listened to recordings of calls between Mr S and Origen and heard nothing 
indicating that Mr S told Origen that he wanted to transfer to a SIPP with Provider B. 
Bearing in mind information Origen provided Mr S with about the service it provided, 
she didnt think it had done anything wrong, warranting a refund of its advice fee or 
payment for the fees Mr S had paid to Provider A following the transfer.
Mr S responded, accepting that Origens advice fee was payable irrespective of the advice it 
gave, however, he maintained that the fees hed incurred from transferring to Provider A 
wouldve been avoided if Origen had advised him to transfer to Provider B in the first place. 
He added that he still felt Origen should pay compensation for time and effort hed had to put 
in to transfer where he wanted to, which couldve been avoided but for Origens actions.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding Mr S complaint. Ill explain why. But, before I 
do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, 
Ive limited my response to the issue I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say, 
whether Origen misled Mr S in the way hes claimed, causing him to lose out financially and 
suffer avoidable distress and inconvenience.
Mr S position is that, at the very outset, he made Origen aware of his intention to transfer to 
Provider B. Because of this, he says he was shocked when, upon reading the suitability 
report, he discovered that Origen had advised him to transfer to Provider A. He considers 
that Origen misled him about its advice process.
If Mr S intention was to transfer to Provider B and his expectation was that Origen would 
make this happen, I can appreciate his disappointment with Origens recommendation. 
However, to determine whether Origen did anything wrong, I think the key considerations here are what Origens role was, what Mr S was led to expect about the service Origen was 
providing, and whether Origen acted in accordance with the agreement it had with Mr S 
about this.
As Mr S financial adviser, Origen had an overarching duty to act in his best interests. And 
given the substantial benefits and guarantees Mr S would be giving up by transferring, 
Origens role wasnt to simply justify and make the transfer happen, ensuring the proceeds of 
Mr S DB pension were transferred to his preferred provider. In line with the regulators  the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  position, Origens significant and overriding 
responsibility was to assess Mr S objectives against his overall circumstances, determine 
what course of action would help meet these objectives and, above all, place him in the best 
possible position in retirement. The recommendation also needed to be robust and clearly 
demonstrate through evidence that it was suitable. If Origen had advised Mr S to transfer to 
Provider B primarily on the basis that this was what Mr S had said he wanted to do, it would 
have failed to meet its regulatory obligations. So, Im unable to agree with Mr S view that 
Origen acted inappropriately simply because its recommendation didnt say that Mr S should 
transfer to the provider he says he told it he wanted to. This wouldnt have been appropriate 
action for it to take.
Ive carefully reviewed the information Origen gave Mr S about its services and the nature of 
its advice. Having done so, I think it was clear  both in its discussions with Mr S and the 
documentation it provided him with  about the approach it would be taking. There was also 
no indication that, having been made aware of Mr S preference to transfer to Provider B, it 
would be treating this as an instruction and providing advice in support of this.
Notably, the Terms of Business document Origen provided Mr S with before he engaged it 
as his adviser said the following:
When we provide advice, Origen is responsible for ensuring that the recommendation is 
appropriate to you (). Any advice or recommendations we provide will be based on your 
stated investment objectives ().
The investment advice we provide to you is defined as restricted. We have chosen to restrict 
the products that we advise on to those that we feel are more appropriate for our customers. 
() We are also not tied to any product providers when assessing which is most suitable for 
your needs. 
We expect, as do the [FCA], that it is unlikely to be common for clients who are seeking 
advice to disregard that advice. However, should you reject our recommendation and wish to 
pursue a different course of action Origen may consider facilitating your request. However, 
please note that Origen are not duty bound to accept any client requests as we do not have 
to accept client instructions ()
If you subsequently decide not to proceed with any recommendations made in our Advice 
and Recommendations Report, the advice fees will still be payable ()
The responsibility for the investment advice, as part of transfer advice, is held by Origen and 
we will make recommendations on products and investment solutions we have confidence 
in. If you wish to self-select an investment strategy, we recommend you work with an 
alternative firm to provide you with pension transfer advice ().
Here, I think Origen was clear about the following: 
Its advice would consider any specific investment objectives Mr S shared with it.The advice it provided was restricted, meaning that it only recommended certain 
products and investment solutions which it believed in. 
If Mr S chose to go against Origens advice and wished to take alternative action, 
Origen could consider facilitating this request, however it wasnt obligated to do so. If 
Mr S wanted to choose his own investment strategy, he would need to work with 
another adviser whod provide pension transfer advice.
Its advice fee was payable irrespective of whether Mr S chose to move forward with 
its recommendation.
Overall, Im satisfied that Origen was sufficiently clear about the type of adviser it was and 
the service it would be providing, such that Mr S was able to make an informed decision 
about appointing it. So, Im unable to agree that Origen misled Mr S in this respect.
Although Mr S has said that he repeatedly made Origen aware of his wish to transfer to 
Provider B, Im afraid the available evidence doesnt reflect this. The Fact Find Mr S 
completed with Origen stated he was seeking advice because he was looking to transfer out 
of his DB pension and invest the proceeds for the benefit of his daughter when he passed 
away. While it was recorded that Mr S held an existing Defined Contribution (DC) pension 
and stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Provider B, there was no 
mention of it being the provider he was hoping to transfer to. 
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) Origen arranged for a third party to carry out was based 
on the assumption that Provider A was the intended destination for the proceeds of Mr S DB 
pension, not provider B. Similarly, from the recordings of Mr S calls with Origen, any 
discussion about him wanting to transfer to Provider B, is noticeably absent.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
more likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. I appreciate that Mr S feels he shared his intentions about Provider B with 
Origen, but Im afraid I havent seen any evidence which supports this. If Origen had been 
made aware of Mr S position, I wouldve expected this to be recorded in one of the many 
documents produced as part of the advice process and captured in recordings of calls 
between Mr S and Origen. The fact that it wasnt indicates to me that Origen wasnt told 
about this, such that it couldve been expected to correct Mr S understanding of the advice it 
would be providing if it was wrong.
I cant see that Origen said anything which wouldve given Mr S the impression that it would 
include Provider B as a potential destination when considering the suitability of his transfer, 
or that there was any implied agreement that Origens advice would be geared towards 
making this happen. So, again, I dont find that Mr S was misled by Origen in this way.
In his original complaint, Mr S said he was seeking a refund of Origens advice fee, the fees 
hed paid to Provider A and compensation for distress and inconvenience he felt Origen 
caused. Following our investigators consideration of the matter, Mr S accepted that Origens 
advice fee was always payable irrespective of the advice it gave. I agree, so Ive only 
considered the payment Mr S seeks for fees hes paid to Provider A and compensation he 
feels Origen should pay for distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
In terms of the payment Mr S is seeking in respect of fees he paid to Provider As fees, hes 
said that if Origen had recommended a transfer to Provider B in the first place, he wouldnt 
have had to pay these fees at all. Im unable to agree. 
As Ive said above, Origens responsibility was to provide Mr S with suitable advice about his 
DB pension, and where it determined that transferring was in his best interests, this included consideration of where his funds would ultimately be invested. So, Origen wasnt in a 
position to advise Mr S to transfer to Provider B because this was what he wanted and meet 
its regulatory obligations. Furthermore, Origen only provided restricted advice, so unless 
Provider B was one of the providers held within its preferred panel of providers  it wasnt 
this wasnt going to be a destination it recommended for a transfer.
Most significantly, Mr S wasnt under any obligation to accept Origens recommendation to 
transfer to Provider A. Origens Terms of Business and suitability report were clear about 
this. So, if Mr S wasnt happy with Origens advice and he wanted to transfer to Provider B, 
its not clear to me why he then accepted Origens advice and, in doing so, agreed to pay 
Provider As applicable fees. 
Its worth noting that Mr S accepted Origens advice to transfer to Provider A after it 
confirmed that it wasnt prepared to facilitate the transfer hed requested to Provider B. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that Mr S was aware of the implications of accepting Origens 
advice, namely that hed be transferring to Provider A and incurring any fees associated with 
this. As theres nothing indicating that Mr S incurred Provider As fees as a result of any 
failing by Origen, I wont be directing it to make the payment Mr S is seeking in respect of 
this.
Ive considered Mr S request for compensation for the distress and inconvenience he says 
Origen caused him. But while I appreciate Mr S strength of feeling on the matter and dont 
doubt the sincerity with which he brings his complaint, I havent seen anything which 
indicates such a payment would be appropriate given the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman