DRN-3501369
The complaint
Mr B complains about a default recorded on his credit file by Bank of Scotland trading as
Halifax.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr B had a current account and overdraft with Halifax. In October 2020 Halifax wrote to Mr B 
and explained it had taken the decision to close his account. Halifax asked Mr B to arrange 
repayment of his overdrawn balance and explained the account would close in two months.
Halifax issued a formal demand in January 2021 and Mr B went on to call its collections 
team. Mr B told Halifax he wanted to arrange a payment plan to clear the outstanding 
balance and had been referred to his local branch. But when Mr B visited the branch he 
was told no plan could be agreed. Mr B asked about options for setting up a payment plan 
and also gave Halifax some very personal information about his health.
On 27 January 2021 Halifax wrote to Mr B to say it had placed a 30 day hold on his account.
Mr B raised a complaint and Halifax issued a final response. Halifax agreed to wait until 
20 March 2021 for him to clear the balance in order for its default to be removed from his 
credit file. Halifax also agreed to pay Mr B £75 due to the service provided when he called 
to set up a payment plan and visited a branch.
During March 2021 Mr B spoke with Halifaxs collections team on several occasions. At 
one point, Halifax took a payment to clear the majority of the balance, but later said an 
error had been made because the payment needed to be made in branch. Halifaxs 
statements show Mr B cleared the balance on 19 March 2021 when he made a payment 
to the account.
Halifax hasnt removed the default and Mr B referred his case to this service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Halifax had treated Mr B unfairly. 
Mr B asked to appeal and explained hed been given confusing and contradictory 
information by Halifax. Mr B also said the default had an unfair impact on his credit file and 
had affected his mental health. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifaxs terms and conditions allow it to close an account by giving the customer notice of 
its intention. In October 2020 Halifax gave Mr B the required notice as set out in the terms. 
I havent found anything that shows Halifax made an error or acted unfairly when it took 
the decision to close Mr Bs account.
That being said, Ive reached a different view to the investigator. I think Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld. Mr B complains that Halifax provided confusing information about how to 
pay and when he needed to clear the balance to avoid a default. I agree.
I note Halifaxs final response said Mr B had until 20 March 2021 to clear the balance. And 
Halifaxs letter dated 20 February 2021 said Mr Bs account would be on hold until 22 
March 2021. The evidence Ive see shows Mr B cleared the balance in full on 19 March 
2021, so I can understand why he wants Halifax to remove the default, in line with what it 
agreed to do.
Im satisfied that as Mr B made the payment before 20 March 2021, Halifax should follow 
through with its offer to remove the default from his credit file.
Halifax sent Mr B a cheque for £75 to apologise for the service provided. Im not persuaded 
that figure fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience the issues raised have 
caused Mr B. Ive reviewed the collections notes in full and I can see contradictory 
information was given to Mr B. At points there were discussions about setting up a plan but 
it was later confirmed that wasnt an option for Mr B. I can understand why Mr B found the 
information provided confusing.
Halifax says Mr B could only make a payment in branch but then took a payment over the 
phone on 3 March 2021. Halifax then called Mr B back and said the payment it had taken 
hadnt been credited to the overdraft and hed have to make it up in branch. But the 
statement evidence provided and collections notes indicate the first main payment Mr B 
made on 3 March 2021 was ultimately credited to his account. And, as Ive said above, Mr 
B cleared the remaining balance on 19 March 2021.
I think Halifax caused an unreasonable level of confusion in this case and understand why 
Mr B is so upset. I also think its fair to say Mr B has had a default on his credit file for over 
a year, despite making a payment to clear the balance in line with Halifaxs offer in its final 
response. Its clear to me that the situation and requests to remove the default has caused 
Mr B a significant level of distress and I intend to increase the award to take that into 
account. In my view, the total award should be increased from £75 to £375. I think that 
figure more fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr B.
I invited both parties to respond with further points they wanted me to consider. Halifax 
said it wasnt reporting a default on Mr Bs credit file in relation to his overdraft and that it 
had recorded arrears between January and March 2021. Halifax asked me to relook at the 
settlement. 
I contacted both parties and said that as no default was reported, there was no need to 
remove it from Mr Bs credit file. But I said the date the account closed should be amended 
from November 2021 to March 2021. I also said I thought a total award of £225 was a fair 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. I asked both parties to come 
back to me with further comments. No additional points have been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, as set out above and my provisional decision. I appreciate no default was recorded on Mr Bs credit file, but I remain of the view Mr B 
experienced unnecessary distress and inconvenience due to the way Halifax handled his 
enquiries and that the his account was closed wasnt reported correctly. As a no further 
information has been received, Im going to proceed in line with the revised settlement I gave 
in my follow up email. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to settle as follows: 
- Amend the account closure date to March 2021 on Mr Bs credit file
- Pay Mr B a total of £225 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less the £75 
payment already made)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman