DRN-2794350
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 30 September 2019, Mr and Mrs F purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance 
policy, covering them for holidays taken worldwide. The agreed start date of the policy was 1 
October 2019, with the end date being 30 September 2020. The policy included cover for 
five declared medical conditions. And a premium of £689.89 was charged for the policy.
Mr and Mrs F have explained they were able to go on holiday to Europe in March 2020. But, 
on 9 April 2020, Mr and Mrs F contacted Great Lakes. Because of the coronavirus pandemic 
 and its impact on travel  they requested that Great Lakes provide them with a cash refund 
for the unused part of their insurance policy.
Great Lakes didnt agree to provide Mr and Mrs F with any cash refund for the policy. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair, so raised a complaint about how the matter had been 
handled.
Great Lakes looked into Mr and Mrs Fs concerns and said it wouldnt be providing them with 
a cash refund for their policy. It noted that Mr and Mrs F had benefitted from cover under 
their policy from its start date on 1 October 2019. And, it highlighted that the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy said that no refund would be provided, if the 14 day 
cooling-off period had elapsed when the policy was cancelled.
Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer Mr and Mrs F a pro-rata credit voucher, for the value 
of £307.25 towards;
A new annual multi trip policy. The policy would be a 15-month policy, for the price of 
a 12 month one, at the current market rates.
A deferred annual policy. Mr and Mrs F could purchase this 12-month policy, at the 
current market rates. And could then chose to start the cover any time within 12 
months of purchasing the policy.
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with, subject to terms and conditions, the potential 
to upgrade the destination on the policy at a later date.
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair. They remained of the opinion they should be provided 
with a cash refund. Because they remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this 
service for an independent review. When referring their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs F said 
they thought a cash refund of around £500 would be fair. And, they highlighted their need to 
shield at home from March 2020.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 1 October 2019 and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs F with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs F first requested cancellation of 
the policy on 9 April 2020, to the end date of the policy on 30 September 2020.
Our investigator noted that Great Lakes hadnt calculated its refund from the date 
Mr and Mrs F first contacted it to cancel the policy  9 April 2020. Instead, it has calculated 
the refund from 21 April 2020. However, with this services involvement, Great Lakes agreed 
to correct this, and provide a pro-rata refund from 9 April 2020, to the end date of the policy, 
30 September 2020. This equated to £329.87 to be provided in voucher form. 
The investigator also clarified that once one of the above options were selected, the new 
policy would need to be bought immediately.  
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators opinion. Mr and Mrs F said they accepted 
that a pro-rata voucher for unused cover was reasonable  if not morally fair. But they noted 
that other insurers had provided cash refunds, and they felt Great Lakes should do so in this 
case too.
In addition, Mr and Mrs F said they felt Great Lakes were obtaining a profit for the global 
pandemic, which had meant they werent able to travel, from 23 March 2020 when the 
United Kingdom when into lockdown, and they had needed to shield. 
Because Mr and Mrs F didnt agree their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint further because;The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs F.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs F wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy, given the pandemic and the need to shield. But I dont think 
their reasons for cancelling the policy reasonably fall into what would be considered 
exceptional circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs F were insured from 1 October 2019, when policy started, until they cancelled it, 
on 9 April 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 50 days in 
duration. At this point, whether Mr and Mrs F went on any trips or not (and they did go on 
one), Great Lakes were covering the risk of a claim occurring. And the premiums charged to 
them, reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont provide 
a refund for this period of cover.
Mr and Mrs F cancelled their policy on 9 April 2020. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, 
Mr and Mrs F were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under their 
insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the policy 
from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from that 
point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do think 
it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs F with a pro-rata refund, from 
9 April 2020, to the policy end date of 30 September 2020. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs F feel that the refund should be paid to them in cash, rather than 
in a voucher. They have concerns about travelling again in the future and have explained 
they have lost faith in travel insurance as a result of this case. But Im satisfied a voucher is 
a fair alternative to a monetary refund here. I agree with the investigator that the terms of the 
voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs F arent unreasonably restrictive as theyve 
been offered different options. They would be able to use it for other trips, whether in the UK 
or abroad, given the terms and conditions of the voucher  including the ability to defer it by 
12 months. And, I have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs F were willing to travel previously, 
despite the medical conditions declared to Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs F have also highlighted that other insurers have provided a cash refund to their 
policyholders. Thats a commercial decision those insurers are entitled to take. But that 
doesnt mean the provision of a voucher is an unfair or unreasonable offer for Great Lakes to 
make.Im also satisfied the value attached to the voucher is now fair and I dont think Great Lakes 
has treated Mr and Mrs F differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes has now calculated the voucher 
amount from the date Mr and Mrs F first contacted Great Lakes about cancelling the policy  
9 April June 2020, to the date the policy was due to end, 30 September 2020. This meant 
there would be 175 days of the policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which 
equates to £329.87 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not 
on risk for the 175 days after the policy was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. 
And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has now 
offered Mr and Mrs F is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman