DRN-3031039
The complaint
Mr D complains Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a loan. 
I know that when PPI was sold, Canada Square was trading as Egg. To keep things simple, 
Ill refer mainly to Egg for the rest of this decision
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr D in August 2006 at the same time as the application for the loan was 
made. It looks as though the loan was repaid in or around 2013. 
On 12 August 2013, Egg wrote to Mr D to say that something may have gone wrong when 
the PPI was sold. And he was invited to make a complaint about the way PPI was sold. I 
havent seen anything to suggest a complaint was made in response to that 
correspondence. 
Mr D then instructed a representative and a complaint was made to Egg on 9 January 2018. 
The grounds for that complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that the amount of 
commission Mr D paid for the PPI premiums was unfair.  
Egg said that Mr D hadnt replied to the letter it sent in August 2013 and so it thought the 
complaint about the alleged mis-sale was made too late. But it did refund the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. It did this because it 
didnt tell Mr D about the high level of commission and profit share he would pay. Egg 
agreed that was unfair.
The complaint about both the mis-sale and commission was then referred to us. Egg didnt 
agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold (the alleged mis-sale) 
because it said the complaint had been referred to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ds complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Eggs payment in respect of commission 
was a fair way to resolve the complaint
Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It was argued that the letter 
Egg sent to Mr D didnt deal adequately with all of the things that allegedly went wrong with 
the sale. In the alternative, it was argued that the commission Egg paid to Mr D was unfair.  
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can I consider the mis-sale complaint? 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made:
more than six years after the event being complained about, which would be the PPI 
sale in this case; or
more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of cause for complaint. This section applies only where the complaint 
has been brought more than six years after the PPI sale. 
These requirements are set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found 
online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. And in this case Egg hasnt agreed 
that I can consider the complaint.  
As I said above, Mr Ds complaint was made in January 2018, which is more than six years 
after Egg sold the policy to him in 2006. So, I next need to consider whether the complaint 
was made within three years of when Mr D should reasonably have been aware he had 
cause to complain. 
Egg says it sent Mr D a letter in August 2013 which alerted him to the possibility something 
might have gone wrong with the policy sale. Ive seen evidence to suggest this letter was 
sent to Mr D at his residential address. I note from the PPI questionnaire that part of Mr Ds 
complaint was that PPI was sold to him as part of a package with his loan. The letter Egg 
sent to Mr D in 2013 does highlight that it should have been made clear to Mr D that the PPI 
was optional. So I think Mr D should have reasonably been aware he had cause for 
complaint in August 2013 when that letter was sent. 
That means Mr D needed to make the complaint about the alleged mis-sale of PPI by 
August 2016. As the complaint was not made until January 2018, it is out of time under the 
rules I must apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the complaint was 
out of time because of exceptional circumstances. Those representing Mr D havent 
provided me with any reasons for the delay as such. Instead, it was argued that the 2013 
letter didnt deal with everything that went wrong with the PPI sale. But I dont consider it 
necessary for Egg to have alerted Mr D to absolutely everything that could have gone wrong 
with the sale. In this case, Mr D complained that PPI was sold as part of a package. And Egg 
put him on notice in 2013 that it should have told him the PPI was optional. With all of this in 
mind, I cant reasonably say exceptional circumstances apply in this case. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr D with the complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
failure to disclose resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Egg should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
Eggs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?Egg didnt tell Mr D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. So 
I have taken into account: 
The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Egg and Mr D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Egg didnt disclose the high levels of commission and profit share in this case. 
With these things in mind, I dont think Egg acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
D because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider, in all the circumstances, what amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ds representative has made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr D should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Egg failed to tell Mr D about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was further argued that the 
these things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Mr D wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. The representative 
submitted that Mr D should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipshould be considered at step 2.
I have considered the relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, my role 
as an ombudsman is to determine what would represent fair compensation to remedy the 
unfairness caused by Egg not disclosing the high level of commission to Mr D before the 
policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; 
I am not, as Mr Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Eggs failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons 
Ive given above. I think it was fair for Egg to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr D paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I am satisfied that Eggs refund of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Egg has already made a refund to Mr D on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ds complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Canada 
Square Operations Limited must pay Mr D an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As Canada Square Operations Limited has already calculated compensation 
and refunded Mr D on this basis, I do not require it to do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman