DRN-2546972
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited was responsible for him receiving inappropriate 
advice in 1990 regarding him taking a personal pension plan rather than joining an 
occupational pension scheme.
What happened
The advice Mr S received, and the personal pension plan he was sold, were provided by 
Legal and General (L&G). It was L&G that originally answered Mr Ss complaint. But 
recently L&G has sold that part of its business to ReAssure. So it is that firm that is now 
responsible for Mr Ss complaint. But since L&G has been responsible for this matter until 
very recently, I will generally refer to that firm throughout this decision.
In 1990 Mr S received advice from L&G relating to his future pension savings. As a result of 
that advice he took out a personal pension plan with L&G instead of joining an occupational 
pension scheme. Mr S did eventually join the occupational pension scheme in 1997.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some 
pension advice relating to membership of occupational pension schemes had been in the 
best interests of consumers. So all firms were required to offer to review the advice that had 
previously been provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of 
incorrect advice to not join an occupational pension scheme.
In 1998 L&G told Mr S that it had completed a review on the advice it had given to him. That 
review concluded that Mr S had lost out because of the advice hed received to not join the 
occupational pension scheme. So L&G offered to pay some compensation into Mr Ss 
pension plan. Mr S accepted that offer by signing a reply form and L&G paid the 
compensation in November 1998.
The form Mr S signed confirmed that his acceptance of the offer would be in full and final 
settlement of all claims about the advice hed been given. It told him that if he was unhappy 
with the offer he could raise the matter with L&G senior management. Or it told him he could 
raise a complaint with the PIA Ombudsman scheme  a predecessor of this Service.
Recently Mr S has gathered information about the benefits that are due to him from the 
occupational pension scheme he belatedly joined. He says that he would have been much 
better off becoming a member of his occupational pension scheme at the outset. So he 
asked L&G to reconsider whether the advice it had given him in 1990 had been appropriate. 
L&G explained that the pensions review exercise was intended to be a one-off and so it 
wasnt appropriate for it to reconsider whether the advice it had given in 1990 was in Mr Ss 
best interests.
Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has been assessed by one of our 
investigators. He said that he hadnt seen anything to suggest L&G had failed to carry out 
the review in line with the regulators guidance. And since he agreed with L&G that the 
review had been designed as a one-off exercise he didnt think L&G needed to do anything 
further. 
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by L&G. Having done so I dont think I need to consider 
whether the advice Mr S was given by L&G in 1990 was suitable as I will explain below.
The review that L&G completed for Mr S in 1998 was part of a large industry wide exercise 
supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In most cases it wouldnt be 
possible to backdate the entry of consumers into the occupational pension schemes they 
had been advised not to join. So the aim of the review was to check whether the value of the 
pension investments Mr S held with L&G would provide similar benefits to those hed have 
received from his membership of the occupation pension scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mr S, there was a long period left before their expected retirement date. So 
the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary because of 
this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the assumptions 
that all firms had to use to assess any potential loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was completed in 1998. So although the review suggested the redress L&G paid 
to Mr S would mean the pension savings he held would be expected to at least match the 
benefits he would have received from the occupational scheme at retirement, circumstances 
have meant that this isnt now the case.
The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
L&G carried out the review of Mr Ss situation as it was required to. I do understand why 
Mr S is unhappy that his expected pension benefits are likely to be less than he might have 
received from the occupational scheme. But it was the then regulators decision on how to 
deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this Service should now 
challenge or ignore.
I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mr S. Although the 
events of the intervening years could not have been anticipated, he will now be left with a 
pension that is significantly less than hed have received if hed joined the occupational 
pension scheme at the outset.
But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which the review should be 
conducted in order to consider whether incorrect advice had been given. That review was 
designed to give certainty to both businesses and consumers about what compensation 
needed to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come. So it isnt 
reasonable for me to expect ReAssure to pay additional compensation to that identified as 
necessary by the review. So I dont think ReAssure needs to do anything further on this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman