DRN-3978550
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M (instigated by Mrs M but joined by Mr M) complain about the charges applied 
to their account held with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). Mrs M says RBSs poor 
administration of the account has meant they have suffered prolonged and excessive 
charges on the remaining overdraft balance and havent been able to close the account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a joint account with an arranged overdraft with RBS. Following a marital 
separation RBS placed a marital dispute marker on the account (effective 19 November 
2015) and the account became non-operational. The account had an overdrawn balance of 
around £800 at the time. A note was placed on the account to allow credits into the account 
so the outstanding balance could be reduced, this expired after two years and interest 
continued to be applied. 
Mrs M set up a standing order from her sole account with RBS of £15 a month to service the 
outstanding overdraft debt on the joint account. When the note accepting credits into the 
account expired in March 2018 Mrs M complained that the standing order ceasing and the 
joint account no longer accepting credits led to difficulties for her. 
RBS issued a final response letter to this complaint in January 2019 upholding her 
complaint. In relation to Mr and Mrs Ms joint account it refunded interest accrued since the 
standing order failed in March 2018 and reinstated the standing order and renewed its 
instruction to allow credits into the joint account for a further two years  and explained this 
instruction would have an expiry date of 16 January 2021.
The latest instruction allowing credits into the account ceased in September 2021 a few 
months after the expiry date previously communicated, and as payments werent being 
received into the account interest started accruing and the overdraft now exceeded the £800 
limit. Mrs M complained to RBS about this. RBS says it had previously explained the 
instruction had a two year expiry date and as such no error had been made on its behalf. It 
said all interest had been applied correctly in-line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
However, to resolve the complaint it agreed:
to a renewed instruction to continue to allow credits and set the expiry date to 1 May 
2027; 
confirmed the standing order was again active from Mrs Ms sole account and that if 
it failed it would get in touch with Mrs M;
explained it was not able to give an online banking view of the joint account as the 
non-operational marker prevented this; and
as a gesture of goodwill it refunded the joint account £50 to clear the excess and 
bring it back within the overdraft limit. 
Mrs M was dis-satisfied with this and brought the complaint to this service and was joined by 
Mr M the joint account holder.
Mrs Ms main complaint points are that:
the situation on the joint account was adversely affecting her credit file; 
she had been paying £15 into the account alone amounting to over £1,000 and 
despite this the account was still £800 in debit;
that the monthly interest charge had risen to more than the £15 standing order and 
that RBS had failed to increase the standing order to cover this; and
RBS refused to transfer the account into Mr Ms sole name until the balance was paid 
off.
Mrs M wants RBS to wipe out the charges and interest incurred as she believes if the 
account had been frozen she would be clear of the balance by now.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ms concerns and reached the conclusion 
that as the account was jointly held by Mr and Mrs M they were both responsible for the 
account and as such RBS was entitled to pursue either party for the outstanding debt. 
Furthermore, our adjudicator hadnt seen any formal agreement regarding who would cover 
the overdraft debt, but thought the enforcement of any legal agreement between Mr and Mrs 
M relating to their financial matters and their divorce was outside the remit of this service.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Why I can only look at part of this complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mrs M has previously raised a complaint about the cessation of payments into the joint 
account and other administrative issues and RBS issued a final response letter to this in 
January 2019. Ive seen a copy of this and Im satisfied it fits the meaning for a final 
response as defined in the DISP rules - including the referral rights setting out the six month 
time limit. This means Mr and Mrs M had until July 2019 to refer the matter to the service. 
But didnt do so until July 2022. So I conclude the complaint was referred to us out of time 
under the rules that I have to apply.
Im allowed to investigate complaints referred outside of the time limit if Im satisfied the
delay was due to exceptional circumstances. But having considered all Mr and Mrs M have 
said I havent seen anything which I think wouldve prevented them bringing their complaint 
sooner if theyd chosen to do so. So I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here.
And as such my decision is Im unable to look into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint regarding 
payments and administrative issues on their joint account prior to January 2019 and in this 
decision I will only be considering events that happened thereafter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. 
I hope that Mr and Mrs M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Our adjudicator has already provided a detailed background to the 
complaint and I dont see any merit in repeating it here. Ours is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the main complaint points 
as outlined above. Our rules allow me to do that. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr and Mrs M has experienced and see if RBS has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr and Mrs M back in the position 
they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mrs M is unhappy that her standing order failed when RBS stopped credits being received 
into the joint account which led to the account going over its overdraft limit. My 
understanding is that the standing order was set up as part of an informal arrangement 
between Mrs M and RBS to keep the account within its overdraft limit and avoid negative 
reporting on Mrs Ms credit file. To allow the standing order to operate RBS placed a note on 
the account allowing it to accept credits for two years after which this instruction would 
expire. I can see the expiry date was made clear in 2019 when a complaint was raised about 
the same issue. 
So I dont think RBS did anything wrong when it didnt continue to allow credits from Mrs Ms 
standing order into the joint account following the expiry date. Mrs M was told credits 
wouldnt be accepted after the expiry date and was aware from previous experience what 
the result of this would be  that her contributions would no longer be credited into the joint 
account and that the overdraft charges would continue to be applied regardless.
Despite this I can see that RBS as a gesture of goodwill refunded the account £50 which 
brought the balance back within the agreed overdraft limit and renewed the arrangement  
allowing further credits into the account - with an extended expiry date to May 2027 which I 
think is a fair considering the circumstances. I also note that the funds that were meant to 
credit the account were returned to Mrs Ms sole account so I cant say Mrs M has lost the 
benefit of these funds because of this.
Mrs M is also unhappy that RBS failed to increase the standing order amount to cover the 
overdraft interest rise. The standing order was an instruction to pay £15 from Mrs Ms 
account to the joint account  that was all. It was not a formal repayment plan for the 
overdraft - so RBS was under no obligation to increase the standing order amount in-line 
with the rise in interest rate. RBS informed all its customers about the interest rate changes 
by email in 2020 and that was all it was obligated to. As Im sure both Mr and Mrs M are 
aware having an account comes with responsibilities one of which is ensuring your account 
holds enough funds in it to service the outgoings. The account being held in joint names 
doesnt change this. Both parties are jointly and severely liable. 
I accept that Mrs M may well have experienced some difficulty in accessing the account 
online. But she received text alerts when the account was nearing or going over the limit and 
couldve requested joint account statements at any time. I cant see that Mrs M has done 
anything to mitigate this issue or that this has been due to a mistake or error of RBS. So I 
dont think I can hold RBS responsible for Mrs M not keeping up to date with the status of 
her account or not increasing the amount of her standing order. Mrs M is concerned about the negative impact this has had on her credit file and how it could 
impact her job and career. RBS does have a duty to make sure the information it reports on 
its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
Mrs M has provided a copy extract of her credit file in relation to the joint account and RBS 
has also provided the data it reported and has confirmed no adverse information has been 
reported in respect of the joint account. I can see from this that what has been reported is 
that there is an account with an overdraft limit which is a true reflection of the status of the 
account. So again, I cant say RBS has done anything wrong or made a mistake here or that 
the joint account is the cause of any adverse information reported on Mrs Ms credit file.
Finally, Mrs M is unhappy about the ongoing charges applied to their account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the amount 
RBS charges for its overdraft facility is fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to 
the costs of the service provided. Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. And providing all the charges have been applied fairly and correctly 
and in line with the terms and conditions of the account it isnt something for me to get 
involved with. And in this case RBS have continued to provide an overdraft facility on a joint 
account - where both parties have had the benefit of the funds  and as such it is entitled to 
continue to charge for this while there is a balance outstanding.
I understand that Mrs M feels strongly that she has been the only one contributing to the 
account and wants her name taken off the account. But ultimately the account is held jointly. 
This means that both Mr and Mrs M are both equally responsible for the management of the 
account and liable for any outstanding debt. This is outlined in the terms and conditions of 
the account. So I dont think it would be fair to ask RBS to only pursue one party to a debt 
that was incurred jointly. Especially when it has more of a chance in having the debt repaid 
when it has more than one party it can pursue.
I accept Mrs Ms frustration at all of this, and that until she comes to an agreement with Mr M 
regarding the repayment of the overdraft the situation will remain the same and that is 
unsatisfactory. But I dont see why RBS should be penalised for something that is out of its 
control. 
So it follows that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman