DRN-3288671
The complaint
Mrs P complains on behalf of her late husband that National Savings and Investments (NS & 
I) continued to send prize cheques in her husbands name after she had asked them not to, 
and that they didnt process a withdrawal from her account as quickly as they should have, 
which caused her additional expense and inconvenience.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr P passed away. He left his estate to his daughter, with his wife and 
daughter both as executors.  
Mrs P completed and sent in a form advising of her husbands death in May and in June she 
wrote and asked that any prize cheques were reissued to her as executor as Mr Ps bank 
account had been frozen. 
 
However, NS&I had already issued two prize cheques in Mr Ps name which Mrs P says she 
could not bank.  
Mrs P further complains that in September 2020 she tried to withdraw her own funds from 
NS&I to finance a house move, but she had no response, and had to borrow money to move 
house and pay a solicitor for money laundering checks. 
NS & I issued a first final response on 9 September 2020. They confirmed that they had 
been notified of Mr Ps death on 26 May 2020 and received the letter dated 9 June 2020. 
They had responded on 18 June 2020 with a valuation of Mr Ps holding and advising that 
the notification of death was sent too late to stop the prize cheques being sent. They also 
asked for a grant of probate in order to change the payee on the cheques. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
 
On 22 September Mrs P wrote to withdraw funds from her own NS&I account. These were 
not paid straight away and on 13 October Mrs P complained about this and also about the 
final response she had received in September.  
The withdrawn funds were paid into Mrs Ps bank on 14 October 2020, and a further final 
response was sent on 7 December 2020. It said that on 15 October NS&I confirmed that 
they had transferred the funds that day, and that the delay was caused by a random security 
check due to the size of the withdrawal in line with their fraud prevention procedures. 
Mrs P was unhappy with both of these responses and brought her complaints to us.  
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ps case. He thought that NS&I had acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner. 
 
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators view and the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
The prize cheques for Mr P
I can see from the documents provided to me that Mrs P completed the relevant form and 
sent it to NS&I, and they received it on 26 May 2020. However, as NS&I have explained in 
their letter dated 18 June 2018, the form wasnt processed in time to stop the prize cheques 
being sent out from the draw at the beginning of June. They also explain in this letter that 
they need a grant of probate and the completed forms to sort out repaying the prizes 
correctly. 
I think NS&I have acted fairly here. They have explained why they couldnt stop the cheques 
going out and advised Mrs P how they can move forward to resolve this if she returns the 
appropriate documents. This is the right process, because a grant of probate is the 
document which gives the executors the legal right to deal with Mr Ps property and finances. 
Until NS&I have this, they cant reissue the payments. 
Mrs P sent the grant of probate to NS&I on 9 March 2021 and so NS&I processed all the 
prizes and issued payment on 1 April 2021.  
The delay in the withdrawal of funds
I can understand that it must have been frustrating for Mrs P to be waiting for the funds for a 
period of 3 weeks whilst NS&I were undertaking their fraud checks, especially as she was 
not aware of what was causing the delay and she was waiting on these funds to complete a 
house purchase.  
Mrs P made the withdrawal on 22 September 2000 as she needed the money on 15 October 
to complete the purchase and so she had allowed plenty of time.  
Whilst I appreciate that NS&I are entitled to undertake these checks and they are not 
unusual, they should have been quite straightforward in this case, and shouldnt have taken 
more than a few days, and so I do think there was excessive delay here, and that delay 
caused stress for Mrs P and meant she had to borrow funds from her brother at the last 
minute to finance the house purchase, which also incurred a small fee from the solicitors.  
I have noted that NS&I have explained that they had staffing difficulties as a result of the 
pandemic and that some of this work was undertaken offshore. However, this was not 
communicated to Mrs P who was anxiously waiting on this money to complete her house 
purchase, and so I dont think NS&I provided the level of service here that Mrs P was entitled 
to.   
In view of that I am minded to direct that NS&I pay Mrs P £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this delay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mrs P and NS&I a copy of my provisional decision. 
Both have replied. Mrs P has accepted the decision. NS&I have said that they do not agree 
with my assessment, but they will agree to it pending the customers acceptance. They have 
noted that they have no record of Mrs P making calls to them to chase the payment. While I 
note this, it doesnt make any difference to my decision as its the delay in undertaking the 
checks and the lack of updates that has caused the inconvenience, and there is no evidence 
to suggest that a phone call from Mrs P would have shortened this time. I also think that if 
NS&I were experiencing delays in service due to the pandemic, they should have let Mrs P 
know. In view of this, Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, NS&I should pay Mrs P £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I am upholding Mrs Ps complaint and require National Savings 
and Investments to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman