DRN-1925435
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out during meetings in 2002 and 2003 in 
connection with her mortgage and a further advance. 
What happened
Mrs W complained she didnt know she had PPI; she didnt need it because she had a 
guarantor. 
HSBC said Mrs W took out PPI for her original mortgage in 2002 and amended the policy in 
2003 to cover her increased mortgage repayments when she took out a further advance.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like Mrs W was 
offered an optional policy and  although the information might have been clearer  she 
probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the available evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether HSBC made Mrs W aware the policies were optional because she 
specifically said she didnt know she had any PPI. 
HSBC should have made Mrs W aware she was adding PPI to her mortgage account in 
2002 and 2003. Neither HSBC nor Mrs W have any paperwork from the time of the first 
sale in 2002. I dont think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 18 years 
ago. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I 
think is more likely to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader 
circumstances.
Based on what I know about how HSBC sold policies like this at the time I think its likely 
the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mrs W has told me makes 
me think HSBC didnt follow its normal process here. I also noted this PPI was free for the 
first six months, so Mrs W had enough time to decide if she wanted to start paying for it 
when the free period expired. So overall, I think its more likely HSBC made it clear to Mrs 
W that she had a choice about the PPI in 2002, and that she agreed to buy it although I 
can understand why she may not remember this now.
In respect of the PPI sale in 2003, HSBC produced a copy of a separate PPI application 
form and direct debit mandate which Mrs W would have most likely signed at the time. So 
as she would have had to complete a separate PPI form, I think HSBC made it clear 
enough this was an optional product and that she consented to have the amended PPI 
policy attached to her mortgage account to cover the increased mortgage repayments.
HSBC said the sales were advised. So it had to make sure the policies were right for Mrs 
W. It also had to give her enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading to 
highlight the main points of the policies. 
I think the polices were suitable for her because she was eligible to buy them, they were 
affordable at the time and she was not affected by the exclusions and limitations in the 
policies. 
I also looked at her financial circumstances at the time to see if the PPI would have been a 
useful benefit for her.
Mrs W said she was in full time employment and would get good sick pay benefits from her 
employer if she was off sick. She confirmed her financial circumstances remained the same 
during the two PPI sales. She told us she was in good health at the time of the purchases. I 
have thought carefully about this but having decided she wanted PPI and chose to have it, I 
think Mrs W thought the policies provided a valuable benefit to her in addition to her 
employee benefits. I say this because the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in 
addition to her sick pay if she had made a successful claim.
Mrs W also told us she had a guarantor, so she didnt need PPI. I do understand her point 
 but having a guarantor doesnt automatically mean the PPI has no benefit. There are 
many reasons why a business requires a guarantor. It may be the guarantor enabled her to 
get the mortgage she needed and not because she wanted or expected the guarantee to 
be called in. So I think the PPI was useful to her because it meant she could claim on the 
policy if she needed to instead of calling in the guarantee.
I dont know how HSBC told Mrs W about the exclusions and limitations of the policy, but I 
think she was unlikely to be affected by the main exclusions as she was in good health and 
in full time employment. So I dont think she would have decided not to buy PPI even if 
shed been given a full list of the exclusions.
I also looked at whether HSBC gave Mrs W enough clear information about the cost and 
benefits. I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to Mrs W in the 
meetings. But as Ive decided she chose to have PPI and that there was a benefit in her 
having PPI, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits 
would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs W was aware the PPI was optional, it was 
of benefit to her and that she had enough clear information to make a decision. So Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman