DRN-3743188
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call T, has complained about ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschafts decision to decline its claim for business interruption losses and to avoid 
its policy. 
Mr H (as director of T) has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr H is also represented in 
this complaint but for ease, I will refer to Mr H and T throughout this decision. 
What happened
T is a pub and in May 2020, Mr H contacted ERGO to make a claim for business interruption 
losses arising from the Governments restrictions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
which required the pub to close. 
ERGO looked into the claim and initially refused it on the basis that the policy only covered 
the closure of the premises if there had been damage to the property, which there wasnt. 
Following the judgement issued in the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case on business 
interruption insurance, ERGO agreed to reconsider the claim. In the course of doing so, 
ERGO found that Mr H had previously been a director of a company (which Ill call Company 
A) which had been liquidated in 2009. ERGO says if it had known this when the policy was 
taken out, it would not have agreed to insure T. 
ERGO says it asked a clear question in the proposal form that should have elicited this 
information but Mr H did not answer this accurately. ERGO therefore said Mr H had not 
provided a fair representation of the risk. ERGO said that if it had been aware of this 
information, it wouldnt have offered cover, it therefore avoided Ts policy, returned the 
premium, and stopped dealing with the claim
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend it be upheld, as she 
was satisfied that ERGO was entitled to refuse the claim and void the policy. 
Mr H does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Mr H has made a number of points in support of his initial complaint and in response to the 
Investigator. I have considered everything he has said but have summarised his main points 
below: 
The question asked was if any director had a company become bankrupt or 
liquidated. Company A was not Mr Hs company, he was not a shareholder, so he 
thought he had answered the questions asked of him truthfully and correctly  he had 
never had a company become solvent. 
ERGO didnt ask if any directors had previously been an officer of a company that 
had become insolvent and should have done so, if thats what it wanted to know. 
The case of Ristorante Ltd t/a Bar Massimo v Zurich Insurance plc [2020] EWHC 
2538 supports its complaint about the need for insurers to ask clear questions. That 
case involved a similar question about directors and the court found that by asking 
the questions it did, that insurer had waived its right to other information. 
The reasonable interpretation of the question has to be considered and where there 
is any ambiguity, it should be construed in favour of the policyholder. 
Ts new insurer is aware of Mr Hs involvement with Company A and has provided 
cover at a lower premium than ERGO charged. It does not therefore accept that 
ERGO would not have provided cover, if it had known this information. 
He also suggests that the relevant law is not Insurance Act 2015 which applies to 
commercial customers but The Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) which applies to individual customers as he is a publican, not an 
insurance expert. CIDRA requires an insurer to ask clear and specific questions of 
the potential policyholder. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Relevant considerations
I am required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, having regard to the law and industry practice. 
Mr H says he is a publican with no expertise in insurance matters and therefore he should be  
a consumer, with the protection of the Consumer Insurance (representations and Disclosure) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
However, this is a commercial contract, linked to Mr Hs business, a pub, which he runs as a 
limited company. It may be a relatively small business (although Mr H is also director of 
other similar businesses) and Mr H may consider himself as a publican with no specialist 
knowledge of insurance but the policyholder and the complainant in this complaint is a 
limited company (i.e. T), so it is correct that it be treated as a commercial customer. 
Therefore, I consider that the Insurance Act 2015 applies, which places a greater obligation 
on the customer to disclose matters at the start of a contract, rather than CIDRA.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a fair 
presentation of risk to their insurer when taking out a policy. Section 3, subsection (4) of the 
Act sets out that this means they have to disclose: everything they know, or ought to know, 
that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on 
what terms; or enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances. 
The Act also says that 
(5) In the absence of enquiry, subsection (4) does not require the insured to disclose  
circumstance if - 
(e)  it is something as to which the insurer waives information. In the circumstances of this case, I have to consider whether Mr H, on behalf of T, gave a 
fair presentation to the insurer of everything they knew  or ought to have known  about the 
risks it wanted to insure. 
I think Mr H should have known, or ought to have known, that his involvement as director of 
a previous business that had liquidated owing substantial debts would potentially influence 
ERGOs decision to insure T. 
Mr H also suggests however that the questions ERGO did ask clearly meant it was only 
interested in knowing if any individual involved in T had owned a company that had been 
liquidated or became bankrupt and suggests therefore that it waived its right to disclosure of 
other information. 
Ive considered the questions asked by ERGO in the proposal form, when the policy was 
purchased online in July 2019. 
The first part of the proposal form says: 
It is essential that you make fair presentation of the risk that should include a full and 
unrestricted disclosure including every material fact and circumstance (a material fact 
or circumstance is material if it would influence the judgement of the insurers when 
considering whether to accept the risk and/or the assessment of the terms, condition 
or premium that should be applied). 
If you are unsure in any way that your disclosure is complete you should check with 
your insurance advisor. 
In the event you fail to make a full unrestricted disclosure insurers may refuse to pay 
your claim, pay only part of your claim, and/or void your policy
History:
Has
(i) The Proposer;
(ii) Any Director or Partner;
(iii) Any Family Member(s) that reside with at or use the insured premises or are 
involved in the business;
(iv) Any person (s) with a beneficial interest of 25% or more in the business other 
than mortgages);
(v)       Any person (s) with management control of the insured entity (other than 
letting agents) that you have contracted to manage the property been:
A) declared bankrupt, or had a company become insolvent or voluntarily gone into 
liquidation or compulsory liquidation, administration or was subject to an 
insolvency process or scheme of arrangement with creditors?
H seeks to make a distinction between being involved in a company as a director and 
having a business and that because of the reference to had a company the question is 
ambiguous at best and means that it was reasonable for T to infer that ERGO had no 
interest in previous directorships. 
I do not agree. I think it is reasonably clear that ERGO was interested in knowing about 
liquidation of companies that anyone was a director of as well as ones that they were 
shareholders of. A director has responsibilities over how a company is run, and how a company has been run under a proposers directorship would be relevant information to an 
insurer. I do not therefore think the way this question is worded is unclear or that it means 
ERGO waived its right to fair presentation of the risk. 
Taking into account all of the evidence provided, Im satisfied T failed to provide a fair 
presentation of risk to ERGO. Where a fair presentation of risk is not provided, ERGO will 
only have a remedy against the breach if it would have either not offered the policy or would 
have done so on different terms had T had provided the correct information. If this is the 
case, this will be a qualifying breach. 
Mr H has said he doesnt accept it would have made any difference, as Ts new insurer has 
issued cover knowing of Mr Hs involvement with Company A. However, each insurer has its 
own underwriting criteria and I am only able to consider what ERGO would have done, if it 
had known this information. 
Ive reviewed the relevant underwriting guidance from ERGO. It has provided evidence that it 
would not have provided cover if it had known of Mr Hs involvement with Company A. 
The relevant remedies under the Insurance Act 2015 allow ERGO to avoid the policy, refund 
premiums and decline the claim. So I think its actions were not unreasonable and were in 
line with the relevant rules. As a result, Im not directing ERGO to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman