DRN-3784059
The complaint
Ms P complains about the handling of her claim by Highway Insurance Company Limited 
(Highway) following an accident that wasnt her fault, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P was involved in a car accident in August 2020. She contacted her broker and her claim 
was initially handled by a claims management company (CMC) against the third partys 
insurer. She wasnt satisfied with its handling and subsequently contacted her insurer, 
Highway, to pursue the claim for damage repairs. 
Ms P says Highway didnt offer to arrange for its repairer to carry out the work. She found an 
independent garage able to complete the repairs on her vehicle. However, this garage hasnt 
carried out the repairs satisfactorily, and she feels she has been scammed. 
Highway says it was unable to obtain a colour match to Ms Ps vehicle using its approved 
repairers. It says this was due to the vehicles age. It says it was agreed the claim would be 
settled on a cash payment basis so Ms Ps own repairer could complete the work. It provided 
a settlement payment, which Ms P used to pay her garage. 
Highway says it understands that the garage Ms P used has gone into liquidation. The result 
of this is that her vehicle was returned to her unrepaired, having already paid for the work in 
full. Highway says that it has already paid for the repairs and isnt responsible for any further 
costs. 
Ms P didnt think this was fair and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He thought Highway handled the claim fairly. He says it did 
investigate a solution using its approved repairer. But agreed to provide a payment so Ms P 
could use the repairer she had found instead. Our investigator didnt think Highway was 
responsible for the repairers business going into liquidation. 
Ms P disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her. I 
realise this experience has been upsetting. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
From the records provided Ms Ps claim was initially being handled by a CMC. The CMCs 
involvement ended due to concerns Ms P had with its claim handling. The CMC is a 
separate entity from Highway. These companies typically offer their services in the event of 
a non-fault claim, such as the accident Ms P was involved in. The claim in these cases is 
made against the insurer of the at-fault party. 
Ms Ps insurance policy is with Highway. When Ms P ceased involvement with the CMC, she 
asked Highway to handle her claim. It did so under her policy.   
My remit here is to consider Highways involvement not that of the CMC or Ms Ps broker. I 
can see that her broker was involved in communicating between the parties. But Ms Ps 
claim is with Highway. It is responsible for indemnifying Ms P against any losses she 
incurred as a result of the accident. 
The records show it was explained to Ms P that Highway would contact the third-partys 
insurer to recover any costs incurred in the claim. It was also confirmed that her excess fee 
was being waived.
Highway arranged for Ms Ps vehicle to be inspected by an engineer. He assessed the 
damage and estimated the repairs to cost just under £3,000. However, the paint needed to 
match the vehicle couldnt be found. 
Solutions to the paint issue were considered, which included a type of device used to 
analyse and identify paint colours.   
Highways notes show it eventually agreed for the vehicle to be covered as a full respray. I 
have seen an email in which Ms P says she has sourced a local repairer who can deal with 
the repairs including the paint job. She discussed this with her broker, and it was agreed by 
Highway that it would provide a payment to allow Ms P to pay her chosen repairer for the 
work. 
I understand that Ms P paid her chosen repairer for the full cost of the repairs. She also 
arranged for additional work to be carried out on her vehicle, on top of the repairs needed 
after the accident. 
Unfortunately, the repairer Ms P used for the repairs went into liquidation. Her vehicle was 
returned to her in an unrepaired state and she hasnt had the payment she provided 
refunded. 
Ms P says Highway didnt offer to arrange its own repairer to carry out the work. If this had 
been offered, she says this is the option she wouldve taken. 
Im sorry Ms Ps vehicle wasnt repaired due to the repairer she appointed going into 
liquidation. This must have been very stressful and upsetting for her. But I dont think 
Highway treated her unfairly. I say this because it provided a payment to cover the cost of 
the repair works needed as a result of the accident. It was Ms P who suggested the repairer 
to carry out the work. It is very unfortunate that the repairer went into liquidation. But as 
Highway had paid for the cost of the work, I dont think it can reasonably be responsible for 
paying anymore. 
Ms P says she wasnt given the option of Highway arranging the repairs using its network of 
approved garages. But I dont think this was the case from the information I have seen. The 
main issue in arranging repairs was with the non-standard paint on Ms Ps vehicle. The code 
for this paint couldnt be found. However, I can see solutions were being considered, 
including the use of the paint analyser. It was Ms P who suggested the local repairer could 
complete the repairs including the paintwork before this was followed up. Highway then 
agreed to provide a payment as opposed to arranging the repairs through its network of 
repairers. Ms P agreed to this. The problem here is that the repairer went into liquidation. This wasnt Highways fault and I 
dont think it behaved unfairly in providing Ms P with a payment to allow her to arrange the 
repairs to her vehicle more quickly.  
In summary, although Im very sorry for the situation Ms P finds herself in, I dont think 
Highway treated her unfairly when handling her claim and in providing the payment it did to 
cover the cost of the repairs. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve her 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman