DRN-3666185
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not refunded payments she says she did not 
make.
What happened
Mrs Ms son was staying with her, and didnt have a mobile phone of his own, so she lent her 
phone to him so he could make a phone call. Mrs M asked her son to give the phone back to 
her as soon as he was finished with his call but as this was late in the evening she fell 
asleep, and so didnt get her phone back until the next day.
At that point she discovered that her son had made a series of payments from her HSBC 
account using Apple Pay on her phone to an online gambling company. The total value of 
the disputed payments is £2750. Mrs M immediately raised this with HSBC and asked for a 
refund, as she said she had not authorised the payments.
HSBC did not agree to refund the payments, it said this was a civil matter as the payments 
had been made by someone known to Mrs M, and because Mrs M had willingly given her 
phone to her son to use. Mrs M was unhappy with HSBCs response and asked us to look 
into her complaint.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, she felt that Mrs M had not 
consented to the payments as she had given her son her phone only to make a phone call, 
without realising that he might be able to access her Apple Pay facility. So the investigator 
felt the payments had not been authorised by Mrs M and recommended that HSBC refund 
them, plus 8% interest.
HSBC disagreed, and has now provided evidence from the merchant which shows that an 
account was set up in Mrs Ms name, using her phone number. So HSBC maintains that she 
did authorise the payments or allow them to be made.
As no agreement has been reached, this case has now been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mrs M is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them 
herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
Mrs M has explained that she did not give her son permission to make the payments to the 
gambling company. However, that doesnt automatically mean that those transactions are 
unauthorised and that they should be refunded. Its possible for Mrs M to give someone else 
authority to make transactions on her behalf  and it follows that Mrs M would then be 
responsible for them. This is the case even if this person carried out more transactions than 
Mrs M agreed to or expected and is whats known as apparent authority. 
However, apparent authority cant be given negligently. And Im not persuaded Mrs M 
deliberately gave her son her card details or access to her Apple Pay facility. Mrs M has 
been consistent in her explanation that she gave her phone to her son for the sole purpose 
of making a phone call. She didnt use Apple Pay often  as evidenced by her bank 
statements  and so hadnt appreciated that he could use her phone in the way he did. Im 
satisfied that the payments were made through deception, what Mrs Ms son ultimately used 
her phone for is totally different to what he said he would be doing. 
So, with this in mind, I dont agree that Mrs M authorised these transactions. I note that we 
wouldnt tell HSBC to refund unauthorised transactions if we considered Mrs M had failed 
with intent or gross negligence to keep her details safe. But Ive already set out above why I 
dont think Mrs M acted intentionally here and the same rationale applies to failing to keep 
her card details safe with intent. For gross negligence to apply, Mrs M would need to have 
shown a very significant degree of carelessness. And I dont think that is the case here, 
Mrs M did not regularly use her Apple Pay facility  and in any case thought that face 
recognition was required to use it  and so was not consciously aware of the possibility that 
her phone could be used by a third party to make payments in this way. And with that being 
the case, I cant reasonably say Mrs M acted with gross negligence. 
I note HSBCs recent submission of evidence from the merchant, which shows that an 
account was set up with Mrs Ms name, personal details and phone number. And a question 
has been raised as to why Mrs Ms son would use her details, and specifically her phone 
number, to open the account. But as already noted, he did not have a phone of his own, and 
was in possession of her phone at the time, so it seems entirely plausible that he would use 
her phone number to set up an account, and would use her details in general given that the 
card he was using to fund the account was in her name. And, as her son, he would have 
been well versed with her personal details for setting up the account. I also note that the 
email address on the account does seem to be in Mrs Es sons name. So nothing in the 
latest submission from HSBC has changed my findings as set out above.
With all this in mind, it follows then that as I dont consider Mrs M to have authorised the 
payments it disputes, or to have failed with intent or gross negligence to keep her card 
details safe, HSBC is liable to refund the disputed payments to Mrs M. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
- Refunding the disputed transactions, and restoring the account to the position it 
would have been in if the transactions had not been made
- Paying 8% simple interest on that refund (calculated form the date the disputed 
payments were made until the date of settlement)
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman