DRN-2394186
The complaint
Mr K complained about esure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it handled his 
motor insurance claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. I will highlight that part of Mr Ks complaint, which referred to the valuation esure 
placed on his car and the value esure paid out for the contents that were left in it when it 
disposed of his car, has been agreed. So the sole issue left to consider is whether esure 
acted fairly in disposing of Mr Ks car when he wanted to retain it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its a general principle of insurance that if an insurer pays out because a car has 
been deemed a total loss, the car becomes its property. So, esure was entitled to sell 
Mr Ks car under the policy terms and conditions. But our service generally considers 
it fair and reasonable for insurers to provide the policyholder with the opportunity to 
retain the car if they wish, provided the insurer doesnt lose out as a result - after all it 
is the consumers car until they agree to the proposed settlement.
Although esure sent Mr K a text message on 1 May 2020, Mr K says he didnt 
receive it. He says he was told the car had been deemed a total loss by a third-party 
business and called esure to discuss this. Mr K said this decision came as a surprise 
as he didnt believe the damage had been that significant. Unfortunately, the car had 
already been sold the day before Mr K made contact ten days after the text.  
esure say the option of retaining a car is only considered as a gesture in certain 
cases. But until Mr K had accepted the settlement amount of the claim, the car still 
belonged to him, and I would have expected esure to have discussed the settlement 
with Mr K before selling the car. I dont consider that sending one text message gave 
him a fair opportunity to look to retain it.
Mr K was in the process of carrying out work on his car and I can see from the 
photos provided that he had personalised the car - so it would have been particularly 
disappointing to find it had been sold without his knowledge. As the option of 
retaining his car was taken away from Mr K, I agree he should be compensated for 
that, especially as Im satisfied he wanted to keep the car.
Considering all of this, I agree with the investigator that £500 is a fair reflection of the 
stress and inconvenience caused by esures actions.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Ks complaint. esure Insurance Limited 
should pay Mr K £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman