DRN-2137854
The complaint
Mr J has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy that it settled a fault claim 
against him under his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
AXA had a report from a third party who said that Mr J had collided with their car while 
reversing. He isnt happy that it agreed he was at fault for the accident and caused damage 
to the other car. He also feels that the other driver exaggerated the level of damage caused.
Mr J initially complained to AXA about this. And it acknowledged that it shouldve kept in 
touch with him about the claim and gave him the opportunity to provide his version of events 
and offered him £250 compensation for its error here. But it thought that this didnt affect 
how the claim was settled and that it had sufficient evidence to say Mr J was at fault. As Mr J 
remained unhappy about this he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He accepted that 
AXA shouldve stayed in touch and that it may have over valued the other drivers car. But 
he thought that AXAs offer of £250 compensation in relation to its errors was fair. And 
ultimately he didnt think AXA had decided liability incorrectly.
As Mr J didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Js frustration as he just doesnt feel that he hit the other car while he 
was reversing, and if he did cause any damage he thought it was very minor. However, as 
the investigator has explained it isnt the role of this service to consider liability as that is a 
matter for the courts. But we do look at whether insurers have considered matters in a fair 
and reasonable way. And overall I think AXA decided liability fairly having considered all the 
available evidence and it has looked to compensate Mr J for the errors it did make.
AXA, like most motor insurers, has a clause in the contract that allows them to take over the 
settlement of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court or settle 
a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers are cautious about 
going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success in 
making these decisions.
But in looking to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters, I look to 
ensure that they make a reasonable assessment of the claim - based on a clear 
understanding of the evidence and circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in 
mind, I have carefully considered how AXA has handled Mr Js claim.
AXA was approached by the third party and undertook a number of enquiries in order to 
ascertain what the most likely outcome would be and to decide whether it was worth 
proceeding to court. The third party provided an account about what happened and, 
importantly in this case, some CCTV evidence of the scene. And having considered the 
account, the footage and the damage caused to the third partys vehicle I cant say that AXA 
came to an unreasonable conclusion.
It is clear though that AXA shouldve gained a clear account from Mr J at the beginning and 
he was prevented from disputing matters. However, given the evidence mentioned above I 
dont think this affected liability and I think that the £250 compensation offered is fair for this 
and the fact that AXA has said it paid too much for the third-party claim. AXA has 
acknowledged that it may have paid too much for the other sides car, but I dont think the 
amount paid will affect Mr J, so the compensation level offered seems fair.
So, although I can understand Mr Js frustration, I dont think AXA has done anything wrong 
here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman