DRN-3283535
The complaint
Ms D and Mr S complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Ms D and Mr S held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
Mr S borrowed a car from a friend while he was abroad. Unfortunately, armed robbers broke 
the cars glass and stole some contents, including the battery and the radio. 
Mr S made a claim with Great Lakes, but Great Lakes said the claim wouldnt be covered 
under either the Personal baggage and delayed baggage or the Personal Liability section 
of his travel insurance policy. Unhappy, Mr S complained to Great Lakes before bringing the 
matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think Great Lakes 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ss claim. Mr S didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer 
should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when making my decision about Ms D and Mr Ss complaint. 
Ive had regard to everything Mr S has said, but I dont intend to address each and every 
point he has raised, nor am I obliged to. Instead, Ill only be addressing what I think are the 
key issues. 
Mr S says he didnt claim under the Personal Baggage and delayed baggage section of his 
policy. Ive therefore only considered whether I think Mr S has a valid claim under the 
Personal Liability section of his policy. I dont think he has. 
Section 4 of Mr Ss policy sets out the terms of his personal liability cover. This says:
What IS covered: 
Loss of or damage to another persons property that you cause.
Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word cause, as well as the context in 
which the word is used within the policy. Ive taken into account Mr Ss submissions about 
the dictionary definition of the word cause as well as the examples he has quoted in an 
attempt to illustrate his point, but I dont agree with what he has said. Mr S may have been 
responsible for the car when he borrowed it, but this doesnt mean he was also responsible 
for the act of or results of the cars glass being broken and any ensuing theft. Even if Mr S 
replaced the glass in the car and/or could be taken to court by the cars owner, this doesnt 
mean he is the person who caused the damage. Mr S didnt cause the damage to his 
friends car - armed robbers did.
In any event, Section 4 of Mr Ss policy specifically excludes claims arising from the 
possession or use of a vehicle. So, his claim wouldnt be covered under this section of his 
policy anyway. 
Furthermore, while I understand Mr S says he wasnt given a claim form or asked to clarify 
any information by Great Lakes, an insurer is entitled to carry out reasonable investigations 
into a claim before paying it. I wouldnt make any direction for Great Lakes to pay this claim 
without knowing the details and value of what is being claimed for. 
I dont think Mr Ss claim is covered under his policy with Great Lakes, and I wont be asking 
Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms D and Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman