DRN-4163961
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) have failed to 
refund multiple transactions he says he didnt authorise between July and September 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it 
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Mr S made the 
transactions himself or gave someone permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments. In this instance, the disputed transactions 
were made online with Mr Ss Tesco Bank card through sites such as eBay and PayPal. And 
having considered the evidence, Im satisfied the more likely explanation is that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. Ill explain why. 
The explanation and testimony Mr S has provided to this service about how he uses his card 
and how it might have come to be compromised has been relatively inconsistent and 
implausible. He says he clicked on a link within a phishing email, whereby he entered his 
name, address and card details. But that doesnt explain how any potential fraudster would 
have been able to gain access to any PayPal or eBay accounts in his name in order to 
change his details and make purchases with his Tesco Bank card, as he has alleged. Mr S 
says he hasnt shared his login details with anyone, and that only he known these details. 
Both PayPal and eBay have also been unable to locate any accounts in Mr Ss name linked 
to the email addresses he has provided, and theyve said it wouldnt have been possible for 
anyone to have changed the name on the account without going through multiple security 
checks. I acknowledge he says the payments were made from a PayPal account under a 
different name, but theres no plausible explanation for how his Tesco Bank card could have 
been added to a third-party account based on what hes told this service. 
In terms of the transactions the evidence also suggest that Mr S would likely been aware 
they were being made at the time. I note that he frequently logged into his account 
throughout the period of the disputed payments between July and September 2022. And 
given the considerable number of transactions he has said were unauthorised, it seems 
unlikely that he wouldnt have noticed these being made at the time, particularly as some of 
them were almost draining his account of the funds he had recently deposited. 
Mr S has also explained that he has made purchases for his family in the past, where they 
would send him a link and he would buy it for them. Mr S said that he did see the disputed 
transactions at the time, and just assumed they were purchases made by his family. 
However, Mr S has also said that if his family wanted to buy something, he would receive a 
code from PayPal to his mobile phone which he would then authorise. In other words, his 
family were unable to buy anything themselves using his card without him knowing it. So, 
Mr S wouldve presumably been aware of any purchases he had or hadnt made on his 
familys behalf, which doesnt explain why he wouldve initially assumed the transactions 
were completed by his family if they werent ever able to make purchases without his 
authorisation. And if it wasnt possible for a transaction to be made in this way without his 
authorisation, then it doesnt explain how an unknown third party wouldve been able to do 
this either. 
I accept that Mr S had made purchases for his family in the past though. It therefore seems 
that the more plausible explanation for the disputed payments is that either Mr S authorised 
them himself or gave somebody else (such as his family) his details, thereby giving his 
consent and authority for the payments to be made on his behalf. 
I appreciate that Mr S disputes this but there is no other more plausible explanation for how 
the payments could have otherwise been made. Indeed, I note that Mr S also retracted one 
of the disputed transactions hed reported to Tesco Bank as it later transpired that his sister 
had made it. He also regularly topped up his account with funds on several occasions 
immediately prior to the disputed transactions being made, which would suggest he likely 
knew or was anticipating payments being made from his account. 
As a result, there isnt enough evidence to suggest that a scam has taken place here, or that 
an unauthorised third party carried out the transactions without Mr Ss knowledge or 
consent. So, I dont consider Tesco Bank has acted unfairly by declining to refund the 
disputed transactions, as I consider they were more likely than not to have been authorised 
by Mr S. I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to him, but I wont be asking 
Tesco Bank to take any further action.
Finally, Mr S was also unhappy that Tesco Bank didnt raise chargebacks for the disputed 
transactions. But given its likely they were authorised by him, and because they were all 
made to legitimate merchants who wouldve likely shown the goods/services purchased 
were provided, it seems there would have been very little prospect of a chargeback 
succeeding. So, I dont consider Tesco Bank acted unfairly by choosing not to pursue such a 
claim for the payments he disputed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman