DRN-3427244
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Watford Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor policy and 
refused to pay her claim.
Mr G is a named driver and was driving the car at the time of the accident, so Ive also 
referred to him in this decision.
A number of different companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Watford are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mrs G took out a motor policy with Watford through a price comparison site on 2 June 2021. 
Mr G, the named driver, was involved in the accident on 19 June 2021. The claim was 
turned down, and her policy cancelled by Watford which is recorded on an external 
database.
Mrs G was told this is because no modifications are allowed on the car  but shed added 
rear window tints and stickers to the rear of the car. She wasnt happy with this, saying the 
wording of the policy terms didnt make it clear these additions to her car would be classed 
as a modification under the policy terms. So, she complained.
Watford said shed answered the question they asked about modifications incorrectly. And, 
although they didnt put it in these terms, they considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation. So, they cancelled her policy, turned down her claim and kept the 
premium shed already paid as a result of the claim being made. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs G asked us to look into things. Initially Mrs G had asked Watford to 
settle their claim in full. But, due to a change in her and Mr Gs circumstances, they asked 
only that Watford not pursue the claim and remove the cancellation from their records.
One of our Investigators upheld Mrs Gs complaint and felt Watford should remove any 
record of the cancellation from any internal or external databases and should pay £150 
compensation. 
Watford didnt agree with this, saying their point stands about refusing to pay the claim, so 
couldnt agree to removing the record of the cancellation, or pay the £150. As a result of that, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show theyd have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford thinks Mrs G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she took out the policy online. There was a question which said, Does your car have any 
modifications?. They said theres a question mark icon next to the question which if you 
hover over gives more information  Modifications are non-standard changes made to the 
car after manufacture, including new spoilers, alloy wheels etc. Watford said Mrs G selected 
no to this question, which was wrong. She should have said yes, and there were options for 
her specific modifications listed.
Watford added theyd checked when the car was last sold and found this was in 
August 2019  and looking at a photo of the car from that time, noted none of the 
modifications were on the car when she purchased it. Because of that, they felt Mrs G knew 
her car had been modified and hadnt said this when taking out the policy. They quoted a 
number of terms, which in brief said Mrs G had to have told them about modifications  and 
said had she done so, they wouldnt have offered her the policy. 
Ive looked at the question Mrs G was asked. And I think the question she was asked 
through the price comparison site was clear. It also had the question mark icon Watford have 
mentioned, and in the list of options that come up when you select that, it does say 
Paintwork / Stickers. So, I dont think Mrs G took reasonable care when answering this 
question.
At this point, Id add that I think our Investigator has approached Mrs Gs case as though she 
added the modifications after buying the policy. But, there were only 17 days between Mrs G 
buying the policy, and the accident. Mrs G had owned the car for around two years at the 
time of taking out the policy, and when complaining has suggested the question about 
modifications wasnt clear. That means I think Mrs G had modified the car before buying the 
policy.
So, next, I need to consider whether Mrs G not taking reasonable care when answering the 
question would be classed as a qualifying misrepresentation  would it have made a 
difference to Watford if Mrs G had selected the correct option.
Watford have provided evidence of their underwriting criteria. I cant share this as its 
commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied with what it shows. It says had Mrs G declared shed 
added window tints and stickers they wouldnt have offered cover. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Watford have said Mrs Gs misrepresentation was careless because initially shed said she 
didnt know the tints were modifications.I agree that Mrs Gs misrepresentation was careless, because at the time of raising the 
claim, theres no suggestion Ive seen shes tried to deliberately mislead Watford when 
taking out the policy.
As Im satisfied Mrs Gs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Watford have taken.
Watford havent paid Mrs Gs claim, theyve kept her premiums as a result of the claim and 
recorded the cancellation of her policy on internal and external databases. 
I think this is a fair and reasonable approach for Watford to have taken. I say that because 
theyve shown they wouldnt have offered cover for Mrs G if shed properly answered the 
questions asked  and as a claim has been made, it wouldnt seem fair for her to get a 
refund of her premiums. So, in deciding that, I also think its appropriate for Watford to have 
cancelled her policy, and theyve recorded it on the databases as Id expect.
So, although I can see our Investigator recommended Watford remove Mr and Mrs Gs 
details of the cancellation from all internal and external databases and pay £150 
compensation  I dont agree with that for the reasons Ive explained above.
Responses to my provisional decision
Watford replied, and said they had nothing further to add.
Mrs G replied, and said she was confused at how two different people can come up with two 
different answers. She asked whats to say the original decision isnt right, and the second 
person just doesnt care or have any interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for replying promptly to my provisional decision.
In context, Im the second person Mrs G has referred to above  so Im sorry to hear she 
thinks I dont care or have any interest in reaching a fair outcome. Id like to assure Mrs G I 
do. My remit is to consider things on a fair and reasonable basis  but that means I have to 
think about whats fair to both parties. 
Here, as Ive set out in my provisional decision, I believe Mrs G made a misrepresentation 
when she took out the policy  because she didnt declare modifications she should have. 
Our Investigator didnt think the modifications were on the car, at the time of taking out the 
policy and were added afterwards. But, from all of the comments Ive seen, I think they were 
on the car when taking out the policy.
Mrs G hasnt provided anything in response to dispute this particular point  which I 
mentioned in my provisional decision. So, with that in mind and as Watford didnt add 
anything further  Ive seen no reason to change the decision I previously reached. I believe 
Mrs G made a careless misrepresentation when taking out the policy, and Watfords actions 
upon realising this are fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman