DRN-3035691
The complaint
Mr K is complaining that Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes) applied
unfair charges when he returned a car to them at the end of the lease agreement.
What happened
Mr K entered into a lease agreement on 12 December 2016 for a term of 24 months, so
ending in December 2018. The car was collected from Mr K on 27 February 2019. There
was an inspection of the vehicle by the collecting agent as it was collected, and then a full
inspection carried out on 4 March 2019 by BCA.
On 12 March 2019, Mr K was sent a bill for some damage charges and excess hire charges
for the period since 12 December 2018 when the lease was due to end. The total of this bill
was £2,285.74.
Mr K disputed the invoice. He felt that the car was inspected by the person who collected it
who had highlighted some damage to the alloy wheels but did not agree that there was
damage to the left headlamp which was on the invoice and did not feel the excess hire
charges were correct.
Mercedes initial response to this complaint rejected his concerns saying that the charges for
the headlamp unit and other damages were correct. They highlighted the vehicle return
standards they had provided Mr K at the beginning of his agreement. They also said that the
excess hire charges were correct. Mr K was not happy with this response, so brought his
complaint to our service.
An investigator here investigated the complaint. They felt that Mercedes had miscalculated
the excess hire charges by 4 days, and Mercedes have agreed with this and adjusted the
amount outstanding.
With regards to the damage charges, the investigator felt that the damage was all evident in
the photos from the inspection on 4 March 2019, so Mercedes were able to charge for this.
With regards to the disputed headlamp damage, Mr K felt that this wasnt present when the
car was collected and may have occurred after that point. The investigator felt that it was
most likely that it had occurred prior to this and felt that as Mercedes had adjusted the
excess hire charges by 4 days, they didnt need to do anything further.
Mr K did not agree with this view, so asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 August 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr K confirmed in his comments to our service when he requested an Ombudsman to look
at this, that his main remaining concern is the headlamp charge. The other smaller damage
charges for the alloy wheels and the bumper moulding are clearly evident in the photos and
have not been queried or disputed by Mr K in his dealing with us. And the excess hire
charges have now been agreed after the reduction by 4 days.
So, I have specifically focused on the remaining dispute, the charge for headlamp left hand
scratched which is £1240. Mercedes have confirmed this is their cost to replace the
headlamp unit, and under their vehicle return standards, this is what will be charged in these
circumstances.
Mr K has said he does not believe that scratch was on the headlamp when the car was
collected, and the collection agent did not note it down on the report at the time. It has been
highlighted on the BCA report produced 4 days later, along with photographic evidence.
There are three issues for me to consider here. Firstly, is the damage there, and does it fall
outside of the acceptable wear and tear standards. Secondly, was it present when the car
was collected. And thirdly, if the answer to the first two issues is yes, is the charge of
£1240 reasonable and fair in the circumstances.
Where theres no evidence on any point, or the evidence is unclear or disputed, Ive made
my decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is, whats more likely to have
happened considering the circumstances of this particular case.
In examining the photos provided from the inspection on the 4 March, I can see a long
scratch/scuff along the bottom of the headlamp. I have reviewed the wear and tear guidance
provided by Mercedes to the consumer, as well as the industry guidance provided in the
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guide. I am
satisfied that the damage falls well outside of acceptable wear and tear in both.
The second issue is whether the damage was present before the car was collected. Mr K
has told us that he believes he would have noticed any significant damage and would have
expected it t be picked up and noted down by the collection agent. He said that he had
inspected the car inch by inch the morning before the collection and his son also separately
did the same thing and there was nothing either had noticed. However, there is no
photographic or other evidence of this.
Alongside this, the full BCA inspection carried out was 4 days later, and the damage is clear
in the photographs. Mercedes feel the damage was present when the car was inspected and
is chargeable under their vehicle return standards. No evidence has been provided of any
circumstances by which the damage may have occurred either before or after the car was
collected.
With an issue like this, I am considering the balance of probabilities to decide what is most
likely to have happened. A scuff/scratch on the headlamp could have been missed at the
initial inspection, and potentially could have gone unnoticed by Mr K and his son. It is
probably not quite as common to have a scratch or scuff on a headlamp as on the bodywork
of a car, and it also stands out less/is less obvious on the clear headlamp unit.
The car is noted on the collection report as being dirty, and this seems evident from several
of the photos at the full inspection. Its possible that some dirt may have obscured the
damage, but again, there is no evidence of this.
In deciding what is most likely here, I am persuaded by the timeframe involved. Mr K had the
car for around 27 months and had driven around 15,000 miles in that time. The rest of the
vehicle shows signs of some wear and tear and it was not clean when collected. The full
inspection was then carried out 4 days later. On balance, it is more likely that the damage
had occurred while the car was in the possession of Mr K, and had gone un-noticed.
So, at this stage, my view is that it is most likely that the headlamp damage occurred before
the car was collected at the end of the lease agreement. The damage is outside of
acceptable wear and tear guidelines, and this means that Mr K would be liable for chargesfor this damage.
The third issue to then consider is whether the £1240 damage charge is fair and reasonable.
Mercedes have said that this is the cost of a replacement headlamp unit. But when I asked
them to confirm they had replaced the unit, or what price they had sold the car for at auction,
they said they were unable to provide any information about the vehicle after it had been
returned.
They also said that regardless of whether the vehicle had a replacement headlamp or
whether it was sold at auction for a lesser cost due to this, as per the terms and conditions of
Mr Ks agreement we are to be compensated accordingly.
I agree that Mercedes are entitled to charge for the damage, but I dont agree that £1240,
the cost of a replacement headlamp unit, is a fair charge. It seems evident from the
photographs that the headlamp would still be functional and there has been no evidence
presented that it needed replacing for any safety reason, such as the headlights not
functioning adequately or safely.
The damage is cosmetic. And whilst this potentially reduces the re-sale value of the car,
Mercedes have been unable to provide any evidence that the headlamp was replaced, or
repaired, or how much the sale value of the car would have been impacted.
On this basis, I have considered the balance of probabilities, to decide what would be a fair
charge for the damage. On a used car which has done 15,000 miles, it is unlikely that the
entire headlamp unit would be replaced because of a cosmetic scratch on the bottom of the
glass/plastic cover. It is most likely that the car was sold at auction with the headlamp
scratch still present.
As such, it is reasonable to believe that the price the car achieved would be a little lower due
to the cosmetic damage to the headlamp. But it is often possible to repair headlamp
scratches, depending on the exact nature of the damage. No evidence is available to
determine if this would have been possible or not, but on balance, it is most likely that the
damage could have been repaired.
Without further evidence as to the exact nature of the damage, and considering the balance
of probabilities, I feel it would have reduced the value of the vehicle at re-sale by £250. I
appreciate that the exact re-sale price of a used car at auction can be dependent on a
number of factors, so it is not possible to know what the impact was here. I have decided
that on balance, £250 is a fair amount. This considers the inherent lower value if the car was
sold with the scratch, or covers a reasonable cost of repair if it was repaired before it was
sold. Therefore, I am satisfied that a fair charge for the damage would be £250, rather than
£1240.
In summary, having considered the BVRLA guidelines, the inspection report and the
evidence provided by both parties, I think Mr K should be responsible for the following
damage charges:
Bumper front chrome moulding broken: £95.00
Wheel left hand front polished alloy damage: £115.00
Wheel right hand rear polished alloy damage: £82.00
Headlamp left scratched: £250.
The total damage charge would therefore be £542, payable along with the now agreed
excess hire charges.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions received by the due date, my provisional decision is that I
will be partially upholding the complaint. Mercedes would need to reduce the damage chargeon their final invoice for the headlamp damage to £250, meaning the total damage charges
would be £542.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr K has accepted my provisional decision. Mercedes didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. They have said that they actually paid out £1625.67 for repair work on the car, 
more than they have recharged the customer, so feel that my calculations dont reflect the 
true amount they have actually paid out. 
They have sent an invoice line to show they have spent £1625.67 with BCA for work done 
on the car, along with re-sending details of what the cost of a replacement headlamp unit 
would have been. 
I have considered this new evidence, even though I had asked for it originally and was told it 
couldnt be provided.  However, this evidence doesnt change my view about what charges 
are fair in these circumstances. 
Its not clear what work has or hasnt been done on the car after Mr K has returned it; 
Mercedes have said they paid for more work than they have recharged, but there is no 
breakdown of this work.  However, I dont think this is relevant to this specific complaint. 
As I discussed in my provisional decision, replacing a headlamp unit at a cost of £1240 is not 
a fair charge in these circumstances. The lamp was scratched, but the damage appears 
cosmetic; there is no evidence that the lamp didnt work or was damaged in any way other 
than the scuff. 
In my provisional decision, I said it was most likely that Mercedes had sold the car on without 
replacing the headlamp unit and that I felt this would reduce the value of the vehicle by £250. 
However, I also said that a damage charge of £250 would also cover a reasonable cost of 
repair if it was repaired before it was sold. 
If Mercedes did choose to replace the headlamp unit at a cost of £1240, it doesnt persuade 
me that this is a fair charge to Mr K. It is most likely that the glass could have been repaired 
at a much lower cost, and as such, it isnt fair to charge Mr K for a new replacement 
headlamp unit.    
Putting things right
Having considered the BVRLA guidelines, the inspection report and the
evidence provided by both parties, Mr K should be responsible for the following
damage charges:
Bumper front chrome moulding broken: £95.00
Wheel left hand front polished alloy damage: £115.00
Wheel right hand rear polished alloy damage: £82.00
Headlamp left scratched: £250.
The total damage charge would therefore be £542, payable along with the now agreed
excess hire charges.
 My final decision
I am upholding this complaint in part. I instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited to reduce the damage charge for the scuffed/scratched headlamp to £250 rather 
than £1240. This means reducing the total damage charges payable by Mr K to £542 as 
detailed above (as well as the now agreed excess hire charges).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman