DRN-3197498
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about the handling of a claim they made on their home insurance 
policy provided by The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU 
Mutual).
Mrs T and Mr T hold the policy jointly. The majority of the contact with NFU Mutual and our 
service has been with by Mr T. For the most part, Ill refer only to Mr T but it should be 
assumed that any mention of him also includes Mrs T.  
Similarly, NFU Mutual has appointed contractors and agents to act on its behalf. Where I 
refer in this decision to NFU Mutual, this includes these appointed representatives.
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T insure a property with NFU Mutual. When the property was damaged by 
subsidence they made a claim with NFU Mutual. Its accepted that the claim is covered on 
the policy. 
Mr T referred a complaint to our service about a number of issues which had occurred during 
the claim. At the time of issuing this final decision the outstanding, unresolved matters are:
- The removal of a datum pole and monitoring pins at the property.
- Repairs and replacement of cladding on the exterior of the property.
- Re-decoration of the interior of the property.
- Compensation payable to Mrs T and Mr T for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by NFU Mutuals errors and omissions during the claim.
It was our investigators opinion that the datum pole and monitoring pins should be removed 
and that costs incurred by Mr T for repairing and replacing the cladding damaged by the 
pins, and redecoration of the areas damaged internally by the pins should be covered by 
NFU Mutual. He also thought that NFU Mutual should pay an additional £500 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, on top of £500 NFU Mutual has already paid, 
making £1000.
NFU Mutual has agreed with the increase in compensation and that the pole and pins should 
be removed. Its offered either a £350 payment to Mr T for this or for its contractors to attend 
the property and remove them. 
NFU Mutual hasnt accepted that it should pay the full costs Mr T has provided us for the 
cladding and decoration works. Its said it would be prepared to cover 50% of these 
amounts. As no agreement could be reached, the case has come to me to make a final 
decision.
Mr T has proposed that NFU Mutual pay him the mean of two new estimates, including any 
costs he incurred in obtaining such estimates, and the removal of any further conditions. My 
concern is that this will only delay things further and may lead to disputes about the 
estimates. I think both parties would benefit from having certainty about what our service 
requires of NFU Mutual to resolve the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address the various outstanding points separately, even though some of these do 
overlap.
The removal of the datum pole and monitoring pins
Two important points arent in dispute here. The pole and pins were installed by NFU Mutual 
as part of its investigations into the claim and the cause of the subsidence. Its also accepted 
that due to the circumstances of the claim, these were unnecessary. 
Its been agreed that the pole and pins should be removed. NFU Mutual has offered either to 
pay Mrs T and Mr T £350 in total to cover these costs or it will arrange for a contractor to 
attend the property to remove them. I think this is a fair outcome and no further direction is 
required.
Repairs and replacement to external cladding
The monitoring pins have been placed in the walls of the property, and doing so has resulted 
in holes being made in the cladding. Following their removal, its reasonable to say that 
these holes should be repaired. NFU Mutual agrees that it has a responsibility to do so but 
originally said it was only prepared to cover for the holes to be filled in.
Mr T refers to correspondence from NFU Mutuals solicitors during the course of the claim in 
which they said that following the conclusion of the claim the property would be returned to 
its pre-loss condition. He says that filling the holes doesnt do this. I agree with him here. 
Filling in the holes will mean that the cladding is no longer complete, as it was before the 
claim. To return the property to its pre-loss condition, then the cladding which was damaged 
to place the pins should be replaced. 
Mr T previously indicated that he thought the whole property should be re-clad, which our 
investigator didnt think was reasonable. He accepts now that only the areas in which the 
pins were placed should be re-clad. I think this is an acceptable solution here. I also think 
that NFU Mutuals recent offer to cover 50% of the costs put forward by Mr T suggests that it 
is aware that its liable for these repairs. I conclude that NFU Mutual should cover the 
reasonable costs of the partial replacement of cladding at the property.
Having accepted that the partial recladding of the property should be covered by NFU 
Mutual, the question I next need to address is how much it should pay for this. Mr T has 
provided us with an estimate for the works totalling £3117.60. As Ive said previously, NFU 
Mutual has offered to pay 50% of this. It hasnt explained its reasoning for why it considers 
50% of the offer to be reasonable, or suggested that the quotation provided by Mr T is 
excessive. Mr T has suggested that the actual costs of the works may be higher once theyre 
carried out and the time that has elapsed since he obtained the quotation. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that the estimate received and provided to us by Mr T is 
excessive. The estimate outlines the work that will be carried out and the prices for this work. 
Mr T says that the availability of contractors to carry out the work is limited so obtaining further estimates will be difficult. I appreciate that with the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions that 
this may be the case. Both Mr T and NFU Mutual appear to accept that a resolution is 
needed here. It doesnt benefit anyone to have the matter continue. So I think its fair to ask 
NFU Mutual to pay Mrs T and Mr T £3117.60 for the cladding, in line with the estimate we 
have been provided. 
If Mr T incurs additional costs for this work beyond this amount, then hed be welcome to 
submit these to NFU Mutual for its consideration. NFU Mutual would be entitled to require 
evidence of the costs incurred by Mr T if such a claim is made, and assess whether they 
consider the amounts claimed to be reasonable.
Internal decoration
As with the external cladding, Mr T has said that an internal wall has been damaged by the 
monitoring pins and so the room will need to be redecorated when the pins are removed. 
Weve been provided with photos showing marks on a wall. And I dont think its unusual to 
say that the pins could have caused damage to the wall.
Again I think that the indication from NFU Mutuals solicitors that the property would be 
returned to its pre-loss condition is relevant here. There was no damage to the interior wall 
and so its reasonable to say that redecoration should be covered by NFU Mutual once the 
pins are removed. 
Mr T provided an estimate for this work of £1260, although similarly to the cladding works 
hes said the actual cost may be higher as additional work may be required. NFU Mutual has 
offered to pay 50% of this, but hasnt explained the reasons for this offer. It hasnt 
suggested, and I havent seen evidence, that the estimate obtained by Mr T is excessive for 
the decoration being proposed. It also hasnt made any offer for one of its own contractors to 
carry this out. 
I accept that NFU Mutual should cover the decoration. And in the absence of anything to 
suggest that the estimate obtained by Mr T is disproportionate or excessive, Im persuaded 
that NFU Mutual should pay him the £1260 estimated, in an attempt to move the claim 
forward and provide a resolution for all parties. As I said with the cladding, if Mr T incurs 
additional costs for this work beyond the £1260, he should be allowed to present these to 
NFU Mutual for its consideration and assessment. I cant say whether NFU Mutual should 
pay additional costs as Mr T incurring these is essentially hypothetical so I cant say whether 
its reasonable for NFU Mutual to pay them.
Compensation
Our investigator considered that NFU Mutual should pay £500 compensation in addition to 
the £500 it had already paid, making £1000 in total. 
While the nature of a subsidence claim means that they will often take a significant period of 
time to resolve, including establishing the cause of the subsidence, monitoring and repairs, 
its accepted that there have been avoidable delays during this claim, including the 
unnecessary installation of the pins and pole which Ive addressed within this decision. 
There were also issues with the way information was communicated to Mr T, and that he 
wasnt being updated as he should have been. This meant he had to spend extra time 
corresponding with NFU Mutual which he wouldnt have needed to if NFU Mutual had done 
what it should have. I do agree that these avoidable delays and communication issues have 
caused a significant impact on Mrs T and Mr T given the length of time this has been 
ongoing for and the amount of communication theyve had to engage in with NFU Mutual to try and resolve matters.
Mr T detailed the amount of time hed spent trying to put things right with NFU Mutual. And in 
submitting evidence to our service. Our approach to awarding compensation is generally to 
look at the matter holistically, rather than assigning a monetary value to the amount of time 
spent putting things right, or the length of delays. I agree with our investigator that a more 
reasonable figure would be £1000 in total. NFU Mutual should pay an additional £500 
compensation to Mrs T and Mr T.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, The National 
Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must:
Cover for the removal of the datum pole and monitoring pins, either by way of a 
payment of £350 to Mrs T and Mr T, or by appointing their contractors to remove 
them.
Pay £3117.60 for the replacement of cladding. If Mrs T and Mr T incur additional 
costs for these works, these should be submitted for consideration.
Pay £1200 for the interior decorating works. If Mrs T and Mr T incur additional costs 
for these works, these should be submitted for consideration.
Pay an additional £500 compensation to Mrs T and Mr T, making £1000 in total.
NFU Mutual must pay these amounts within 28 days of us informing it that Mrs T and Mr T 
accept our decision. If it does not, it must pay simple interest on these amounts at a rate of 
8% from that date to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman