DRN-3330497
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc when he was the victim of a scam 
in which he sent money to one of their customers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In March 2019 Mr M was unfortunately the victim of 
an email invoice interception scam. An invoice received by email had been intercepted and 
amended meaning when Mr M sent a payment, it went to a scammers account rather than 
the intended beneficiary. 
Mr M sent around £65,000 to the scammers account on 18 March 2019. The account was 
held with HSBC. Mr M believes that HSBC failed to investigate what he says would have 
been an unusual transaction on that account and that this caused his loss. 
Ultimately HSBC declined to reimburse the loss and a complaint was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld, and that HSBC 
should refund around £55,000 plus interest along with a £250 award for distress and 
inconvenience. Mr M accepted this as resolution to the complaint, but HSBC disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
In January 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My considerations here amount to whether HSBC could and should have done more to 
prevent or respond to the alleged authorised push payment (APP) fraud that Mr M fell victim 
to. Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining what aspects of Mr Ms complaint I 
have the power to consider. And Ive gone on to consider those below. 
Ive looked at the activity on the HSBC account prior to Mr Ms funds arriving. I dont think 
there was anything so unusual or out of character where I think HSBC ought to have 
intervened. But Ive gone on to look at the activity on the account following the arrival of 
Mr Ms funds.
Once the money arrived, some of it was promptly transferred from the account. The first 
payment that left the account was for over £9,000. It was followed by another request to 
transfer a similar amount. I dont think HSBC reasonably ought to have intervened in the first 
outgoing payment. But by the time the second payment was instructed it represented nearly 
£20,000 being transferred in a relatively short period of time. I think this was unusual activity 
in relation to that account and I think HSBC ought to have intervened. Had they done so, 
they then wouldve seen that this money was being paid away soon after receipt of a large 
incoming payment. They also would have discovered that this type of account activity didnt 
match what they knew about their customer (based on the information gathered as part of 
their customer due diligence checks at account opening). 
I think it is reasonable to have expected HSBC to have had some concerns at that point with 
the information they had to hand. And based on this, I think they should have spoken to their 
customer, prior to allowing further funds to leave the account. In these circumstances, HSBC 
ought to have satisfied themselves both that these were genuine instructions from their 
customer, and that their customer wasnt in the process of being scammed. 
Had HSBC done so, Im persuaded that the majority of Mr Ms funds would have remained 
available for recovery. I say this because when HSBC later spoke to their customer, they 
claimed that they had no knowledge of any of the activity on their account. I think its most 
likely that HSBC would have received a similar response if theyd contacted the customer at 
the relevant time. 
I appreciate by the time HSBC spoke to their customer, all the funds had been withdrawn. 
So Ive thought about whether this means a conversation would have gone differently if there 
were still significant funds remaining in the account and whether the accountholder would 
have tried to explain their entitlement to them. Such considerations can only be made on the 
balance of probability and I acknowledge we cant know for sure. But I think its most likely 
that even if the accountholder was directly involved in the scam, they would similarly have 
tried to distance themselves from it upon contact from HSBC. The most persuasive evidence 
for what would have happened had there been a conversation with HSBC, is what actually 
did happen when a similar conversation took place. 
In response to our investigators view, HSBC have made much of the fact that Mr M hasnt 
complained to his own bank, from where he sent the funds. They believe that his own bank 
has a duty of care to him as a customer (which they dont) and that in considering what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances, this should be taken into account. 
Our service has followed the FCA guidance from their handbook at DISP 3.5.2 in informing 
Mr M that it might be appropriate to complain to another respondent. But Mr M has explained 
that he doesnt think his own bank are at fault. Hes even gone as far as sharing his 
statements with HSBC to evidence that the relevant payment wasnt unusual for his account. 
I can only comment on a complaint that has been brought to our service, as such I make no 
finding in relation to whether there is a case to answer between Mr M and his own bank. But 
as Ill come to below, Ill make provision for this in my intended directions. 
Finally, as Im intending to uphold this complaint, Ive considered whether Mr M himself 
ought to bear some responsibility for his loss due to contributory negligence. Ive seen a 
copy of the amended invoice and I dont think it is obviously altered or easily identifiable as 
not being genuine. So, I dont think Mr M was in anyway negligent or that it would be fair in 
the circumstances here to hold him liable for part of the loss.
I also agree with our investigator that the primary cause of the distress and inconvenience  
was the criminal acts of the scammer. But ultimately HSBC could have significantly reduced 
this. And I think £250 is a fair amount to reflect the impact their actions had on Mr M. 
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Now the deadline for further 
submissions has passed, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Refund Mr M £65,038.14 less the first payment from their customers account
(£9,400) which I dont reasonably think could have been prevented.
HSBC may also reduce this by any further amount (if any) that has already 
been recovered and returned to Mr M.
HSBC should add 8% simple interest (less any tax lawfully deductible) to this 
amount from the date of loss to the date of refund.
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I also think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr M to assign his right to complain to his own 
bank (and the right to any resultant redress) to HSBC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman