DRN-2956617
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he financed through an agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was about 
ten years old and had completed at least 87,000 miles. I think a reasonable person would 
expect a car of that age and mileage to be experiencing notable wear and tear and wouldnt 
expect it to be trouble free.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Santander were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Santander have commissioned an independent inspector to consider all the faults Mr A has 
reported on the car. The inspector noted many of the issues Mr A complained and I think his 
comments were comprehensive. The inspector is an expert in these matters, and he did not 
consider the issues he identified would have been present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr A. So, I think Santander have therefore been able to demonstrate the 
problems with the car were not present or developing when it was supplied.
Mr A says the carbonisation the inspector identified around the exhaust was present when 
he took receipt of the car. I cant see reference to carbonisation in the inspectors reports 
and to my untrained eye the exhaust in the photograph, Mr A has supplied of the car when 
purchased, doesnt look unusual. But even if Im wrong about that I dont think Id have 
enough evidence to suggest the car was faulty when supplied. Mr A was able to complete at 
least 10,000 miles in the car before it was inspected and that seems unlikely if it had been 
developing those issues from the beginning. 
Mr A says the inspectors report doesnt establish beyond reasonable doubt that the faults 
werent developing when the car was supplied to him. That is a very high standard of proof. 
But this service only needs to consider whether on the balance of probabilities the faults 
were developing at the point of supply and on that test I am persuaded they probably 
werent.
Im not therefore asking Santander to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman