DRN-4389203
The complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix), his personal pension provider, caused 
delays to the payment of his pension funds. 
What happened
Mr R first contacted Phoenix on 20 February 2023 to claim the benefits from two small 
pension policies held with it. At this point, a change of address also needed to be processed 
for Mr R.
Phoenix said it updated its records. And sent a retirement illustration pack for the combined 
policies to Mr Rs correct new address on 21 February 2023. 
Mr R called Phoenix again on 27 February 2023 to complete the second stage of the 
retirement process. He wanted to fully encash both of his policies. Phoenix unsuccessfully 
attempted to transfer Mr R to its customer care team to go through the retirement process. 
But told him he would get a call back within 48 hours. Mr R didnt want to wait this long so 
Phoenix gave him the phone number so he could contact the appropriate team directly. 
Mr R completed the application forms on 28 February 2023. The forms included his correct 
address. Phoenix said it received the completed application to cash in both policies on 2 
March 2023. But that as the values of the policies had fallen by more than 5%, Phoenix 
called Mr R on 6 March 2023 to see if he still wanted to go ahead with the encashment. Mr R 
said he still wanted to proceed. Phoenix said his claim was settled on 9 March 2023.
Phoenix sent Mr R two cheques in respect of the encashments on 9 March 2023. But the 
cheques were sent to an incomplete and incorrect address.
As Mr R didnt receive the incorrectly addressed cheques, he called Phoenix on 22 March 
2023 to chase his payment. He asked for payment to be made by bank transfer instead. 
Phoenix said it set up the work so that it could re-issue the payment. But said that no action 
was taken because it had appeared to the team working on the claim that it had been paid 
on 9 March 2023, as there was no note on file that the cheques hadnt been received.
Mr R contacted Phoenix again on 27 March 2023 because he still hadnt received payment. 
The call handler confirmed itd used an incorrect, slightly different address. And this was why 
the cheques hadnt reached Mr R. They apologised to Mr R and corrected the address held 
for him. 
Phoenix also told Mr R that it would have to cancel the cheques itd issued to the wrong 
address before it could re-issue the payments. And that this should be done within ten 
working days. 
Mr R was unhappy with the poor service hed received. The call handler offered him £100 
compensation to resolve his concerns. Phoenixs phone notes recorded that Mr R had 
accepted that this resolved his complaint. Phoenix said that it didnt log a formal complaint 
because of this. But it sent Mr R a final response letter on 28 March 2023, confirming the 
proposed resolution of the complaint. And had paid Mr R £100 on 30 March 2023.
Mr R was unhappy with the service hed received. So on 27 April 2023, he brought his 
complaint to this service.
I understand Phoenix sent Mr R the two outstanding cheques for the encashment of both of 
his policies on 2 May 2023.  
Our investigator didnt think Phoenix should be asked to take any further steps to resolve Mr 
Rs complaint. He acknowledged that itd delayed the encashment of Mr Rs pensions when 
itd sent the 9 March 2023 letters to the incorrect address. And that itd failed to action Mr Rs 
request for the encashment payment to be made by bank transfer, causing further delay. He 
felt this had caused three weeks delay. And said that as the delay hadnt caused Mr R any 
financial loss, he felt that the £100 compensation Phoenix had paid him was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that Phoenix had been incompetent in its 
handling of his payment at all stages. And that the £100 compensation wasnt sufficient for 
the stress itd caused him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to be for review. 
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 25 September 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the delays Phoenix 
caused didnt change the amount of Mr Rs claim, so hes made no financial loss. But in my 
view, Phoenix caused a delay of almost eight weeks to the payment of Mr Rs claim, not 
three weeks  it shouldve been sent to his correct address on 9 March 2023, but it wasnt 
sent to that address until 2 May 2023. 
I also consider that it took Mr R a reasonable amount of effort over several weeks to actually 
obtain payment. Therefore I consider that Phoenix should increase its offer of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused by £100. I also consider that it should pay 
Mr R interest for the loss of use of his money over the period of the delay it caused. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
How long was the delay caused by Phoenix?
Ive not seen any evidence that Phoenix caused any delays before it sent the first two 
cheques to the incorrect address on 9 March 2023. 
From what Ive seen, Phoenix then failed to action Mr Rs request for the payment to be 
made by bank transfer. So replacement cheques were only sent to Mr R on 2 May 2023. 
There are almost eight weeks between 9 March 2023 and 2 May 2023. So I consider that 
this is the length of the delay that Phoenix caused. I say this because its clear that if it had 
correctly recorded Mr Rs address change, the 9 March 2023 letter wouldve reached Mr R. 
I next considered if the delays caused Mr R a financial loss.
Did the delays cause Mr R a financial loss?Mr R received the same payment in the 2 May 2023 letter as he wouldve received if the 9 
March 2023 letter had reached him. So I agree with our investigator that the delay didnt 
cause him any financial loss. 
However, Mr R was deprived of the use of his money over the period of the delay. Therefore 
I consider that Phoenix should pay Mr R interest to compensate him for the loss of use of his 
full encashment for a period of almost eight weeks. 
I next considered the distress and inconvenience the delay has caused Mr R. 
Distress and inconvenience
Mr R has also clearly had to make some effort over several weeks in order to receive his 
cash. From what hes told this service, this has caused him stress. 
On 27 March 2023, Phoenix offered Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the delay had caused him. But from what Ive seen, it didnt then pay him his 
money until 2 May 2023. So I consider that additional compensation is warranted here. 
I intend to require Phoenix to take the following steps to put things right: 
Pay Mr R an additional £100 compensation for the stress and inconvenience the 
further delays, after 27 March 2023, to the payment of his cash caused him. 
Calculate 8% annual simple interest on the cash payment from 9 March 2023 to 2 
May 2023. And pay Mr R the amount of interest so calculated.  
Response to my provisional decision
Phoenix accepted my decision. 
Mr R didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
I require Phoenix Life Limited to take the following steps to put things right:
Pay Mr R an additional £100 compensation for the stress and inconvenience the 
further delays, after 27 March 2023, to the payment of his cash caused him. 
Calculate 8% annual simple interest on the cash payment from 9 March 2023 to 2 
May 2023. And pay Mr R the amount of interest so calculated.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Phoenix deducts income tax from any 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Phoenix should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. Phoenix Life Limited must take the 
actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman