DRN-3794771
The complaint
Mrs M complained that there were unnecessary delays with her claim and that Ageas 
Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined her storm claim under her home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs M made a claim advising Ageas that she had suffered significant damage to her 
property because of a storm. She said rain was pouring into her kitchen and garage 
perimeter.
Mrs M said that she was told by Ageas that due to the age of the roof the claim wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. Ageas said the damage was described in such a way which would 
suggest that the damage was primarily caused by natural aging rather than a one-off 
incident. Ageas continued to consider the internal damage to the property and asked Mrs M 
to provide photos and invoices to allow it to settle the claim. After some delays Ageas 
offered a settlement for the internal damage of around £580 after the excess was deducted.
Ageas said Mrs M explained that the roof was old, and it couldve been repaired, but had 
decided to commission her own roofer to replace the whole roof (to the garage and 
kitchen/hall extension). Mrs M said the roofer found the gable end eaves were damaged. So, 
Mrs M asked for Ageas to cover the damage to the gable end. Ageas re-considered the 
claim for the roof and gable end, but still decided to decline the claim.
Mrs M remains unhappy her roof hasnt been covered and she feels the claim couldve been 
dealt with quicker. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Ageas had shown it was 
reasonably likely wear and tear was the main cause of the damage, so thought it had been 
fair to decline the claim for the external damage as this was excluded in the cover under the 
policy. Mrs M disagreed with our investigator, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by considering whether I think Ageas were reasonable in declining the claim. 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Ageas hasnt denied storms occurred around the time of the reported incident. As it has 
considered the claim, I think it has accepted there were storm conditions. However, it later 
went on to decline the claim for different reasons. So, Ill consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Its important to understand whose responsibility its to prove damage has occurred or to 
prove that an exclusion in the policy applies to a claim. In this claim, it would be Mrs Ms 
responsibility to prove the damage has occurred because of the storm. However, it would be 
Ageas responsibility to prove wear and tear as it has relied on this to decline the claim.
When Mrs M made the claim for her roof  she explained that her roof was old, and Ageas 
told her it wouldnt be covered based upon what she had said. She then proceeded to her 
have the whole roof replaced at her own cost, which I think confirms the roof was likely at the 
end of its useful life.
Therefore, in respect to the roof Mrs M had replaced above her garage and hall / extension, I 
dont think Mrs M did prove there was any damage caused because of the storm. I think if 
there was obvious damage e.g. felt blown off the roof, tiles dislodged, Mrs M wouldve told 
Ageas about this when making her claim or when she was told the claim wouldnt be 
covered. I think based upon what Mrs M had told Ageas, it was reasonable to conclude the 
likely cause of damage was wear and tear, which was excluded from the policy. So, I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
However, Mrs M also claimed for the damage to her gable end  where some of the fascia 
was damaged. Its possible this damage couldve been caused by a storm, so Ive 
considered this part of the claim in the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ageas couldnt inspect the damage themselves to validate the claim as Mrs M had repairs 
carried out to her home before this could take place. However, it was willing to consider 
photographs that Mrs M provided of the damage to the gable end.
Ageas said in an email you sent us you included a picture of wood which, presumably, was 
beneath the roof and is rotten and discoloured. This was provided among similar pictures of 
the gable end which had been removed, leading us to believe that this wood was placed 
near the gable end for which you wished to claim, however its condition indicates that the 
cause of damage to it and the gable is likely a long-term cause of damage and not 
consistent with an event for which you are insured.
I have viewed the photographs that Ageas used to make this assessment. Based upon the 
evidence provided, I think it has made a reasonable conclusion based on the information 
available. I have checked the terms and conditions and I can see they state, what is not 
covered  loss or damage - caused by any gradually operating cause or wear and tear. 
Therefore, as Ageas has declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions, I think it 
has been fair in these circumstances, so I dont uphold this complaint. I think its more likely 
the pre-existing condition of the roof and gable end was the main cause of the damage and 
the storm merely highlighted this weakness that existed.Im pleased Ageas has settled the claim for the internal damage. Insurers often do this under 
the accidental damage section of the policy. Our service views this as good practice, when 
the external damage of a storm claim has not been met.
I can also see the claim has been ongoing for 15 months, which is longer than I would 
expect. I think Ageas were clear from the start the claim was declined, so I cant see a delay 
here. Unfortunately, I can see that Ageas didnt receive some of the information Mrs M said 
she sent. There isnt evidence to show why this was, so its not possible for me to consider 
this point without clear evidence of what was the cause of the delay. 
I can also see Ageas overpaid on the settlement of the internal work  for painting of 
external brickwork that wasnt covered by the policy. Therefore, without clear evidence of 
Ageas causing delays and knowing it has over settled part of the claim, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Ageas to pay any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman