DRN-2942773
The complaint
Mrs B complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out in some 
detail by our investigator in his view letter, so I wont repeat them again here. The facts are 
not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was some five years old and had covered 33,583 miles when it was acquired by Mrs 
B on 31 January 2020. Some wear and tear is to be expected, but the issue I have to 
address is whether the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale.  
This case is unusual in that we have three separate independent reports conducted in a 
four-week period beginning on 24 September 2020. The first two suggest the faults were 
present or developing at the point of the sale. The third takes a different stance. I can see 
why Mrs B thinks the business kept seeking reports until it got one which suited. That said, I 
cannot say that this was the case.
I think it clear there was an issue in the first 30 days. The dealer says the alternator was 
replaced, but I note the invoice it has supplied is dated the day of the sale. Like our 
investigator I have presumed this was an error. However, the independent engineers all 
consider the alternator they inspected not to have been new. It seems odd that the dealer 
would claim to have replaced a part when it seems this didnt happen. It does undermine the 
dealers credibility somewhat. I gather the MOT before the sale was also carried out by the 
dealer.
The faults were electrical and I appreciate such matter can happen suddenly, but this service 
regards a car a single entity and the dealer has one attempt at a repair. I believe the car 
required further repairs shortly initial repair was carried out.
Mrs B could have rejected it within 30 days, but didnt do so, though I am not clear if this was 
offered to her. However, as the dealer didnt effect a full repair it remains open to Mrs B to 
reject the car. I must admit that given two reports showed rejection was a fair response it 
isnt clear why a third one was needed. 
I have taken account of the fact that Mrs B did manage to make use of the car and covered 
some 9,000 miles. For that I think it only right that she pay the appropriate monthly 
instalments. However, I believe the car has been taken off the road for some time and has 
not been used.
Putting things right
 Mrs B should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mrs B
refund all monthly payments received from 21 September 2020 and pay 8% simple 
annual interest from the date of each payment until the date of settlement
refund the deposit paid pay 8% simple interest from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement
pay a further amount of £150 for the distress and inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods
remove any adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman