DRN-1964881
The complaint
Mr R complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly recorded a claim on his motor insurance 
policy as a fault.
What happened
In 2017 Mr Rs car was hit and damaged by a bottle. It wasnt clear how this happened.  He 
claimed for the repair on his Aviva motor insurance policy. In 2019 he took out cover with a 
different insurer. That insurer told him the claim had caused an increase in the cost of his 
cover. 
Mr Rs unhappy as he says Aviva told him he could make the claim without it affecting his no 
claims discount (NCD) or the cost of his cover. He feels the increase means the NCD 
protection he paid extra for wasnt applied correctly. He wants Aviva to cover the increase in 
his premium and refund what he paid for NCD protection. 
In response Aviva said it accepted Mr R wasnt responsible for the incident. But it hadnt 
identified a responsible party to recover the claim costs from. So the claim had to be 
recorded as a fault. It said his no claims discount was protected so hadnt been reduced. It 
explained a fault claim can result in a premium increase even if the NCD isnt affected. 
Our Investigator said Aviva had recorded the claim fairly. He didnt feel it had done anything 
that had unfairly caused an increase in the cost of cover for Mr R. He didnt ask Aviva to do 
anything differently. Mr R didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
Mr Rs also complained about the sale of the NCD protection. But that isnt considered here. 
He will need to make a new complaint if he would like that looked at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not making Aviva pay Mr R any compensation or do anything differently.  
Aviva didnt recover the costs of the 2017 claim. So its fair that the claim was recorded as a 
fault.
Mr R feels his NCD wasn't applied in the right way. It says that must be the case as there 
was an increase in the cost of his insurance following the claim. Hes pointed to Aviva 
charging him more in 2018, after the claim, than it did in 2017. 
Ive looked at the information provided by Aviva. The NCD wasnt reduced. Mr R had seven 
years NCD in 2017 before the claim. In 2018 Aviva again applied seven years.  The NCD 
didnt go up to eight years in 2018  because of the claim in 2017. An additional year isnt 
awarded when theres been a claim. So I'm satisfied the NCD wasn't reduced or applied 
unfairly.
Mr Rs questioned why Aviva charged him more in 2018 if the NCD hadnt been reduced. It 
provided its calculations for 2017 and 2018. There seems to be two key reasons for the 
increase. The claim was one. 
Avivas previously explained to Mr R how it applies NCD. It calculates an initial base 
premium based on a range of factors, including incidents like claims and vehicle model. 
Then it applies a discount based on the number of years NCD held. In my experience thats 
a common approach by insurers. NCD protection protects the level of discount given. It 
doesn't mean claims or losses wont be considered by an insurer when calculating a base 
premium. 
The second reason for the increase, according to Aviva, was a change to Mr Rs credit 
rating. Based on this I cant say Aviva unfairly increased the cost of Mr Rs cover. 
Mr R feels Aviva should have told him, when he made the claim, that it would be considered 
a fault  and that it might increase the cost of future cover. 
Aviva acknowledged Mr Rs claim by email in 2017. That explained the next steps for the 
claim. It didnt use the word fault. But it did say it will be recorded as a claim against your 
policy. I think thats enough to explain it would be recorded against Mr R. 
Mr R says that email didnt explain his protected NCD would be detrimentally affected by the 
claim. But as Ive said his NCD wasnt reduced, it was protected. Instead the claim record 
itself had an impact on the premium. 
So having considered the matter I cant see that Avivas done anything wrong to cause Mr R 
to unfairly pay extra for his motor insurance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman