DRN-1419817
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly applied a default on her credit file and 
also provided her with poor service.
What happened 
Miss C held a bank account with Lloyds and applied for a loan in August 2011, but says that 
she was offered a £12,000 overdraft instead. After several repayments were missed, Lloyds 
passed the account to a debt collection agency and say that they sent a notice of default and 
account closure in March 2016. But Miss C says she did not receive this letter, and says she 
was not made aware of the negative impact this would have on her credit file. 
Miss C called Lloyds to discuss her concerns, and says that the agent she spoke to was 
rude and insinuated that she wasnt telling the truth. 
Our investigator considered that we could not look into the mater regarding why Miss C was 
offered an overdraft instead of a loan, as this had been referred to us outside the time limits 
that apply. And in terms of the default, she thought that Lloyds had applied this correctly. 
However, the investigator did agree that the service Miss C received fell below an 
acceptable standard, so she recommended that Lloyds pay £50 compensation to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Lloyds disagreed, as they did not consider there was anything wrong with what was said to 
Miss C, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided to uphold it.
The overdraft
First, I agree with the investigator that we cannot consider Miss Cs complaint about why she 
was offered an overdraft instead of a loan in August 2011. This is because the complaint 
was made more than six years after the event complained of, and because I think Miss C 
ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint more than three years prior to 
the point she referred it. I say this because she would have known of cause for complaint at 
the point she was offered an overdraft instead of the loan she applied for.  As a result, we 
cannot look into this element of her complaint as it has been made outside the time limits 
that apply.
The default
I also agree that Lloyds have applied the default fairly. I can see that Miss C began to miss 
her repayments from February 2016, and that Lloyds made several attempts to contact her 
between 1 April 2016 and 27 May 2016. And I can see that they also sent her a default notice in March 2016, with a final demand for payment set on 30 March 2016, which was not 
met. I appreciate that Miss C says she did not receive this, but I can see that it was correctly 
addressed. And I have to take into account that the vast majority of correspondence that is 
correctly addressed is safely received. So I think its more likely than not that the letter was 
sent, and that the default was therefore applied correctly. 
The service
Miss C complains that the agent she spoke to at Lloyds was rude to her and insinuated that 
she was lying, as a result of a comment that was made about her receiving the default 
notice. Ive listened to the call, and can see that when Miss C explained that she hadnt 
received the default notice, the agent said:
Agent: Yeh I didnt expect you to say you had received it.
Miss C: Why? That was rude. I dont like the tone of your voice, are you saying I am a 
liar?
Agent: I didnt say that.
Miss C: Why did you expect me not to have received it then? Is your process that bad, 
is it normal for people not to receive it? 
Agent: No, we dont have to show that you received it, just that it was sent
Miss C: You shouldnt have any expectations of me.
Agent: Right, but we dont have to show that it was sent out, so the default will remain.
Lloyds say that the agent said he didnt expect Miss C to say she had received the letter 
because this is what he was told before the call was transferred to him. I appreciate that the 
agent may not have intended the comment to come across as rude or assuming in this 
context. But when questioned about it, the agent failed to clarify what was meant by the 
comment  and just said that all Lloyds had to demonstrate was that the letter was sent. So I 
can see why Miss C was left with the impression that she was being accused of not being 
honest, and I accept that this would have caused her distress and inconvenience  
particularly at a time when she was dealing with a negative credit file. So I do consider that 
compensation is warranted in these circumstances.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had.
The investigator recommended an award of £50. And having considered the service Miss C 
received, I think this award is a proportionate reflection of the impact the comment made by 
the agent has had (even if it was not intended in the way it was, given that it was not later 
clarified what was actually meant). 
So it follows that I uphold this element of Miss Cs complaint, and I think the compensation 
recommended by the investigator is fair in the circumstances.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay £50 
compensation to Miss C within 28 days of receiving her acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman