DRN-1608075
 
The complaint
Ms C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
For the purposes of this complaint, AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the 
sale.
What happened
In 1994, Ms C applied for a store card. At the same time, AXA sold her a PPI policy primarily 
designed to help protect her monthly repayments if she wasnt working due to disability or 
unemployment. 
One of our adjudicators thought the complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA should have given Ms C enough information for her to make an informed decision 
about whether the PPI was right for her. 
Ive looked at the information Ms C was given, but I dont think she was told everything she 
should have been about the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. I think that 
would have mattered to Ms C. I say that because she tells us that, at the time of the sale, 
she was self-employed. 
From experience of the key features of the PPI that AXA tended to sell with store cards 
around the time, its likely the policy terms required the insured to be declared bankrupt or 
cease trading due to insolvency  or similar  before qualifying for unemployment benefit. 
That requirements much more difficult to meet than the requirements for someone who was 
employed. 
I dont think Ms C would have taken the PPI had she known about these restrictions. 
Ive thought carefully about the arguments AXAs raised but I still think the PPI was mis-sold. 
For example, AXA says Ms C hasnt provided any details of her self-employment when the 
PPI was sold to allow it to check the plausibility of her recollections. I understand its 
concerns, although Ive taken into account the fact that the sale was made many years ago. 
That makes it more difficult for someone in Ms Cs position to gather detailed information 
from back then.While Ms C incorrectly stated that the PPI was sold in 1990 when she brought her complaint, 
she did give a summary of her employment history between 1983 and 1998. That included 
that she was self-employed between 1991 and 1998  during which time the PPI was sold.
If anything, I believe Ms Cs mistake in recalling the date of sale as being before her period 
of self-employment only serves to support her testimony about her work situation in 1994. 
After all, she wasnt claiming to be self-employed at the time of the sale simply in the hope, 
for example, that this would lead to the complaint being upheld. Rather she offered that as 
incidental information. But it does seem to me that she genuinely was self-employed at that 
time in any case.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms C would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms C owed when she closed her 
account and what shed have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms C would have owed 
when he closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms C would have owed each month without PPI  Ms C 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms C would have 
owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Ms C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to 
put things right for Ms C as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman