DRN-3549448
The complaint
Mr C and Miss E complain about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc when they were tricked 
into sending money to one of their accountholders as the result of a scam. 
For ease of reading Ill mostly only refer to Miss E where I mean both her and Mr C.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In July 2019 Miss E sent around £65,000 
from her own bank to an account held at HSBC. At the time she believed she was forwarding 
funds to her solicitor for the purchase of a property. But unfortunately, it turned out that some 
emails had been intercepted and the account details were changed. This meant that rather 
than going to her solicitor the payment went to a third partys (HSBC) account. 
Around nine days later Miss E realised shed been the victim of a scam when her solicitor re-
requested the funds. She immediately reported this to her own bank who passed it on to 
HSBC the same day. HSBC later said that theyd been unable to recover any money from 
the account. 
Miss E complained to HSBC, she thought they were at fault for allowing a scammer to open 
and operate an account. She also thought they didnt do enough to prevent the scam from 
taking place. HSBC didnt think theyd done anything wrong and the matter was referred to 
our service. 
One of our Investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. He recommended that 
HSBC should provide a full refund along with interest. HSBC didnt agree and asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint. In April 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that HSBC correctly followed their procedures when opening the account in 
question. They did appropriate due diligence and I dont think they reasonably could have 
known (when opening the account) that it would later go on to be used in connection with a 
fraud or scam. So, I dont think I can fairly conclude that there were any failings by HSBC in 
relation to the opening of the account that resulted in Miss Es loss. 
Ive next gone on to consider the activity and circumstances of the account itself. The 
account was relatively recently opened. Newly opened accounts can present a greater risk 
of being used in connection with fraud and scams. So, I think its reasonable to expect HSBC 
to have been alert to suspicious activity on the account. 
On the same day (but prior to Miss Es payment arriving) there was another significant 
payment into the account. This meant that the account balance on that day was over 
£100,000. This in itself isnt something that would have been unexpected for this account. 
The funds then start being paid away from the account with multiple payments for around 
£8,000. Given the nature of the account into which the funds credited; along with its intended 
and expected use; I dont think the arrival of the payments and the subsequent spending 
was something that would have given rise to concern at that time. 
The following day a similar pattern of payments began again. Given the amounts involved, 
the potential that if the payments were to continue in this way that the account would be 
drained, combined with it being a relatively newly opened account; I think at this point HSBC 
should have identified the risk and ought to have taken some action. The account activity at 
this point starts to resemble a pattern of potentially fraudulent spending. 
I note, around this time HSBCs systems prompted them to phone their customer to verify 
the activity. Due to the passage of time HSBC have confirmed that a recording of this call is 
no longer available  so I cant be sure of what exactly was discussed. But the notes made 
at the time indicate that the accountholder confirmed all the transactions as genuine. So, on 
balance, I think its most likely the intention behind HSBCs call was to simply ensure their 
customer was not at risk of financial harm from fraud. The steps which HSBC took were 
good industry practice at the time and what Id expect HSBC to have done. 
However, as a part of their ongoing obligation to perform due diligence and as a prudent 
bank HSBC should also actively be on the lookout for misuse of their accounts, I dont think 
its unreasonable at this point to have expected HSBC to have noticed the two large recent 
incoming credits to the account. And to have seen that the beneficiary details on 
Miss Es payment didnt match the named accountholder. There isnt any evidence that the 
accountholder was asked to explain this, and I think they should have been  given the 
potential risk. 
It would have been apparent from the beneficiary name provided at the time the payment 
was instructed by Miss E that it may have been intended for a solicitor or lawyer. These are 
types of businesses that HSBC would be aware are commonly targeted in email interception 
scams (such as proved to be the case). Given the account was newly opened, large sums 
paid in were being spent immediately and the fact that there was a concerning beneficiary 
name mismatch on an incoming payment I dont think in these particular circumstances 
simply asking their customer for an explanation would have been enough. I think HSBC 
reasonably ought to have asked their customer for some evidence to explain the mismatch. 
But I also need to keep in mind that the other large incoming payment didnt have a 
mismatch on the beneficiary details nor at this point had HSBC received any notifications of 
fraud in relation to the account in question. The responses given during the call with HSBC 
lead me to conclude that its likely the accountholder was complicit, and their intention would 
have been to obtain the funds. For these reasons I think they would have provided HSBC 
with some sort of documentation to support that they were expecting the funds that were 
received. I appreciate these documents would likely have been falsified and not provided by 
Miss E. But the question is whether HSBC reasonably could have known that at the time? 
Particularly in the absence of a notification of fraud (which didnt come for a further nine 
days) and when faced with a plausible explanation from their accountholder. In these 
circumstances, I dont think there would have been sufficient grounds for HSBC to have 
withheld the money in the account from their customer.  
As such whilst I think HSBC could have done more in relation to how they questioned their 
customer about the account activity. In the circumstances of this complaint, Im not 
persuaded it would have made a difference to the funds leaving the account. And once the 
matter was reported to HSBC, the money had all already left. So I dont think HSBC failed 
once notified. Im of course sympathetic to Miss Es situation. But it isnt sufficient to only identify an error 
by HSBC. I also have to be persuaded that, but for that error, her funds would have 
remained available for recovery. And on the information I have so far, on balance, Im not 
persuaded this would have happened.
The circumstances of accounts that receive scam payments are often varied.  They can be 
genuine accounts that have been taken over, mule accounts where the accountholder is 
persuaded to allow others to use their account or those set up with the specific intention of 
being used fraudulently. This can influence the outcome in terms of how an accountholder 
would have responded to questions by a bank. There are also situations when a scammer 
demonstrates an unwillingness to engage with and speak to a bank  which may mean they 
wouldnt be able to satisfy the bank that the activity was genuine. Ive considered all of these 
factors when reaching my intended decision. 
Ive concluded there was no error by HSBC at account opening. But in this case it seems 
most likely (due to it being a recently opened account and the conversations that took place) 
that it was set up with the intention to be used fraudulently. The evidence supports that 
HSBCs accountholder was willing to answer calls and to confirm the activity on the account 
as genuine. So, its difficult to conclude that they wouldnt have responded in a similar 
manner if asked questions about the incoming payment from Miss E. And I dont think they 
would have been incapable of providing plausible evidence to confirm they were the 
intended beneficiary of the incoming funds. 
HSBC responded and said they had nothing to add. Miss E provided a further response 
which Ill address below. Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I can go 
ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Miss Es submissions refer to the outcome reached by one of our Investigators who 
upheld the complaint. But my role requires that I must reach my own outcome based on all 
the available evidence. My provisional decision outlined the reasons for the outcome I was 
intending to reach and provided both parties a further opportunity to comment. 
The question in this case isnt whether HSBC made any errors. I accept that they did. But 
that isnt on its own sufficient reason to uphold the complaint and make an award. I still have 
to be persuaded that any failing by HSBC effectively caused the loss or prevented its 
recovery. Such considerations, by necessity, have to be made based on what I think most 
likely would have happened. 
I also accept that the beneficiary name provided on Miss Es payment instruction didnt 
match the name of HSBCs accountholder. There was no requirement for HSBC to check 
that this at the time of processing the payment and crediting Miss Es payment to the 
account. The relevant regulations are 90(5) of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
which states Where the payment service user provides information additional to that 
specified in regulation 43(2)(a) (information required prior to the conclusion of a single 
payment service contract) the payment service provider is liable only for the execution of 
the payment transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment 
service user.The unique identifier is typically the account number and sort code or IBAN number. But the 
regulation quoted means that HSBC correctly processed the payment if it went to the unique 
identifiers specified (which it did). Further information such as the beneficiary name and any 
reference arent relevant to the processing of the payment. So I cant conclude that HSBC 
made any error when processing the payment.
Miss E has highlighted the BSI PAS 17271: 2017 Protecting customers from financial harm 
as a result of fraud or financial abuse code of practice. The essence of the code is that 
banks should be alert to unusual or out of character transactions and have sufficient 
processes and systems in place to protect their own customers. 
I agree that HSBC should have intervened in their customers account. But it doesnt make a 
difference whether that was as a result of being concerned for their own customer or as a 
result of identifying a pattern of potentially fraudulent activity. In either case, at that point Id 
have expected HSBC to have asked questions of their account holder and to have identified 
the beneficiary name mismatch on the incoming payment. 
During a call the accountholder confirmed some of the spending of Miss Es funds to be 
genuine. Miss E says that HSBC have failed in their obligations to retain phone calls. 
Obviously, it would have been preferable to have heard the call. But I found in my provisional 
decision that HSBC should have asked their customer about the beneficiary name mismatch 
and there was no evidence to support this had happened. So, I dont think the availability of 
the call has made a difference. Ive concluded HSBC should have done more on that call. 
But we then return to the key point which is that the evidence supports that HSBCs 
accountholder was complicit in some way in the scam. The evidence supports they were 
prepared to answer calls and to engage with HSBC to explain the activity on the account. I 
think its most likely they would have responded in a similar way even if HSBC had done as 
they should. 
I can understand why Miss E has suggested that HSBC should have contacted her sending 
bank and that this could have revealed the scam. Whilst there may be circumstances where 
this might be an appropriate response.  In the circumstances of this complaint, I think the 
first port of call would have been for HSBC to have contacted their own customer. And I 
think, on balance, its most likely the accountholder would have responded, provided a 
plausible explanation, and evidence to support that they were the intended beneficiary of the 
funds. 
Ive also considered an email from the police that Miss E has provided. This provides its 
authors opinion of HSBCs actions. And whilst Ive taken this into account, Im not going to 
deviate from the intended outcome in my provisional decision. The police primarily 
investigate crime, not whether a bank has met its regulatory and best practice obligations 
and whether this has resulted in a loss. And for the reasons Ive explained, whilst HSBC 
could and should have done more, Im not persuaded that in these specific circumstances 
this would have made a difference and that HSBC can therefore fairly be held liable for 
Miss Es loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss E 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman