DRN-2872630
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Nationwide Building Society charged an unreasonably high non-
sterling transaction fee which she wasnt warned about beforehand.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs P made a payment online of over £15,000. As this was in a foreign 
currency, a non-sterling transaction fee was applied of 2.99%, which came to just over £450. 
Mrs P says shes made payments in a foreign currency before where the charges have been 
minimal, so she didnt expect the fee to be so high. She complains that Nationwide didnt do 
enough to make her aware of the amount shed be charged. And if shed known, she says 
she wouldve gone into a branch to make the payment where the fees are much lower. 
Nationwide says its fees are set out in the account terms and conditions and that it has 
charged Mrs P the correct fee for this type of transaction. It says this information is available 
on its website as well as its online banking and banking app. But as Mrs P made the 
transaction through a third-party website, Nationwide says it has no control over the content 
she wouldve seen on it. 
Mrs P brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She was 
satisfied Nationwide had applied the correct fee and that information regarding the charges 
was readily available. She also found that Mrs P had made these types of transactions in the 
past and a 2.99% fee has been applied, so she believed Mrs P should reasonably have 
been aware of the applicable charges. 
As Mrs P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Nationwide are entitled to charge a fee for the services it provides. And I understand its non-
sterling transaction fee is in line with what other banks would charge for this service. So Im 
not persuaded the fee itself is unreasonable. But Ive thought about whether Mrs P has been 
treated fairly by receiving clear, fair and non-misleading information about the charges 
applicable to her account.  
Nationwide has told us that Mrs P opened her account in branch and she wouldve been 
provided with the accounts terms and conditions as well as information on the interest rates 
and charges. Mrs P wouldve had to agree to these terms in order to open her account. 
I can see that within the fee table, it shows that non-sterling transactions will attract a fee of 
2.99%. This information is also set out on the back page of Mrs Ps statements. And whilst I 
understand her account is paperless, the information is also available on Nationwides 
website; its online banking and its banking app.
Mrs P complains that Nationwide shouldve made her aware of the fee when she made her 
transaction. But its my understanding that she made her online payment on a third-party 
website. So its not clear to me how she would expect Nationwide to have any control over 
the information displayed there. If Mrs P was concerned about the fees applicable to her 
transaction, Im satisfied the information was readily available to her on Nationwides own 
platforms. 
Having looked at Mrs Ps statements, I can see that shes made payments in a foreign 
currency before. And shes been charged the non-sterling transaction fee. I appreciate these 
payments were for far less amounts, so the fees applied were minimal. But I think that given 
the fees were different for each transaction, this would reasonably have indicated to Mrs P 
that the fee wasnt a fixed amount, but rather it was on a percentage basis.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Nationwide has gone far enough to provide 
Mrs P with clear, fair and non-misleading information about the fees applicable to her 
account. And it cant fairly be held responsible for information displayed on a third-party 
website.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman