DRN-3384582
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly rejected his landlords property 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr M owned a property which he rented out, and it was insured with AXA. Mr M claimed for 
damage to the property around the middle of 2021, after his tenants had moved out. In 
particular for the shower cubicle and surrounding area, and so he submitted a claim to AXA 
for the repairs.
AXA arranged for the property to be inspected but no insured peril was found to have 
occurred. Mr M said AXA also told him the damage had been longstanding and therefore 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr M thought this was unfair. He said that the tenants hadnt allowed them to visit the 
property to carry out inspections, in part due to Covid-19  although Mr M has also said he 
was shielding.
AXA maintained their decision so Mr M brought the matter to our service. An investigator 
here looked into it and found that AXA had been reasonable in relying on the inspection 
report and the onus was on Mr M to demonstrate that an insured peril caused the damage.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful for me to begin by explaining that insurance policies are limited in the cover 
they provide. So not everything that may require repair is insured. Policies will commonly 
cover things (generally known as perils), including storm and fire damage or escape of 
water; but landlord policies like Mr Ms may also cover malicious damage caused by tenants.
For something to be covered theres a general onus on the policyholder to show something 
thats covered has caused the damage. Although thats not always easy for people to do, so 
often insurers will arrange for the damage to be assessed by a professional. Thats why AXA 
arranged for Mr Ms property to be inspected.
The inspection report suggested the damage could have resulted from a poorly plastered 
wall to the cubicle area, a lack of aquaboard or low-cost tiles being used. The report also 
said that the surveyor had been unable to establish when the damage occurred nor that an 
insured peril caused it.
Mr M suggested that the damage may have resulted from failed grouting or through 
negligence of the tenants. But negligence wouldnt be classed as being malicious, there 
would need to be clearer evidence that the damage had been done on purpose rather than 
through a lack of care.
I appreciate Mr M has said the reason they didnt claim earlier was because of Covid-19 
restrictions being in place, but I dont think thats the reason AXA rejected the claim. I think 
AXA has done the reasonable thing in having the property inspected to see if the damage 
could be covered by the insurance policy. Its just theyve found no evidence to show the 
cause is something thats covered.
While Mr Ms policy also covers escape of water, that is for when things like pipes burst. But 
in Mr Ms case it hasnt been established that thats what happened. Rather it has been said, 
and shown, that tiles and a shower tray are cracked. And if this is through neglect it would be 
classed as wear and tear  something which isnt covered. And insurance policies dont 
cover maintenance of a property, which is what this would appear to be. Mr M has said that 
he doesnt know how the damage was caused and as AXAs inspection couldnt find a cause 
thats covered either, it wasnt unreasonable of them to reject his claim.
Overall, I dont think AXA have treated Mr M unfairly. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman