DRN-2344852
The complaint
Mr P complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC failed to acknowledge receipt of cheques he
sent to it for two fixed-term deposit accounts. He also feels that Al Rayan made errors
reinvesting money from another of his matured fixed-term deposit accounts and other
general administrative errors.
What happened
Our investigator investigated that matter and concluded that Al Rayans response to 
the issues Mr P had raised was fair.
He explained that, in respect of the two cheques sent in to open the accounts, it wasnt 
Al Rayans policy to acknowledge receipt of these. Instead, its process was to send a 
confirmation letter when accounts were opened. The investigator felt this was 
reasonable. But he noted that thered been a technical issue with the opening of one of 
the accounts, which had led to a delay and concern from Mr P that he hadnt received a 
confirmation.
However, the investigator felt that AL Rayans response to this  to open the account 
promptly on discovery of the error, back date interest due and pay Mr P £50 in 
compensation was fair.
In respect of the re-investment, the investigator accepted Al Rayans explanation that the 
two-day gap between maturity and re-investment had been a result of Mr P changing his 
decision on what he wanted to do with the maturity proceeds. And he concluded that the 
amounts involved were correct. He noted that Mr P had questioned being told that he 
would receive a new rate of 2.42% then only actually got 2.4%, but he felt that as the 
annual equivalent rate (AER) was 2.42% Mr P hadnt been misinformed.
There were several other administrative errors raised by Mr P:
Al Rayan failed to notify him about the maturity of his account. 
It failed to spell his surname correctly. 
He instructed it to close one of his accounts with a balance of £0.80 and send him 
the accrued money but it hadnt.
Al Rayans letters were unclear as they all used only one reference number rather 
than different numbers to reflect different accounts.
He was unhappy with a £5.00 charge for statements.
The investigator didnt feel that Al Rayan had acted incorrectly in respect of any of 
these points. He said:
Al Rayan said it sent Mr P a letter two weeks before maturity and having 
reviewed a call recording from 12 April 2019, it seems Mr P was aware of when 
the account was due to mature.
It has confirmed that it amended its records to reflect the correct spelling of Mr Ps 
name.
The account with a balance of £0.80 had been closed and Al Rayan was awaiting 
further instructions to send the accrued balance.
It had added notes to ensure letters would be sent with full account numbers
The charge for statements was noted in Al Rayans tariff list and a reasonable 
administrative cost.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view. He reiterated several of his previous points 
and said the matter had left him apprehensive, anxious and suffering sleepless nights. 
Hed spent numerous hours on the phone so should be compensated more. Further, 
his name was still being spelt incorrectly.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why, although I generally agreed 
with what the investigator had said and the reasoning hed given, I felt that the 
compensation should be increased to £150. I said:
I understand that Mr P would like to receive confirmation of cheques being received. But I 
think that Al Rayans commercial decision to alternatively confirm the successful set up of 
the account is reasonable. As the process is usually quite prompt, any issues would soon 
be highlighted by the non-receipt of the account opening confirmation.
And thats what happened with one of Mr Ps accounts on this occasion. But Al 
Rayans process still enabled the issue to be spotted and put right for Mr P.
As the investigator noted, the other administrative issues do seem to have been 
addressed, or  as with the statement charge for example  they are areas where I dont 
think its been shown that Al Rayan acted incorrectly.
That said, it has come to light that the misspelling of Mr Ps surname has not been 
corrected, despite him being told it had been many months ago. I think this continued 
failure, coupled with the mistake in not opening one of his accounts  which was for a 
significant amount of
£62,000  will have caused him the sort of distress that hes described, and I dont think that
£50 goes far enough to compensate him for this.
I think a sum of £150 more reasonably reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr P and 
I propose that this is the amount that should be paid to him.
Al Rayan accepted my provisional decision.
Mr P responded with some additional comments concerning the interest rate, the 
maturity process, the spelling of his surname and the charge for statements. He also 
voiced his concerns about Al Rayans general handling of the complaint, particularly in 
respect of the issue of re-investment of maturity proceeds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive noted all Mr Ps further comments but, having done so, Im not persuaded to depart 
from the overall conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. I appreciate that hes 
unhappy
with a number of issues and the way in which Al Rayan has responded to them, but I 
think the increased compensation of £150 reflects these fairly.
Mr P has asked for assurances from Al Rayan going forward, but Im not in a position to 
direct Al Rayan to give such assurances. My decision has focussed on the problems that 
arose in 2019 and what I think is fair compensation for them. Should any further issues arise 
with Mr Ps dealings with Al Rayan, which I hope will not be the case, hell be able to raise 
them with Al Rayan and if necessary, once again refer them to this service.
Putting things right
Al Rayan must pay £150 compensation to Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Al Rayan 
Bank PLC to pay Mr P a total of £150, inclusive of the £50 it has already offered to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman