DRN-3794304
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr M entered into a four year hire agreement to acquire a new car. The 
agreement reached maturity in July 2022 and the car was collected by MBFS recovery 
agents  who Ill refer to as B. 
B carried out an inspection at Mr Ms property on the day the car was collected. It identified 
damage to a number of areas of the car, but it didnt confirm the severity of the damage. It 
said a second inspection was needed, charges would be advised and it noted that Mr M 
didnt agree with the reported condition of the car.
Four days after B had collected the car from Mr M, it carried out a second inspection. It said 
the following damage, totalling £612.55, was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Spare key  missing - £145.95
2. Left hand front wheel alloy  rim damaged over 50mm - £110
3. Bumper front  scratched over 50mm - £210
4. Aerial  missing - £16
5. Right hand front door shut  dented - £130
Mr M complained to MBFS. He said he wasnt aware of MBFSs Vehicle Return Standards 
(VRS) and because of this, he didnt have the opportunity to have any damage repaired 
before he returned the car. Mr M also said that B didnt collect the spare key from him on the 
day of collection. 
MBFS issued its response to Mr Ms complaint. It said the damage charges were evident but 
agreed to remove the charge for the missing aerial. It also confirmed Mr M had been 
charged for excess mileage he had covered. So, the remaining balance owed by Mr M for 
the damage identified was £595.95 in addition to the excess mileage charge of £1,293.41.
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He said on the day of 
collection, B identified damage to the car and he offered to have this damage repaired, but 
he wasnt given an opportunity to repair it. He also said he was charged for a spare key, but 
he believed B didnt collect it. He said he wanted MBFS to show him what damage had been 
repaired and he wanted it to remove the charge for the spare key.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he thought the charges were applied 
fairly in line with VRS and the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. He also said because Mr M didnt 
return the spare key with the car, it was fair for B to charge for this. 
Mr M disagreed. He said the spare key was made available for B when it collected the car. 
But he said B forgot to take the key or it was left behind by mistake.
As Mr M disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
MBFS is no longer charging Mr M for the missing aerial and Mr M isnt complaining about the 
excess mileage charge. So I havent commented on these charges as part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr M has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr M complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as 
this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ms complaint 
against MBFS. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA 
guidelines alongside MBFS VRS. 
The VRS are set out in Mr Ms hire agreement and these explain the standards that MBFS 
expected this car to meet on return. When Mr M acquired the car under the hire agreement, 
he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the VRS. And he agreed that 
MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or 
the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as compensation. 
Alloys 
In relation to alloys, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:
minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face. 
And the following is not acceptable: 
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm. 
BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable. 
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels. 
Ive looked at the photographs provided for the left hand front wheel alloy where damage 
was identified by B. The photographs show damage and scuffing in excess of 25mm. In light 
of this, Im satisfied MBFS is entitled to charge Mr M for the damage to the left hand front 
wheel alloy as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Bumper 
Bs condition report identified that the front bumper was scratched over 50mm. 
In relation to the bumper and body mouldings, the VRS say the following isnt acceptable: 
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your 
vehicleThe BVRLA says for scratches to bumpers and the body and paint of a car:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable. 
Ive looked at the photographs which show the front bumper. These show there is a 
noticeable scratch on the bumper which is around 35mm and the primer is showing. As a 
result of this, I think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr M for the repair to the front bumper as it 
falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Right hand front door shut
In relation to body and paint, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:
Minor body dents, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that: a) they are 
less than 13mm (1/2) diameter  maximum 1 dent per panel to maximum of 2 dents per 
vehicle for vehicles up to 2 years old and 4 dents for vehicles over 2 years. b) if more than 2 
(or 4) dents exist, the most severe should be repaired.
The BVRLA says for damage to the door aperture, boot, boot liner and luggage area:
Scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal use are acceptable.
Ive looked at the photographs provided for the right hand front door shut where damage was 
identified by B. The photographs show a dent which is in excess of 13mm and there are 
around six paint markings in the same area of the damage. This damage doesnt appear to 
be caused due to door to door contact as it is in the interior of the car. And given that there is 
also a number of paint markings in the area, Im not satisfied this reflects normal use. So 
having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied MBFS is entitled to charge Mr M for the 
damage to the right hand front door shut as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Spare key
The VRS state that the car must be returned with no missing components or parts which 
were fitted as standard equipment.
Mr M isnt disputing that the spare key wasnt in the car when it was collected by B. Instead 
he says the spare key was made available for B when it collected the car. But he said B 
forgot to take the key or it was left behind by mistake. B noted on the first inspection that the 
spare key was missing in the car at the time it was collected from Mr M. And the second 
inspection confirms the spare key isnt present. As both Mr M and B have provided two 
conflicting version of events about the spare key, Ive thought about what I think is most 
likely to have happened on a balance of probabilities.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that B did tell Mr M that the spare key was 
missing at the time it collected the car. I say this because the version of events Mr M has 
described, doesnt appear to be supported by the inspection report carried out by B at the 
time of collection. 
B was required to check that the spare key was available as part of the condition report and 
if so, retain it. The photographs and video from the inspection report carried out at the time 
the car was collected, show one set of keys being present and some of the other items that 
were due to be returned with the car. B marked that the spare key was missing and Mr M 
disagreed with the reported condition at the time.
Having thought about this carefully, I think its likely on balance, that the spare key wasnt 
provided to B because if it was, I see no reason why B would report the spare key as 
missing, especially given Mr M has said he made it available and he says B forgot to take it. 
In addition, I think its reasonable Mr M would have made B aware that it had forgot to collect 
the spare key, as he says it did, when he reviewed the inspection report and disagreed with 
its findings.  MBFS is entitled to charge Mr M for any loss it has suffered. In this case, it says it replaced 
the spare key as it was missing when the car was returned by Mr M. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr M for the cost of replacing it.
Did MBFS act unfairly in any other way?
Mr M says he wasnt provided with an opportunity to repair any of the damage identified by B 
and that he wasnt aware of the VRS. 
However, Mr M was provided with a copy of the VRS at the time he took out the agreement 
as the VRS are contained within his hire agreement. The VRS are clear and it would have 
been down to Mr M to carry out any repairs before the car was collected by B. So Im 
satisfied Mr M was provided with a copy of the VRS and he was made aware what damage 
was and wasnt acceptable under the VRS. And so, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong 
when it didnt provide Mr M with an opportunity to repair the car before he handed it back. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman