DRN-2636882
The complaint
Mr C complains that his home insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI) wouldnt pay for all of his 
repairs under his escape of water claim at his home and has been unsupportive.
 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr C reported damage from a leaking shower in his home to UKI. He said 
following UKIs assessment he was told to engage a contractor to investigate the cause. He 
said the contractor found extensive damage including to floor joists and the repairs were 
much more expensive than was originally thought. 
Mr C said in July 2020 UKI made an offer to pay £3,176 in settlement of his claim against a 
final invoice of £7,310 which he had already paid to the contractor. He said the contractor 
has provided UKI with full details and photos of the damage and repairs required. He said 
UKI has been unsupportive and uninterested in the receipts for items for his bathroom.
UKI said Mr C delayed providing it with information from his contractor and then disputed the 
amount it offered in settlement. UKI said it then offered to send its contractors to do the 
work, but Mr C had already gone ahead with the repairs without its authorisation. UKI said if 
it agrees to using a policyholders suppliers or to make a cash payment, UKI will only pay 
what it would have cost it using its own suppliers, and that is the basis of its offer to Mr C.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said UKI offered Mr C a cash 
payment for the repairs, but it wasnt enough to meet his costs. He said the policy gives UKI 
the choice and it can pay cash at a policyholders request at what it wouldve cost UKI. But 
he said UKI should put Mr C back in the position he was in before the damage occurred. And 
our services approach is that if an insurer only offers a cash settlement, the amount should 
be the cost to the policyholder so that they are indemnified. 
Mr C accepted the investigators view but UKI did not and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. UKI said Mr C had to stop the leak and confirm the cause of the damage 
before it could look at the repairs or repair costs. UKI said it requested he provide an 
estimate and damage report, but he delayed doing so and went ahead with the repairs 
without authority. UKI said it wasnt given the chance to offer a contractor before he did this.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also listened to the call highlighted by UKI where Mr C initially agreed to the cash 
settlement offered by UKI. 
Mr C complains that UKI has failed to meet the costs he incurred for the repairs to his home 
following an escape of water. UKI said that before any claim can be accepted it needs to 
know the cause of damage. It said it didnt have the chance to offer a contractor as it didnt 
have a cause of damage to confirm if there was a valid claim.
I can see that Mr C caused delay in obtaining the contractors report and estimate on his 
shower leak at UKIs request. UKI pursued this on several occasions but its clear Mr C had 
difficulty in obtaining contractors services during the pandemic to assess the work and he 
had to wait until July 2020 to submit an estimate. Mr Cs circumstances were difficult at this 
time and I dont think the delay was either partys fault, but I sympathise with Mr C and his 
family for the delay.
In July 2020 Mr C sent UKI an email from a plumber who had identified a fracture in the 
waste pipe which had caused the leak. In response to this information, UKI made an offer of 
£3,176 to cash settle Mr Cs claim. I cant see that Mr C had requested a cash settlement 
and it doesnt appear that UKI offered Mr C the choice of the payment or its repairers to put 
right the damage. In August 2020 Mr Cs wife contacted UKI and it said it could instruct a 
repairer to carry out the work. However, by this time the work had been carried out. 
UKI said it didnt have the opportunity to verify the claim. But it didnt have to wait for Mr Cs 
information and might have guessed that he was having difficulty in meeting its requirement 
during the pandemic. UKI could have sent an assessor in the period of delay to verify the 
claim. This would have reassured Mr C that UKI was actively involved in his claim and could 
have speeded up the resolution to his home problems. UKI might also have explained the 
options available to Mr C. Although this didnt happen, UKI did tell Mr C it could assist with 
the removal of his bathroom suite to cut costs.
The purpose of indemnity insurance is to place the policyholder as closely as possible back 
to the position they occupied before loss or damage occurred. In this case that means
repairing the damage to what it was before the damage happened. Our approach is that if an 
insurer only offers a cash settlement, the amount should reflect the cost to the consumer. If 
the settlement offer is lower than this, then it wont indemnify the consumer because it wont 
put them back in the position they were before the damage happened.
So, although I understand the calculation of UKIs offer as what it might have cost it to have 
the repairs carried out, I dont think its fair for UKI to rely on the term of the insurance policy 
to do this. I agree with the investigator that UKI should indemnify Mr C for the costs hes 
incurred for the repairs when originally it didnt offer the alternative of its contractors carrying 
out the repairs. As UKI has chosen to settle the claim in cash, then I think its only fair to 
expect UKI to take into account what it cost Mr C to have the repairs completed.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require UK 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr C the amount hes incurred on the repairs relevant to his 
escape of water claim, less the policy excess. Mr C should provide evidence of the work 
and payment to UKI.
UK Insurance Limited should add interest to that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date that Mr C paid his contractor to the date it makes payment to him. If UK 
Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman