DRN-2067845
The complaint
Miss E says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss E took out a home credit loan with Provident in November 2006. Our adjudicator 
explained to Miss E that this loan was granted before Provident (and consumer credit firms 
generally) came into our jurisdiction. This service is not able to consider anything Provident 
didnt  or didnt  do prior to 6 April 2007, including Providents decision to lend to Miss E. 
So our adjudicator didnt comment on Providents decision to lend to Miss E in 2006.
Miss E struggled to repay this loan and in December 2010 it was rolled into what Provident 
calls a solve agreement. This was in effect a new credit agreement which rescheduled the 
loan to reduce the weekly repayments, but without adding any extra interest when compared 
to the original agreement. According to the information provided by Provident, the balance of 
Miss Es loan at this time was £687.85 and under the solve agreement would be repaid at 
£4.98 per week, rather than the £19.80 per week due under the old agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt think Provident had done anything wrong by rearranging Miss Es loan 
in this way. Miss E, through her representative, asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As our adjudicator explained, Im not able to look into Providents original decision to lend to 
Miss E in 2006. So Ive focussed on whether Provident did anything wrong when it 
rearranged Miss Es loan in 2010.
I can see that one of Miss Es main concerns is that she feels a repayment plan would have 
been more appropriate when she got into difficulties repaying the 2006 loan. But I think, in 
effect, the solve loan was the same as a repayment plan. It had the same characteristics in 
that it reduced her weekly payments significantly without any additional interest being 
charged.
It does not look like this solve loan was successful. The repayment history provided by 
Provident ends in January 2012 with a balance of over £500 still outstanding. I have no 
information about what happened after that date. But I do not think this means the solve loan 
wasnt a fair solution to Miss Es financial difficulties  Ive no evidence about Miss Es 
financial situation at the time which would suggest that Provident ought to have realised, 
from proportionate checks, that the solve loan wasnt an affordable solution.
I realise this will be disappointing for Miss E but I am not able to uphold her complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman