DRN-3111510
The complaint
Mr M says Healthcare Finance Limited (HFL) has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M borrowed £999 from HFL to pay for teeth alignment treatment for his 
wife, Ms M, from a company Ill call Business A.
Before her treatment was complete, Business A went into administration.
In or around December 2020, Mr M contacted the credit broker that had arranged the loan to 
make a claim under section 75 of the CCA. He also referred a complaint to our service. 
Mr M wants a full refund of the money hes paid and the loan balance cancelled. He also 
wants an apology for poor customer service. 
The credit broker, which responded to the section 75 claim on behalf of HFL, applied a credit 
of £149 to Mr Ms loan account, which it says is the cost of the retainers Ms M didnt receive.
Separately, one of our investigators explained to Mr M that section 75 doesnt apply in this 
case because it requires a relationship between Mr M, Business A and HFL that doesnt 
exist.
Mr M doesnt think this is fair  so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buys goods and services on credit. It says, 
in certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under 
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA.
Here, Mr M is the debtor and HFL is the creditor. However, Business A, which is the 
supplier, almost certainly entered into an agreement with Ms M as shes the patient  and 
only the patient can consent to and receive such treatment.
I know Mr M will be very disappointed, but this means there isnt a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement within the meaning of section 12(b) or (c)  so section 75 doesnt apply.
As HFL isnt legally answerable for any alleged breach of contract by Business A, I dont 
think it needs to refund any of Mr Ms payments or cancel the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman