Complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W took out a mortgage in November 1994. At the same time he also took out a regular 
premium PPI policy covering him for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr W in        
November 1994, which isnt unusual given the sale took place almost 25 years ago. As a 
result, Nationwide hasnt been able to provide copies of Mr Ws actual paperwork from the 
time of sale. 
So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened at the time of sale. 
Nationwide says that Mr W would have been given a choice about the PPI and it would have 
gained his consent before adding it to his mortgage. Mr W, on the other hand, says he 
doesnt remember agreeing to the PPI and would have declined it had he be given a choice.
Due to the time that has passed and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt 
anything to say whether or not Nationwide gave Mr W a choice about the PPI. Businesses 
arent required to keep information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that 
Nationwide wouldnt have given Mr W a choice or gained his consent, just because it doesnt 
have the paperwork. I cant assume something went wrong when there isnt any persuasive 
evidence that it did. So it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint on this basis.
DRN-1059459Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W. Mr W, however, says it did. So Ive 
thought about what both parties have said, taking into account the available information from 
the time of sale  including the fact that Mr Ws told us he doesnt recall any discussions 
about the PPI at the time of sale. Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Nationwide assessed Mr Ws circumstances at the time and recommended that Mr W 
take out the PPI. This means Nationwide didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr W chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. So it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr W has told us he would have been entitled to sick pay from his employer if he was too 
unwell to work. Hes also told us that he could have relied on his friends and family to help 
with his mortgage repayments.
Having thought about what Mr W has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means he 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial 
commitment. If repayments arent met borrowers stand to lose their home. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr W would have received from his employer and 
would have potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay  up to 24 
months per claim. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr W was ever made 
redundant.
Ive also thought about what Mr W has said about the fact that he could have relied on his 
friends and family to help him with his repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the 
PPI wasnt useful for him. While Mr Ws friends and family would want to help, their financial 
situation could change and so this help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mr W could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
my final decision
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman