DRN-2126526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK plc, trading at the time as National & Provincial, mis-sold 
them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1993.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 1993 at the same time as they applied for a further 
advance on their mortgage. Neither party can confirm where the sale took place. The policy 
gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint, but Santander disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely 
based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to make sure it was right for 
them. I dont think it was. I say this as I think Mr and Mrs W had enough other protection not 
to really need this PPI policy given its cost and benefit level. Mr W was entitled to at least 
three months sick pay and Mrs W was entitled to 26 weeks full pay if she was sick and after 
that she had an income protection plan that paid out 75% of her salary. We dont have 
confirmation of how long this wouldve paid out for, but based on what we know about the 
typical terms of these policies its likely it would have been paid until she was back at work. 
They also had savings worth between six- and 12-months salary and were both entitled to a 
redundancy package. So, overall, I dont think they had a strong need for the PPI. 
Santander argues that the supporting evidence we are relying for confirmation of Mrs Ws 
employment benefits is dated 2001, and the sale was in 1993. But its not dated 2001 
because the benefits were put in place then, rather because that was when they were 
amended due to Mrs Ws transfer of employment. And we know Mrs W started working for 
her employer in 1990. So whilst I agree, as the bank says, it cannot be used to know 
conclusively what the companys policy was in 1993, I dont think its unreasonable to take it 
into account given Mr and Mrs Ws consistent testimony that Mrs W already had sickness 
and accident insurance through her employer at the time of the sale. Santander also 
highlights that the document states that under the income protection policy it only commits 
that the underwriter may admit the claim and pay out the benefit. But that is in line with 
most insurance policies where the success of a claim isnt guaranteed. I dont think it is a fair 
reason not to consider the policy as existing and overlapping protection that Mrs W already 
had at the time of the sale. The bank also argues that we dont know when the deferral 
period started from but I think its most likely the timing of the deferral period was aligned to 
Mrs Ws sick pay entitlement. I say this based on how such policies are typically structured 
when offered as an employment benefit  so one starts when the other finishes.
It also argues that the document says her sick pay was up to six weeks in a 12-month period 
and we dont know where Mrs W was on that scale. But the document says it was up to 26 
weeks in a 12-month period. And whilst I accept we dont know for certain, I think it is more 
likely the up to means the sick pay entitlement will be determined by how long the 
employee is off work out of the 26-week period, rather than a sliding scale based on time in 
role as the bank suggests. 
Finally, Santander says a discussion took place to identify Mr and Mrs Ws needs, but they 
say no checks were done. The bank hasnt been able to provide any notes or records from 
the sale to evidence that it adequately considered Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances before 
making its recommendation, or to explain why it recommended this PPI as being right for 
them. So I dont know how and why it came to that view. On balance I think its most likely 
Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have bought this PPI if they had been properly advised.
It follows I think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of what Santander did wrong.
Putting things right
Santander must put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. If the policy hasnt already been cancelled it should be and Santander must:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI until the policy was 
cancelled.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and Santander UK Plc must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman