DRN-3418228
The complaint
Mr K complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund him for payments he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr K says he lost his card and numerous contactless payments were made. Mr K 
complained to TSB but it didnt refund the payments. 
TSB says Mr K must have kept his personal identification number (PIN) with his card or 
given the card and PIN to someone else to use.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. The investigator thought Mr K 
had authorised the payments as the PIN had been used for some of the transactions.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators assessment and said his sister knew his PIN and 
hed kept it written down. The investigator still didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld, 
they felt Mr K had been grossly negligent by sharing his PIN with someone else.
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule TSB can hold Mr K liable for payments if the evidence suggests he 
authorised them. And TSB can fairly decline to refund if it thinks Mr K has been grossly 
negligent with his security details, which includes his PIN.
Looking at the transactions, its difficult to say with certainty Mr K authorised the contactless 
payments. This is because only the card is needed. Mr K says he lost his card and phone at 
the same, and although he later found his phone his card was no longer with it.
But I can see some of the transactions have been authorised with Mr Ks PIN. There are five 
cash machine withdrawals, and these have been made with Mr Ks PIN. So, for the purposes 
of my decision Ill combine the contactless and card and PIN transactions.
If I decide Mr K authorised the card and PIN transactions, then Ill also decide he authorised 
the contactless payments too. And if I think Mr K was grossly negligent, then Ill decide TSB 
is fair in holding Mr K liable for all the transactions, including the contactless ones.
The cash machine transactions also included balance enquiries. Mr K had in excess of 
£5,000 in his account when he lost his card. But during the six days his card was missing 
just £70 was withdrawn from cash machines.
There was still over £4,000 left in Mr Ks account when he reported his card lost.
If a random third party had obtained Mr Ks card and PIN I would have expected them to 
have taken far more money than was spent on Mr Ks card.
Im persuaded whoever had Mr Ks card had his PIN as well. Mr K told TSB he hadnt shared 
his PIN with anyone or written it down. But Mr K then told our investigator he had given his 
sister his PIN and kept it written down.
I think Mr K has been grossly negligent by keeping his PIN recorded and by sharing it with 
someone else. I think the only other explanation for the payments is Mr K authorised 
someone else to make the transactions on his behalf.
In either event, I dont think TSB needs to refund any of the transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman