DRN-1967436
The complaint
Mr C complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPAs) handling of his travel insurance 
claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I havent listened to the phone calls, as IPA doesnt dispute what Mr C has said 
happened. Though I have read the phone notes.
IPA advised Mr C to go to one of its preferred hospitals, but it caused unnecessary 
delays because it hadnt sent the hospital a guarantee of payment. It also hadnt 
provided a guarantee of payment for a fit-to-fly certificate, which caused Mr C 
embarrassment. There were also further delays in communicating with its agent in 
the country.
Its apparent that IPA made errors with this claim, and I can understand Mr Cs 
frustration with this, particularly given the pain he was in at the time. IPA offered Mr C 
£350 compensation for the service hed received. Given the inconvenience Mr C 
experienced as a result of IPAs errors, I think the amount of compensation it offered 
was appropriate in the circumstances, though I appreciate Mr C strongly disagrees 
with this.
Although Mr C is unhappy about the treatment he received in the hospital, I agree 
with the investigator that IPA didnt have any control over the medical decisions 
made by the hospital. It had established that Mr C could receive treatment for his 
condition at that hospital, which was appropriate.
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. Although Mr C has asked that we address 
each of the points he raised, as an informal organisation, we dont need to do this. However, 
Id like to reassure him that Ive considered each of his points before reaching my decision.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied Inter Partner 
Assistance SA has offered appropriate compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman