The complaint
Ms S says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms S had one loan with Lending Stream in May 2016. The loan was for £350 and was 
repayable in six monthly instalments. An adjudicator considered Ms S's complaint but didn't 
think it should be upheld. Ms S disagreed, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Ms S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Before Lending to Ms S, Lending Stream asked her to provide some information about her 
income and outgoings. Ms S said she earned £1,500 per month and had outgoings totalling 
£1,250. Lending Stream also carried out a credit check and this suggested Ms S had one 
defaulted account on her credit file and nine active accounts in total.
Based on the information Lending Stream had, I don't think it was wrong to have provided 
this one loan to Ms S. Although Ms S had some (relatively recent) adverse information on 
her credit file, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to think, on balance, that the loan 
was affordable for her. I don't think it needed to go as far as to ask Ms S for copies of her 
payslips before proving this loan. It may be that a more in-depth examination of Ms S's 
finances would've shown that this loan wasn't affordable, however I don't think that would've 
been proportionate.
I'm sorry to hear Ms S lost her job after taking out this loan. But I don't think that was 
something Lending Stream could have foreseen.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I'm not upholding this complaint against Gain Credit LLC.
DRN-1610148Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman