DRN-4529817
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Dynamo Cover Limited applied a Retail Price Index adjustment to his 
GAP insurance and breakdown policy which he wasnt informed of at the point of sale. He 
was subsequently charged a fee when he tried to cancel his policy. 
What happened
In 2021, using an online comparison site, Mr Z took out a GAP Insurance and 
breakdown policy for 48 months of cover. 
In 2023, Mr Z was contacted by Dynamo to advise of a premium adjustment in line 
with the Retail Price Index (RPI). Mr Z says this wasnt mentioned when he took out 
the policy. 
Mr Z subsequently asked to cancel his policy as he no longer had the car, but he was 
told hed have to pay a cancellation charge. 
As he was unhappy, Mr Z raised a complaint. But when Dynamo didnt respond, he 
contacted our service. 
Our Investigator was satisfied that Dynamo had acted fairly because the RPI and 
cancellation charges were clearly sent out in the policy documentation. 
Mr Z didnt agree as he says the policy terms arent fair or transparent. He says hes 
due a pro rata refund which he hasnt received. And Dynamos complaint handling 
didnt meet the regulators guidelines. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide, and I issued a provisional decision which 
Ive set out below.
My provisional decision
Mr Z took out his policy using an online comparison website on what wed call a non-
advised sale basis. This means Mr Z didnt take any advice on the policy and whether it met 
his needs. In these circumstances, Dynamo must provide Mr Z with enough information to 
make an informed decision about taking out the policy. 
Mr Z says the RPI premium adjustments werent mentioned when he purchased the policy, 
so Ive looked at the information provided on the price comparison website. I can see that on 
the table of results which set out all the policies available to Mr Z, Dynamos entry has a pink 
banner which says this provider reserves the right to potentially increase their fees in line 
with the Retail Price Index plus 3.8% during the year.  
Once the Dynamo policy is selected, Mr Z wouldve been taken to Dynamos website where 
he wouldve had to tick a box that said hed read, understood, and accepted the policy 
documents and terms of business. It gave links to the pricing policy, terms of business, 
policy wording, and key facts document. It wasnt possible for Mr Z to complete the purchase 
of the policy without ticking that box. So I feel that Dynamo did enough to bring the relevant 
terms to Mr Zs attention before he bought the policy.
The pricing policy document says:
Each year, your Fee for our services will be increased by the RPI rate of inflation 
announced in February plus 3.8%. If the RPI is negative, well only apply the 3.8%. 
RPI is a widely recognised measure of the general level of inflation. Several 
industries use it as a guide on whether to adjust prices and by how much.
As a Dynamo Cover user, the RPI will impact the fee charged for our services  We 
reserve the right to amend the cost for our services during your agreement, and pass 
the cost on to you the consumer. Please refer to our Terms of Business for further 
information.
It goes on to explain what RPI is and how its calculated. 
The Terms of Business document says:
Each year the Fee for our service or our Membership Fee will be subject to an 
annual increase. This is determined by calculating to the total amount paid to us by 
the RPI Rate plus an additional 3.8%, which is applied at the same time. If the RPI 
Rate is negative, we'll only apply the 3.8% - The RPI rate is usually announced by 
the UK Government in February each year. When this occurs we will contact you to 
confirm what price impact this will have on yourself and will process this charge 
either in April using the card details we hold on file, or this amount will be added to 
your Direct Debit payment plan.
Your fee paid is detailed on your schedule of insurance and is separate to your 
Premium paid and Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). This annual price rise will be 
shown as an additional Fee and not an increase in the Premium or IPT paid.
It goes on to give examples of the calculations. 
As such, Im satisfied Dynamo provided Mr Z with enough information to make an informed 
decision on whether he wanted to take out the policy. I appreciate Mr Z now says these 
terms werent fair or transparent. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Ultimately, if he 
didnt think this was fair or if he wanted a policy that wasnt subjected to RPI, he didnt have 
to proceed with the purchase or he couldve cancelled within the first 14 days of cover.
Dynamo contacted Mr Z in February 2023 by email to let him know about the RPI price 
adjustment. As Mr Z was dissatisfied, he opted to cancel his policy and he says he no longer 
had the car at that time in any event. Its not clear why Mr Z didnt cancel his policy in the 
summer of 2022 when he sold the car.
The policy wording says:
Your cancellation rights
You can also cancel your policy at any other time and receive a pro-rata refund of 
your premium based on the number of whole months of the original insurance period 
remaining, subject to an administration fee charged by the administrator of £34.99.In line with the policy terms, Dynamo has applied a £34.99 cancellation fee. I dont think 
Dynamo charging an administrative fee, that was brought to Mr Zs attention before the sale, 
was unfair or unreasonable and this is in line with standard industry practice.
Mr Z says he hasnt been given a pro-rata refund. Dynamo says Mr Z cancelled his policy 
with 25 months left of cover, so hes entitled to a refund of £36.26. Theyve asked us to 
explain the breakdown of the calculation to Mr Z which is the policy premium of £136.94 
divided by 48 months = £2.85, multiplied by 25 months and minus the cancellation fee. 
I havent seen any information to show that Mr Z was offered this refund directly by Dynamo 
at the point he asked to cancel his policy nor am I aware that it has been paid  Mr Z says 
he hasnt received anything. Given that Dynamo should have arranged this refund by now 
directly with its customer and couldve returned it to the card details Mr Zs premiums were 
taken from or sent a cheque, I dont think its reasonable that this remains unpaid. As such, 
in the absence of any further evidence from Dynamo to show that efforts have been made to 
pay it, I intend to award 8% simple interest per annum on this refund.
And finally, I understand Mr Z isnt happy that Dynamo didnt send him a final response letter
(FRL) within eight weeks of his complaint in accordance with the regulators rules for 
complaints handing. Dynamo says it had a system error which resulted in the complaint not 
being handled correctly. 
While its correct that Dynamo didnt send Mr Z an FRL, its not my role to fine or punish a 
business and I can see that Mr Z referred his complaint to our service after the eight weeks 
had passed. Once our service got involved, Dynamo provided us with the information to 
investigate what had happened. So I dont think Mr Z suffered any prejudice by not being 
sent an FRL.
Responses to my provisional decision
Dynamo has raised the following points regarding the pro-rata refund:
Mr Z was given the link to the cancellation page on 1 and 7 March 2023, and the pro-
rata refund was offered to him on that page when he used it. But Mr Z didnt proceed 
with the cancellation because he didnt want to pay the cancellation fee.
As such, the policy has remained active and no refund was processed because Mr Z 
hasnt actioned the cancellation himself. And Dynamo cant cancel the policy without 
his agreement or our services instruction to do so.
Dynamo also didnt want to take any action on the policy whilst it was being 
investigated in case the action was contrary to a final verdict.
Dynamo are willing to honour the cancellation from March 2023 and given that it can 
take this action immediately, they say this could mean the 8% would be calculated on 
0 days.
Mr Z didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In the absence of any further submissions regarding the RPI adjustment and the cancellation 
fee, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. So 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
In regard to the pro-rata refund, Ive thought about the comments Dynamo has made but 
these dont alter my decision to uphold this part of the complaint. And Ill explain why.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Z didnt proceed to cancel his policy on the cancellation page, this 
was because the page said the cancellation fee would be applied which he didnt want to 
pay. He raised a complaint informing Dynamo that he wanted to cancel the policy but didnt 
want the fee deducted from his refund. 
As such, Dynamo was on notice of Mr Zs instructions to cancel the policy regardless of 
whether he used the cancellation page. Im mindful that had Dynamo handled Mr Zs 
complaint correctly, it wouldve had the opportunity to action these instructions whilst 
explaining to Mr Z that he would have to pay the fee. And this may have resulted in the 
refund being made at that time. Its Dynamos inaction at this stage which has resulted in the 
missed opportunity to cancel the policy, rather than Mr Zs.  
I havent seen anything to suggest that Dynamo can only accept instructions to cancel a 
policy through the cancellation page. Rather, Dynamo has said it could take my instruction to 
cancel the policy  so I cant see any reason why they couldnt take Mr Zs instruction within 
his complaint instead of insisting he cancel the policy himself through a process that would 
deduct the cancellation fee that he was complaining about.
Furthermore, Dynamo is aware Mr Z no longer owns the car. So there is no insurable 
interest here, rendering the policy meaningless. This alone shouldve prompted Dynamo to 
take action to cancel the policy.
Its for these reasons that I remain of the opinion that Mr Z has been unfairly without his 
refund since March 2023. And Dynamo hasnt made reasonable attempts to get this to him 
during that time, leaving him without the funds hes entitled to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Dynamo Cover Limited to 
pay Mr Z his pro-rata refund of £36.26 plus 8% simple interest per annum from 1 March 
2023 to the date the refund is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman