DRN-1692958
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society refused him a new mortgage which meant 
that he had to pay an early redemption charge (ERC). Mr B wants Nationwide to refund the 
ERC.
What happened
Mr B was a longstanding customer of Nationwide. In August 2017 he did a product switch 
taking a three-year fixed rate of 1.84% and at the beginning of 2018 took a further loan at a 
rate of 1.74% fixed for two years. Both mortgage products were portable subject to 
conditions. Mr B wanted to move to a bigger house with a substantially bigger mortgage from 
£160,646 to £616,250 and to add his wife to the mortgage. The new purchase was for 
£725,000. Mr B asked a broker to arrange the finance. Mr Bs application to Nationwide was 
refused at Decision in Principle stage and Mr B got a mortgage elsewhere. Mr B redeemed 
his existing mortgage and as he was unable to port it, he had to pay an ERC of about 
£3,000. Nationwide said that the application was correctly declined according to its lending 
criteria. It said that it had given Mr Bs broker the opportunity to appeal but no such appeal 
was lodged. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that this 
wasnt a like for like transfer and that Nationwide should investigate the affordability. This 
mortgage was subject to Nationwides lending criteria at the time and that Nationwide had 
applied that fairly. Mr B disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B wanted to port his mortgage product when buying a new property but also wanted 
substantial extra borrowing when doing so. The new property would have a loan to value 
ratio of 85%. There were parts of the application that Nationwide was unhappy with. An 
email from Nationwide to Mr Bs broker says that after the application was assessed by its 
underwriter it was refused on a number of grounds. Mr Bs wifes overdraft was at its limit 
(and the mortgage was quadrupling): there was a high credit card utilisation and it said that 
the £100 per month travel costs for two people wasnt plausible with the types of car they 
were running. The email gave a number for the broker if he wished to speak to Nationwide. 
Nationwide was obviously concerned about the management of Mr B and his wifes 
accounts, and in respect of the car that it wasnt getting the full picture and were unhappy to 
proceed on that basis. But the refusal also invited a response. Mr B has responded to us and 
given us further information. But Mr B through his broker doesnt appear to have discussed 
these responses with Nationwide. Ive often seen in this type of case that a broker will 
respond to deal with the lenders objections if he believes the lender doesnt have the full 
picture and appeal if necessary.  But that ability to appeal and set out Mr Bs objections to 
Nationwides Decision in Principle wasnt taken up. 
Its unfortunate that Mr B has had to pay an ERC. But a transfer of the mortgage product 
wasnt automatic as it wasnt a like for like transfer. Nationwide went through an assessment 
of the mortgage at Decision in Principle stage and was unhappy with parts of Mr B and his 
wifes financial profile which at that juncture led to a refusal and which it brought to Mr Bs 
brokers attention. I do not consider that it was unfair for Nationwide at that stage to refuse 
the application and for that reason I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman