DRN-4416788
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, dealt with his 
chargeback dispute.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr K asked Halifax to refund him the £10 he had spent on a taxi journey using 
his debit card. He said the taxi driver had taken him to the wrong hotel. Halifax asked him for 
more information about the transaction, and his replies were not added to his file or 
acknowledged, and seem to have been overlooked. Mr K complained about that, and in 
October 2022 Halifax upheld his complaint, refunded the £10, and paid him another £40 for 
his inconvenience. That was Halifaxs final response to that complaint, and it told him so. It 
said if he was not satisfied, he should refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
After that, Mr K continued to send emails to Halifax  Halifax has identified four. He received 
no response to those either, and he complained about that too. Halifax apologised and paid 
him another £40.
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr K brought this complaint to our service. He 
said that the banks poor communication had caused him great stress and a large toll on his 
emotional health. He said he had spent over twenty hours dealing with Halifax, and he 
wanted to be compensated for his lost time.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but he did not uphold it. He thought that 
Halifax had already done more than enough to fairly resolve this complaint. He also did not 
accept that Mr K had really spent more than twenty hours dealing with it, based on the 
number of email she had seen. Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
My main reason is that Halifax has already paid Mr K 900% of what his original chargeback 
dispute was worth. I think that is generous, and that any more compensation than that would 
be disproportionate.
I will take Mr Ks word for it that he spent over twenty hours dealing with this matter, even 
though this is not reflected in the number of emails he sent, since he might have spent that 
time in other ways that are not immediately visible in the volume of correspondence. But I 
am quite sure that it is not the banks fault that he chose to spend as long as that on trying to 
get a refund of ten pounds.
I am reinforced in that view by the fact that the banks first final response letter in October 
told Mr K that it had given him its final word on the subject and that if he was not satisfied 
then he should approach a third party, namely us. It was entirely his choice to carry on 
emailing Halifax, and although it would have been better if Halifax had at least 
acknowledged the first of those emails  even just to tell him that no further correspondence 
would be entered into  I do not think it would be reasonable to tell Halifax that it has to 
compensate Mr K further for the time he spent continuing to deal with Halifax after that.
So I am satisfied that £90 is more than enough compensation, and that I need not tell Halifax 
to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023. But apart from that, this decision brings our 
involvement in this matter to an end, and we will not entertain any further representations 
about the merits of this complaint.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman