DRN-3252408
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy at the way Santander UK Plc (Santander) withdrew the overdraft facility 
on his graduate current account.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr R disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr R is unhappy his overdraft was removed for a failure to credit sufficient funds to his 
account after being told he didnt need to do so for the remaining period he was eligible for 
graduate terms. Hes said that Santander has said that it cannot confirm or deny that this 
confirmation took place. So it cant provide any evidence that he wasnt misled in the way 
that he was. However, it is difficult for a party to provide evidence to prove a negative. And, 
in any event, it is for me to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
bearing in mind everything Ive been provided, rather than say something did simply 
because Santander cant provide proof that it didnt.
In this case, what I do know is that the terms and conditions of Mr Rs graduate overdraft 
required him to make regular credits to his account. Furthermore, its also clear that Mr Rs 
account had already been passed to Santanders collections department in August 2019 as 
a result of it not receiving sufficient credits. 
This was after Mr Rs account had already been switched to a graduate account in           
July 2019. The record of Mr Rs call with Santanders collections department, in September 
2019, suggest that he was notified of the terms and conditions of his graduate account and 
that he needed to make credits every 30 days. And it isnt in dispute that Mr R did agree a 
repayment plan which managed to bring his account out of collections before the end of the 
year.  
Given the terms and conditions of the account as well as Mr Rs previous experience with 
collections a mere few months earlier, its unclear why Mr R felt the need to query whether 
there was a need to credit the account with funds. Im unsure why Mr R would have thought 
that the position might have changed. And even though I dont know what Mr R was told, its 
difficult for me to conclude he would be reassured that he no longer had to credit his 
graduate account with funds when the available evidence suggests he previously knew this 
wasnt the case.  
Equally, as our adjudicator explained even if Mr R did receive information in branch it would 
have been based on his overdrawn balance in March 2020. I know Mr R says he felt 
reasonably reassured to withdraw funds to pay for a deposit for a new place he was moving 
to in August 2020. But his account transactions show that other transactions had already 
taken him almost £1,400.00 overdrawn before these funds were transferred. So Im afraid 
that Mr Rs significant change in account balance also leaves it difficult for me to say that he 
was misled by any advice he might have been provided with in branch.
I also know that Mr R is unhappy that Santander sent some communications to him by post 
and he never received them. But while certain documents such as statement alerts can be 
sent be email, it is good practice for firms to send formal correspondence such as a formal 
demand for an overdraft to be repaid by post to the accountholders last known address. So I 
dont think that Santander acted unfairly in this regard.   
Finally, I know that Mr S is unhappy that about Santander reporting adverse information on 
his credit file. But Santander has sent us a record of what it reported about Mr Rs overdraft 
to the credit reference agencies. The information Ive seen suggests that there isnt any 
adverse over limit information recorded and all Santander reported was the amount of Mr Rs 
overdrawn balance at the respective time. 
Our adjudicators assessment did tell Mr R that we could investigate this matter further if     
Mr R had any further information showing that Santander recorded other adverse information 
at or around this time. But as Mr R hasnt provided us with anything further which contradicts 
what weve seen about what Santander reported, I cant say that Santander has done 
anything wrong in relation to this matter. If Mr R does believe that the credit reference 
agencies are reporting incorrect and inaccurate information about him, this is a matter he 
has to take up with those parties.      
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling on 
this matter and there may have been some miscommunication, I dont think Santander has 
treated him unfairly. And so Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I realise 
that this will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman