DRN-2507483
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the way QIC Europe Ltd dealt with a claim she made for
damage to their roof and garden wall under her joint home insurance policy with Mr T
What happened
In February 2020 during a storm a neighbours tree fell onto Mr and Mrs Ts kitchen roof.
There was damage to the roof , garden wall, garden furniture and toys. Mr T secured the
existing gaps where tiles were damaged and the following morning Mrs T reported the
incident to their insurer, QIC.
QIC arranged for a surveyor to attend later that day. Mrs T said the surveyor told her he
would prepare a report and would recommend a cash settlement of £1,437.06, which he
would recommend doubling once Mrs T could show 100% ownership of the damaged
garden wall.
Mrs T told QIC she was unhappy with the surveyor. She said he attended for 15 minutes,
took a few pictures and then left. She said the basis of his estimate wasnt accurate. The
quotes she received were by contractors that properly inspected the damage. The quotes to
carry out the repairs were much higher than the surveyors estimate.
As a second named storm was imminent, Mrs T called QIC for an update. But she said QIC
hadnt yet reviewed the surveyors report. It agreed for Mrs T to go ahead with the roof
repairs in order to mitigate loss and given the concerns about further damage.
Mrs T submitted the invoice to QIC for the roof repairs. This came to £1,080 including VAT.
But QIC said it would only pay £264.32 toward the roof repair costs. It said work included to
cement the verge wasnt incident related damage.
Mrs T complained to QIC. She didnt agree with the amount QIC offered for the roof repairs.
She was very unhappy with the differing figures and lack of explanation from QIC. Mrs T said
QIC was now quoting a total settlement figure of around £2,300. Mrs T wanted QIC to
properly deal with the claim, including her claim for damaged garden furniture and toys.
In March 2020 QIC replied to Mrs Ts complaint. It said it initially offered a cash settlement
sum of £1,337.06 (after deducting the £100 excess) and increased this to £2,112.98 when
Mrs T provided proof of full ownership of the wall. It said its offer was in line with the policy,
and in line with what it would cost its contactor to carry out the repairs. It maintained its
position about the roof repairs. It said its settlement sum of £264.32  included in the
£2,112.98  was fair.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us. She said she felt pressured into accepting a cash
settlement for both the roof and garden wall repairs. She said she was never offered the
option to use a preferred contractor of QIC to carry out the works instead. She said she
accepted a cash settlement for repairs to the garden wall of £1,972.33 (minus a £100
excess) because she needed to offset the costs she owed the roofer.
To resolve her complaint, Mrs T said she wants QIC to meet the costs of the roof repairs in
full, in addition to the £1,972.33 for the garden wall repairs and £250 compensation for her
time in phone calls and £500 for the inconvenience caused. In addition, Mrs T wants QIC to
meet the costs to replace the damaged items in the garden.
Our investigator thought QIC had settled the claim reasonably and in line with the policy. But 
Mrs T didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2020. I thought QIC had caused distress 
and confusion in the sums it had quoted to Mrs T. But I thought it had paid a reasonable 
amount to cover the claim for the roof and garden wall repairs. I intended to recommend QIC 
pay Mr and Mrs T compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. And I 
asked it to consider their claim for damage to their garden furniture items if they hadnt 
already done so. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision is on the same lines.
In my provisional decision I set out what both parties told me had been paid in relation to the 
claim. This was:
£432 in February 2020 for the tree removal.
£1,872.33 in March 2020 as a cash in lieu settlement for the garden wall repair.
£264.32 in September 2020 toward the costs of the roof repair.
So QIC paid a total of £2,136.65 to settle Mr and Mrs Ts claim for the roof and garden wall
damage.
Based on the Scope of Works provided by QIC and the estimates and invoices provided by 
Mrs T, I think the settlement QIC paid for the repairs to the roof and garden wall was 
reasonable and in line with the policy.
Mrs T made repeated attempts to obtain clarification of the settlement sums QIC intended to 
pay  and she wasnt given the choice to use a contractor of QICs despite her request, even 
though her policy says QIC will give her the option. I found from call recordings that QIC had 
failed to properly explain its sums to Mrs T and so she couldnt know if it had settled her 
claim fairly.
In her complaint to QIC, Mrs T mentioned her claim for garden furniture damaged by the
falling tree. I cant see that QIC addressed this issue, which it should have. And so if it hasnt
already done so, QIC needs to deal with Mrs Ts claim for these contents items under the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I think QIC caused unnecessary confusion and distress in failing to properly explain how it
reached its settlement. Its clear from the call recordings and correspondence that it quoted
different settlement sums each time Mrs T called. So I can understand Mrs Ts frustrationand upset. Without a clear explanation of the amounts quoted, Mrs T didnt have any
confidence that the sums QIC intended to pay were fair or reasonable. So I think a 
compensation award of £250 for the time, distress and inconvenience QIC caused as fair 
and in line with awards we give for cases with similar circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
Consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim for damage to the garden items if it hasnt 
already done so.
Pay Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it
Mrs T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of
8% a year.
If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman