DRN-3754913
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has only partially settled her claim for a 
purse that was left abroad at the airport. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In reaching my outcome, Ive taken into account the relevant industry guidance: the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) which says an insurer should 
deal with a claim promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked at the Personal Belongings section of the terms and conditions of Ms 
Ws policy. This provides cover for lost or stolen items up to a limit of £1500. UKI has 
partly settled Ms Ws claim for money that was missing from her purse to the sum of 
160 euros. The purse itself, the remaining money of 140 euros and the other items 
are with the airport police and are not lost or stolen. Based on this section, UKI has 
settled the claim as per the terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy and Im not 
persuaded it has treated Ms W unfairly or unreasonably. 
The purse was at the airport and handed in and I can see there is an email exchange 
between Ms W and the police. It appears the purse is still in their possession and 
waiting to be collected. I understand too that only 140 euros of the 300 euros that 
were in the purse remain and I can see UKI has settled the claim for the amount of 
£87.05 (with the excess deducted) that was lost or stolen, which in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and therefore seems reasonable to me. 
Ms W says she would like UKI to pay for a courier to collect her purse from the 
country as part of the claim. I dont think this is reasonable because that isnt a cost 
thats covered under her policy terms and conditions and isnt UKIs responsibility.
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to 
pay for the cost of the courier in the circumstances of this case. Its not an event 
thats covered under the policy and Im not persuaded UKI has treated Ms W unfairly. 
It follows that I dont require UKI to do anything further.
For these reasons, although I understand Ms Ws frustration, I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman