DRN-3620548
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the way that Hoist Finance UK Limited has dealt with her financial 
problems and that it has sent correspondence about her borrowing to the wrong address.
What happened
Mrs F explains that she has a long-standing debt thats still over £22,000 arising from her 
business borrowing with another bank. This was sold on to a business that became Hoist. 
She says she asked it to consider her financial and health issues and write off the debt. She 
says that it wouldnt do so and based its assessment on incorrect information about her 
income. And that it wrote to her using a postal address shed said was no longer correct 
causing her embarrassment and distress.
Hoist said that it only received new address details from Mrs F in November 2021. And in a 
call of June 2021 had told her that although Mrs F had requested contact by email it couldnt 
guarantee it wouldnt write to her. The email address shed asked it to use had a return 
message stating that emails wouldnt be read. The information it had received about her 
income from an external source had been incorrect. But Hoist said that it had taken the 
correct information about her income and expenditure into account. And that based on her 
circumstances it wouldnt be writing off the debt. It said that an offer to pay her £75 for 
compensation for a previous complaint remained open to her.
Our investigator set out separately that this earlier complaint hadnt been referred to this 
service in time and so we couldnt look into it and this wasnt challenged by Mrs F. But in 
relation to this further and current complaint he recommended that Hoist pay Mrs F £75 and 
it agreed to do so. He said that hed listened to the call Mrs F had with Hoist in June 2021 
when shed explained she was leaving her current address and didnt have an alternative to 
provide. Shes asked to be contacted by email. But the person she spoke to said that post 
may still come to that old address. He didnt think that this was good enough and there was 
a possibility that as here post could go to the old address. However, there was a message 
on the email account that messages werent being read. And Mrs F didnt notify her new 
details until November 2021 when she provided a post office box. He said that she could 
have done this earlier and arranged for mail to be forwarded.
Our investigator said that Hoist had recognised what Mrs F had said about the income figure 
from an external source. And that it had considered Mrs Fs financial position and what shed 
said and provided about her health issues and decided not to write the debt off. It had 
referred to her being in employment and that her health issues werent sufficient to take that 
step now. And that she had been making payments to the account before. He said that Hoist 
wasnt under an obligation to write the debt off. And Mrs F could still refer her points about a 
data protection breach to the Information Commissioners Office.
Mrs F didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that two letters had 
gone to the old address. And that these referred to her health, her financial issues and her 
request to write off a quoted amount of borrowing. Mrs F said that she was embarrassed that 
people in the area where she used to live would know her personal details. So, she wouldnt 
go there anymore and see her friends. Other creditors have provided assistance to her and 
she couldnt see why Hoist wouldnt. She thought that the impact on her life of what 
happened was worth more than £75.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial and health issues that Mrs F describes. I need to 
consider how Hoist has responded to the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also listened to the call Mrs F had with Hoist in June 2021 and a further one on 20 
October 2021.
The points about that call in June 2021 have been correctly summarised above. I note that 
Hoist says it emailed Mrs F on 20 July 2021. It appears from the later call in October 2021 
that she had received that email. But she agrees that shed put a return message to her 
account saying that the email address was no longer in use and messages wouldnt be read. 
This was based on what she says her doctor suggested. When that return message was 
received Hoist stopped sending emails. I also understand from the call of October 2021 that 
it didnt have a daytime number for Mrs F and that she had declined to provide one again. 
So, I think that may explain why Hoist concluded that the only viable way it had to contact 
her was by post about her complaint and request.
A final response to that previous complaint dated 15 September 2021 was posted to the old 
address. And a further bespoke letter confirming Hoist had her medical documents and that 
it wanted an updated financial statement was sent on 13 October 2021. In correspondence 
sent to Hoist dated 19 November 2021 Mrs F states that this letter was forwarded on to me. 
And the receipt of that letter also seemed to be behind her call to Hoist of 20 October 2021. 
On that date she confirmed her email and Hoist emailed her to state that it would use the 
email address unless she objected. 
Mrs F provided a post office box for correspondence too on 19 November 2021 and she 
confirmed the position again on 29 January 2022 stating again that I do not have a 
permanent address and providing a forwarding address.
I fully understand what Mrs F says about the risk of the information in letters sent to her 
being seen by third parties. And her embarrassment about it. Im not clear that this did 
actually happen as for example on 16 July 2022 Mrs F emailed this service and referred to 
the impact of what happened stating I cant bring myself to go anywhere near the area in 
case I see someone I know in case they know my business. 
Ive looked at how Hoist has considered her request to write off the debt. Id expect it to 
obtain and consider all relevant information from Mrs F and for example credit reference 
agencies. Its taken account of what Mrs F said about the income figure it had. And I can 
also see that her case has been managed by a specialist team so it explains that her 
medical and personal position can be taken into account. The last payment she made was in 
October 2020 and her account has been on hold since while her request was assessed and 
now while this complaint is considered. No interest or charges have been applied by Hoist. I 
dont have a basis to say that Hoist should take any particular action in dealing with the 
borrowing and Im satisfied that its considered her request appropriately when it made its 
own decision.
I agree with our investigators view about compensation. I know Mrs F wants a higher figure. 
But I take into account my assessment above of what happened, and that Hoist didnt have a forwarding address or any other it believed effective means to contact her and to deal with 
her request for assistance with her financial difficulties. So, I will award compensation of £75 
for this complaint. I cant require it to pay her the other £75 for the previous complaint as Im 
not considering it. So, Mrs F would need to confirm if she wants that paid as well to Hoist 
and possibly with the assistance of our investigator.
Looking forward Id expect Hoist to dealt with Mrs F in a positive manner and to consider any 
proposals she makes regarding repayment in a fair way and based on all current 
information. I understand from what Mrs F says that shes previously accessed free 
independent debt advice and she may wish to do so again.
I can appreciate she will be disappointed by my decision about compensation given what 
shes said.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Hoist Finance UK Limited to pay  
Mrs F £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman