DRN-3090041
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as U, complain that they didnt receive the cash incentive they 
expected when they switched their account from National Westminster Bank Plc to another 
bank. 
Mr H, a director of U, brings the complaint on Us behalf.
What happened
Mr H is the owner and director of several companies who banked with NatWest. In late 2020, 
Mr H received some communications from NatWest about a cash incentive that was 
available to certain eligible customers for moving their accounts to another bank.
In November 2020, Mr H called NatWest to ask for more information about the scheme. 
Following this call, he entered the details of one of his companies into the Business Banking 
Switch (BBS) website and received offers from three different banks.
In February 2021, Us account with NatWest was closed and the account successfully 
switched to another bank. No cash incentive was paid into Us new account despite U 
expecting to receive £4,200. Therefore, Mr H complained to NatWest.
NatWest explained the offer of £4,200 was only applicable to the account whose details Mr 
H had entered into the BBS website. They said not all business accounts were eligible to 
receive a cash incentive and for those that were, the amount payable was linked to the 
turnover of that specific business. They said U was not eligible to take part in the scheme, so 
no payment was due to it.
Mr H was unhappy with this explanation, so he brought the complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into the matter and said he didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. He said the scheme rules were applied fairly and U were never entitled to receive an 
incentive payment.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me to 
decide. Mr H said our investigator had missed the crux of the complaint which is that 
NatWest had provided misleading information about the switching scheme. He said that U 
met the turnover criteria for the scheme so a cash incentive should have been paid to them. 
He also said all communications about the switching scheme were non-company specific.
Mr H wants NatWest to pay the full incentive amount to U and recognise the time Mr H and 
his team have spent on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained why below.
Mr H called NatWest in November 2020. At the beginning of the call he provides the details 
for another of his companies which Ill refer to as Z. He enquires about the incentivised 
switching scheme for which he has been receiving marketing communications from 
NatWest. 
The staff member from NatWest carefully explains the details of the scheme, why it exists 
and how the scheme works. She tells Mr H that if he enters the account details into the BBS 
website, the offers available from the other banks will be displayed and if hes interested in 
any of the offers he can enter his details and a consent code will be sent to him. 
During the call, Mr H mentions that he has two other business accounts with NatWest, other 
than Z who the call is about. He doesnt ask any questions about these accounts including 
whether they would be eligible for the scheme and he moves quickly on to another matter 
about the direct debit scheme he has in place on Zs account.
Having listened to this call, I am satisfied that all information provided by NatWest was 
specific to Z.  
Following this call, Mr H enters the account details for Z into the BBS website. From the 
evidence available to me, I confirm that the account details entered were for Z however the 
email address he used was connected to U. Mr H received an email to the email account 
connected to U with offers from three other banks. Im satisfied that these offers were 
specific to Zs account turnover. The email address requested by NatWest was for 
communication purposes only so I cant say NatWest did anything wrong here. I would not 
expect their system to be able to identify that the email address Mr H provided was linked to 
another of his companies.
The information provided up to this point was only relevant to Zs account, however when Mr 
H chose the bank he wanted to switch Us account to, he followed the link to his preferred 
bank through the apply here button in the email intended for Z. At that point, he was entering 
information into another banks system. This system is not linked to NatWests, so the new 
bank processed the switch based on the information Mr H then entered into their system. 
This information was for Us account. 
I understand that a duplicate application was made for to switch U s account directly through 
the third-party bank and Mr H has said this information shows that there was more than one 
way to apply for the scheme. However, the incentivised switch scheme was facilitated 
through the same channels that are used whenever someone wishes to switch an account to 
another bank. This is called the Current Account Switch Service. 
The system was able to identify accounts that qualified for the cash incentive and the 
payment was made accordingly once the switch was completed. So although Mr H is correct 
in stating that there was more than one way to apply, there was no error made here by 
NatWest. The account wasnt eligible for the incentive but that didnt mean that a switch 
could not be processed.  
Mr H says that Us account met the turnover criteria for this scheme, so they should have 
received the cash incentive. However, the turnover criteria was only used to calculate the 
amount of the cash incentive that would be paid to eligible participants of the scheme. It was 
not used to decide who was eligible to partake in this specific switching scheme. Eligibility was based on a cross section of NatWest customers in England and Wales and 
RBS customers in Scotland. The companies chosen were diverse in size, sector and 
geographic location, so turnover was not an indication that you were eligible to partake in the 
scheme. A communication from NatWest or RBS was sent directly to the businesses that 
were eligible. No invitation was ever provided directly to U and any correspondence received 
by NatWest to an email address linked to Us account only occurred as a result of Mr H 
providing that email address for communication purposes when he enquired about Zs 
account. 
I appreciate Mr H says that this was not clear to him, but I dont agree that any of the 
information NatWest had provided was misleading. All communication was for information 
purposes up to the point when the switch commenced and none of it was directed to U. The 
staff member Mr H spoke to in NatWest explained how to check for available offers and the 
details he entered up to that point were all for Zs account. 
No marketing material was ever sent to U by NatWest to say it was eligible for the cash 
incentive. Any information that was received by Mr Hs email account linked to U was only 
because that was the email address he provided when he entered the details for Z into the 
BBS website. Had Mr H entered the account details for U instead of Z into the BBS website 
he wouldve received a notification to say the account was ineligible for the incentivised 
switching scheme. As a result, I dont think it would be fair to say that NatWest have misled 
U about being entitled to receive a cash incentive for switching to another bank.
The BBS website provided information on eligibility and incentive payments available once 
the information for the correct account was input. However, Mr H never entered Us details 
into that system so he never asked NatWest if the account was eligible or checked the BBS 
website to see how much the incentive would be. Furthermore, there was a dedicated 
switching team available in NatWest to answer any further queries Mr H may have had 
before he proceeded to switch Us account.  
I understand Mr H thinks the marketing literature was misleading, but those leaflets were for 
information only and did not constitute an offer from any bank. The marketing literature 
stated that all applications were subject to status and eligibility. They also stated that all 
amounts shown were indicative only. As a result, I cant say that the information provided by 
NatWest in the marketing material for the scheme was misleading.
Furthermore, Mr H was not required to switch any of his accounts, this was his decision and 
if he was unsure about the process he couldve contacted NatWest for further clarification 
before making any irreversible decisions.  
So to conclude, I have not seen anything to indicate that NatWest have treated U unfairly or 
unreasonably here. Im satisfied that U was never eligible to receive a cash incentive for 
switching to another bank as part of this scheme.
As a result, I wont be asking NatWest to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
U, to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Tara RichardsonOmbudsman