DRN-4287579
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin), didnt 
refund her after she cancelled her flights.
What happened
Miss C used her Virgin credit card to pay £1,506.69 for flights and transfers. She later 
decided to cancel these, but the merchant didnt refund her. So, she raised a claim with 
Virgin, for a chargeback. As she didnt hear back, she brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, and recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. This was because the merchant had told Miss C it wouldnt be 
able to provide a refund until it had been accepted and processed by the airline. The sum of 
£47.33 was refunded to Miss C, which was for a transfer. Miss C then queried when shed 
receive the remaining funds, and the merchant said it would be processed when it had been 
received from the airline. Our investigator felt that this suggested that a refund was being 
progressed. Accordingly, under the Mastercard scheme rules for chargebacks, she thought 
the dispute condition Credit not processed wouldve been appropriate.
Although our investigator noted that refunds from the merchant are subject to the airlines 
terms and conditions, the merchant had never referred to the term:
If the airline or the customer cancels a new flight, as modified by date and/or time, the cost 
of the service shall not be refunded.
As it hadnt done so, she thought there wouldve been a likely chance of a successful 
chargeback. As Virgin hadnt attempted one, she thought it had behaved unfairly, so should 
provide Miss C with the remainder of the refund itself.
Virgin disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me.
I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint, so issued a provisional decision explaining why. I 
said it was clear to me that the merchant will not process a refund until its received from the 
airline. Here, it had not received a refund from the airline. I thought it was highly unlikely to 
now, given that two years have passed, and given that the airlines terms and conditions 
dont allow for a refund in the circumstances of this case.
I also looked at whether the merchant had agreed to provide the refund, and I didnt agree 
that it had. I understood that Miss Cs interactions with it would have given her hope shed 
receive a refund, but I didnt think theres enough to say it had definitely been agreed. It was 
always clear the merchant would require the funds to be received from the airline first.
The chargeback scheme is voluntary. That said, wed expect a business to attempt one if 
there were a reasonable chance of success. For the reasons given above, I didnt think there 
was a reasonable chance of a chargeback being successful.
I could see that Virgin had offered Miss C £75 for the inconvenience caused. I agreed this 
was fair, given its initial lack of response.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made further submissions, I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
made in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that the £75 compensation Clydesdale 
Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has offered is fair. I leave it to Miss C to decide whether 
to accept it, if she hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman