DRN-4243484
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice Grove Pension Solutions Limited gave to him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr B to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Bs
What happened
Mr B first contacted Grove in February 2015. At the time he said he was still working for his 
employer. He would be finishing work that year and wanted to consider using his pension 
funds to invest in the family business.
After Mr B had finished working for his employer, in May 2015, the administrators of his 
former employer's DB scheme sent Grove details of Mr Bs entitlements from the scheme. In 
June 2015 Grove completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances 
and objectives. It also obtained a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). 
On 2 July 2015 Grove sent Mr B its suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendation. It also appended a report of Mr Bs personal and financial details, showing 
the results from its fact find. 
Amongst other things Grove said Mr B was 56. His wife, Mrs B, was 54. She ran a business 
which had been in Mr Bs family for around 25 years. It had previously been run by his 
parents and still employed several other family members. 
Grove set out Mr Bs entitlement from the DB scheme both at its normal retirement age of 65 
and if he took the benefits from it straightaway. If he took his DB benefits immediately he 
could have tax free cash (TFC) of £90,845 and a yearly pension of £13,625. The DB 
pension had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of almost £724,000. If he transferred 
the CETV to a personal pension he could take TFC of almost £181,000 without taking an 
immediate regular income and leave the remainder invested until his normal retirement age 
of 65. 
 
The reports said Mr B had contacted Grove because he wanted to use the TFC from his 
pension to help his family business expand. The plan was to buy a similar business in 
another area. He had already identified the business he wanted to buy for a price of 
£260,000. He and his wife had savings of between £90,000 and £100,000 which they could 
put towards the purchase, Mr B could then use his TFC to make up any shortfall. He could 
then draw an income from the business. The long term plan was to merge the new business 
with and expand the existing family business. 
Grove recorded that it discussed other methods of raising money for the business purchase 
but Mr B discounted those. 
Mr B said that transferring was an opportunity he didnt want to lose and he was 100% 
certain that they wanted to expand the family business and that releasing funds from his 
pension was the best way to do it. Grove told him that doing so would reduce his retirement 
income. 
Mr B said his plan was to be debt free by retirement age. He and his wife then planned to 
then live in a property they owned abroad and rent out their UK house. They already owned 
a property abroad but intended to sell it and acquire a larger one.
Grove pointed out that his DB pension was guaranteed and by transferring he was putting 
those funds at risk. Mr B said he understood that but his priority was the business 
expansion. He said it was only a matter of when he did that. He said he had already made 
up his mind to do so. He added that he was very confident that by doing so he could provide 
a steady income for himself and his wife as well as the ongoing employment of other family 
members including his adult children. 
In light of this, Grove recommended that Mr B should transfer his funds into a named 
personal pension and use the TFC to fund the new business purchase. It said it was 
important that Mr B didnt draw further income from the personal pension. Three days later, 
Mr B signed a statement to say hed read and understood Groves suitability report and 
wanted to proceed with the transfer. 
In 2016 Mr B withdrew all the remaining funds from the personal pension
.
In 2022 Mr B complained to Grove that its advice to transfer wasnt suitable for him. 
Amongst other things he said hed wanted funds to buy a property abroad and had other 
means of raising that cash.
After we asked Grove for its file it raised questions about whether or not we had jurisdiction 
to consider the case. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He explained why 
he felt we had the jurisdiction to consider the matter. He then went on to consider the merits 
of Mr Bs complaint. In short he felt that Mr B was determined to go ahead with the transfer 
so he would have done that regardless of the suitability of Groves advice.
Grove didnt make any substantive comment on our Investigators complaint assessment. 
Mr B didnt agree with it; so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs raised a number of points. But, in this decision I dont intend 
to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our Investigators assessment of it. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Mr Bs objectives and circumstances 
Mr Bs DB scheme didnt allow him to transfer from it while he was still working for his 
employer. However, before hed ceased working for that employer hed contacted Grove, in 
February 2015, and told it that he was looking to release TFC from his pension in order to 
invest in a business. 
Mr B spoke with Grove in June 2015 when it completed a fact-find. At that time, Mr B was 
clear that he wanted to release TFC in order to invest in his wifes business. That was over 
four months since he had initially contacted Grove but its evident that his objectives hadn't 
changed during that time. His prime motivation remained the expansion of the family 
business.
Its also notable that, before speaking with him, Grove had sent him information about DB 
schemes that said, amongst other things, that DB schemes are considered the best sort of 
pension available and Mr B should only consider transferring as a matter of last resort. But, 
despite that warning its evident Mr B was clear from the outset that he wanted to transfer. 
He said he was 100% certain he wanted to expand the business and that transferring his 
pension was the best way to do so.
Grove ran through alternative options for Mr B including his wifes business taking on the 
finance itself in order to expand. Mr B had already considered this. He said that while this 
was an option, the cost of borrowing for the business would be prohibitively high and would 
significantly reduce the opportunity from profiting from the expansion. He had therefore 
dismissed this. He also said that he was no longer earning a salary and, at that time, his wife 
wasnt drawing an income from the business, as they were steering any profit towards the 
expansion. So, as they didn't have an income they couldn't take on any further personal 
borrowing. He also said the savings they did have would be used to fund the business 
expansion. He dismissed any other alternative suggestion of raising the funds. It therefore 
appears that from Mr Bs perspective, at that time, his only viable route to raising the money 
was by transferring his DB funds to a personal pension and using his TFC.
That said, I do think Grove could have done more to challenge Mr Bs objectives in light of 
what he was giving up. And, in spite of Mr Bs clear goal of releasing TFC, on balance I think 
Grove should not have recommended that Mr B transfer out of his DB scheme. Instead it 
should have urged him to use one of the other methods to fund his wifes business 
expansion or encouraged him to put it on hold until he could find another fundraising 
solution. But, while I think thats something Grove should have done, I dont think it would 
have made a difference to the outcome here. Thats because the contemporaneous 
evidence is clear that Mr B had been planning the business expansion for some time. He 
was investing into a business that had been in his family for a quarter of a century. And he 
said that in doing so he believed it would improve his own future and that of his relatives, 
including his adult children, who worked there.
Further, I've noted that Grove did stress to Mr B that transferring was putting his pension 
funds at risk. It also said he could be worse off in retirement as a result. And I think Mr B was 
aware of the benefits he would be giving up by transferring. But I think hed already decided 
that the transfer would provide a route to funding a business expansion hed been planning 
for some time. He also believed that by taking that route, he would be laying the foundation 
for a better future for both himself, his family business and the family members employed by 
that business. So, in those circumstances, I think he would have gone ahead with the 
transfer regardless of whether or not Grove recommended it. I also think its worth pointing out that less than a year after Grove advised Mr B to leave the 
remainder of his funds invested until his retirement Mr B chose to draw down the entirety of 
his remaining fund. That drawdown would have been subject to a deduction of 40% tax. That 
was plainly against Groves advice and I think demonstrates that Mr B was capable of 
making his own mind up about the actions he wished to take regardless of the advice Grove 
gave to him. 
In response to our Investigators assessment of the complaint Mr Bs said the business 
expansion plans were not concrete and that the purchase of another business fell through. 
But I don't think the fact that the purchase fell through means that the business expansion 
wasnt a concrete plan at the time. And if the business purchase hadn't fallen through it 
seems likely he would have continued with the plans. All of the contemporary evidence on 
file is that Mr B was motivated to transfer his DB funds to a personal pension in order to 
release TFC to solve a funding issue for his wifes business. 
Mr Bs said that instead of investing in the business he bought a holiday home abroad. I've 
noted that Mr B did refer to his desire to buy a bigger holiday home when he spoke with 
Grove. But this wasnt given as an objective for transferring within its suitability report. So I 
don't think the fact that Mr B apparently altered his plans following a change in 
circumstances means that Grove incorrectly recorded Mr Bs motivation for seeking the 
transfer when he did. And it seems to me that Mr B used the funds in that way because the 
business plan fell through, rather than because it was always his intention to do so.
It follows that, while I think Grove should have recommended against the transfer, as I've 
said above, I think Mr B would have gone ahead with the transfer regardless of anything 
Grove said. And I think he understood that his actions would likely leave him worse off in 
retirement
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman