DRN-3792953
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited delayed the 
transfer of the late Mrs Ss stocks and shares ISA investments and the payment of dividend 
payments. 
In addition, Mr S complains that he cannot view all the investments he holds with HBOS 
online.
In order to put matters right Mr S said he wanted to:
- receive all dividend payments and interest 
- have online access to all accounts so that Mr S has the benefit of control over the funds 
- HBOS to provide written confirmation of the value of the account and provide online access 
so this balance can be checked now and in the future 
- receive compensation for time and costs incurred to secure the transfer of assets 
And receive an apology from HBOS for the worry and upset this matter has caused him.
What happened
In August 2020 HBOS was notified that Mrs S had passed away. 
On 29 October 2021, Mr S was informed that Mrs Ss ISA investments had been transferred 
to him. 
Mr S complained to HBOS that it hadnt paid him the dividend income from the late Mrs Ss 
ISA investments promptly. He also complained that he couldnt view the holdings that had 
been transferred to him online, despite being able to view his other holdings online.
HBOS apologised for the problems Mr S had experienced. It paid the outstanding dividend 
income by bank transfer and then sent the next dividend payment that was due in respect of 
the investments that had been held by the late Mrs S by cheque. It also explained that it 
wouldnt be possible for Mr S to view newer share classes online and it said, There are also 
no plans to change this in the near future. It paid Mr S a total of £500 for the worry and 
inconvenience he had experienced. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HBOSs response and referred the complaint to this service.
Having carefully considered all that had been said and provided our investigator said she 
didnt think she could require HBOS to do more than it had already done to put matters right. 
She explained that this service couldnt order HBOS to change its processes or make 
changes to its online offering to allow Mr S to view all the holdings in his ISA wrapper and 
central investment fund.
HBOS Investment Fund Managers LimitedHBOS Investment Fund Managers LimitedShe also noted that since Mr S had referred his complaint to this service, he had raised 
further concerns regarding the dividend payments he was receiving for the investments that 
had previously been held by the late Mrs S in her ISA. It appears that despite having 
committed to transfer these payments to Mr Ss account HBOS had continue to make these 
payments by cheque. Our investigator explained that if this continued to be an issue Mr S 
would need to raise this matter with HBOS and allow it the opportunity to address his 
complaint about this issue before this service could consider it.
Mr S was not satisfied with our investigators view. He said he felt HBOS had acted 
incorrectly and had no intention of righting the problems that still exist. 
In particular, he said he was unhappy with the delay in paying the dividends due in respect 
of the late Mrs Ss ISA holdings. Mr S said:
My view is that these frozen dividends are as much my property as the contents of my late 
wifes ISA and as such should be treated the same i.e. be transferred according to my 
instructions, and not according to the dictates of HBOS.
He also explained that he was very dissatisfied that HBOS was unable to arrange for him to 
have online access to the value of my account. Mr S said he had received an email from 
HBOS dated 21 April 2022, that said HBOS had taken steps to enable me to view, online, 
the value of my investments. However, I can only access the value of my ISA.
Mr S also referred to what he called the Bankers Bible and provided an extract from the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook (BCOB). Mr S said 
he felt HBOS was in breach of the rules set out in the extract he had provided.
Mr S also reiterated his concern that despite having said it would arrange for further dividend 
payments to be made directly to his bank account, HBOS had sent another cheque for the 
dividends received in respect of his late wifes ISA holdings. Mr S said he found this at 
best very puzzling, yet downright inconvenient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to express my sincere condolences to Mr S for his loss. 
I am sympathetic to the points Mr S has made and I do appreciate why he feels the service 
he has received from HBOS has been unsatisfactory.
Our investigator set out a timeline of the actions HBOS and the solicitor acting for Mrs Ss 
estate took once it had been notified that Mrs S had died. As there does not appear to be 
any dispute about this timeline I have not reproduced it here. 
From the timeline it is clear there were delays. I can see that it took around 15 months for 
the late Mrs Ss ISA holdings to be transferred to Mr S. However, as our investigator set out, 
it appears that HBOS was only responsible for a short delay when, on two separate 
instances it failed to enclose a document in its correspondence to the solicitor acting for Mrs 
Ss estate. 
It appears that HBOS had to chase the solicitor on a number of occasions, and the delay in 
responding to HBOS was the main cause of the delay in transferring Mrs Ss ISA holdings to 
Mr S. I am also mindful that there appears to have been some confusion on the part of the solicitor regarding the amount that would be transferred, however I cant reasonably hold 
HBOS responsible for this confusion regarding the  additional permitted subscription (APS)  
amount and the actual value of the holdings being transferred to Mr S. 
As Mr S has not raised any new points regarding the delay in transferring the late Mrs Ss 
ISA holdings, I have not considered this aspect of his complaint any further.
Delay in paying dividends
Mr S says he was unhappy with the delay in paying the dividends that were due in respect of 
the late Mrs Ss ISA holdings. Mr S said:
My view is that these frozen dividends are as much my property as the contents of my late 
wife`s ISA and as such should be treated the same i.e. be transferred according to my 
instructions, and not according to the dictates of HBOS.
I appreciate Mr Ss position but, as he may be aware, it is possible for the APS to be 
inherited by a spouse or civil partner and the actual investments held in an ISA to be left to 
someone else. As this is the case, I dont think HBOS acted incorrectly, or unfairly when it 
delayed paying the dividends due in respect of the late Mrs Ss ISA holdings until after the 
holdings had been transferred to Mr S. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that the 90 day timescale HBOS gave for the payment of the 
dividends due to him after the late Mrs Ss ISA holdings had been transferred to him was 
unreasonable. HBOS explained to Mr S that in line with its standard bereaved process 
any withheld distributions from the deceased account would usually be paid via cheque 
within 90 working days (from the date the assets were transferred).
I note that the payment was made by bank transfer to Mr S on 21 January 2022, less than 
three months after the late Mrs Ss ISA holdings had been transferred to him. I also note that 
HBOS paid Mr S £300 in January 2022, for the trouble and upset having to chase up 
payment of the dividends had caused (and for the inconvenience Mr S had suffered as a 
result of being unable to view all his holdings with HBOS online). I cant reasonably say that 
HBOS should do more to resolve this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
As our investigator explained, this service does not have the power to order HBOS to 
change its internal processes or service standards. We are an informal dispute resolution 
service. If Mr S wishes to pursue his concern about the internal service standards HBOS 
applies, he may wish to raise this with the industry regulator, the FCA. The FCA has the 
power to order a business to change its processes if it determines they are unfair or are in 
breach of a regulatory requirement. It can also take disciplinary action against a business if it 
thinks it has acted incorrectly.
online access 
Mr S has explained that he is very dissatisfied that HBOS has been unable to arrange for 
him to have online access to the value of my account. Mr S has referred to an email from 
HBOS dated 21 April 2022, that said HBOS had taken steps to enable me to view, online, 
the value of my investments. However, I can only access the value of my ISA.
I have carefully reviewed the letter Mr S has referred to. It explained:
At present you are only be able to view any old share classes that you hold online. 
Regrettably, you are unable to view any of the newer share classes on an individual level. 
There are also no plans to change this in the near future. Nonetheless, through root cause 
analysis your concerns have been noted and your request for change may be considered at a later date. However, I appreciate this isnt the outcome you were hoping for and I am sorry 
we are unable to provide the service you require.
I have taken steps which will now enable you to view the total valuation of your 
investment online, however as above this will not provide an individual breakdown.
(bold is my emphasis)
However, as our investigator explained, HBOS have since confirmed to this service that 
online access isnt available for all investments held by its customers. I understand that this 
is a live issue for HBOS and Mr S is not the only customer affected. HBOS was unable to 
provide an indication of when this issue will be resolved. 
I appreciate that this is very frustrating for Mr S, particularly as he expected to be able to 
view his total valuation online, even if he couldnt view the value of all the individual 
holdings. However, I cant order HBOS to provide online valuations when it is currently 
unable to do so. 
I note our investigator said HBOS would be able to provide Mr S with up-to-date valuations if 
he telephoned it. If this is not acceptable to Mr S  and I do understand why he would find 
online access more convenient  he might wish to consider moving his ISA to an investment 
platform that offers full online access. 
I note that in his response to this service Mr S referred to what he called the Bankers Bible 
and provided an extract from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (BCOB). Mr S said he felt HBOS was in breach of the rules set out in the extract 
he had provided. The rules Mr S has referred to do not apply to stocks and shares ISAs as 
they are investment products, not banking products. I am not aware of any regulatory 
requirement that a business must provide online access to valuations for stocks and shares 
ISAs, although I accept that most ISA providers do provide online access.
dividend payments by cheque
In his response to our investigator Mr S reiterated his concern that despite having said it 
would arrange for further dividend payments to be made directly to his bank account, HBOS 
had sent another cheque for the dividends received in respect of his late wifes ISA holdings. 
As our investigator explained, this service can only look into issues that have previously 
been raised with HBOS. She did try to resolve this issue with HBOS on Mr Ss behalf, but it 
said it felt this was a new issue and suggested that Mr S should contact it regarding the 
payment of dividends in relation to the investments that had been transferred to Mr S from 
the late Mrs Ss ISA if he had any concerns about the dividends or the method of payment.
Having considered all that has been said and provided about this complaint, it is not in 
dispute that HBOS has not been able to provide Mr S with the service he requires. However, 
I do not have the power to order HBOS to change its internal processes or provide online 
access for Mr S to view the value of all his investment holdings. If Mr S wishes to pursue 
these issues he may wish to contact the industry regulator the FCA.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I cannot require HBOS Investment 
Fund Managers Limited to do more than it has already done to resolve this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman