DRN-2207455
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover a 
store card in 2001. Mrs C says that AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
AXA has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint. So, I will refer to AXA in my 
decision.
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint  but didnt think that the policy had been mis-sold
to Mrs C, so didnt uphold it.
Mrs C disagreed with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having looked at all the information available to me, Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt
mis-sold to Mrs C. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs C, so Ill explain the reasons why.
AXA had to make Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mrs C applied for the
PPI, but she took the policy out over the telephone after receiving the card so I think she 
would have known the PPI was optional, and she chose to have it.
Mrs C has told us AXA recommended the policy to her, AXA has told us it didnt recommend 
the policy. If AXA did recommend the policy to Mrs C it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her. Mrs C has told us she was entitled to good sick pay when she took the policy, she 
would also have received redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Cs sick pay and for longer than she would have received full pay. It would also have 
paid out in circumstances other than redundancy. So, I think Mrs C had a need for the cover, 
and it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, and she has told us making the payments for the policy put additional strain on her 
finances. But I think she chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. So, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means AXA doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman