DRN-3579605
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation
to a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme that he held with his former
employer. Portal processed the transfer of Mr S DB scheme benefits to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) an insistent client basis. Mr S says Portal advised him to 
purchase various shares, which now have no value despite Portal saying they were low risk 
and he wouldnt lose any capital.
What happened
Mr S approached Portal around April 2012 to discuss his pension and retirement needs.
On 10 April 2012 Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr S 
circumstances and objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, 
which it deemed to be moderately cautious. On the same day Portal sent Mr S a letter 
saying that it recommended he didnt transfer his DB pension scheme benefits because the 
growth rate required to match his guaranteed benefits was too high at 26.8% and because 
hed be giving up a guaranteed pension of just under £8,000 a year from age 60. But Portal 
said it could still help Mr CS if he wanted to go ahead and it asked him to complete and 
return the enclosed insistent client form.
Portal says that Mr S returned the insistent client form although it no longer has a copy it can 
provide. Based on my understanding, this form required Mr S to acknowledge that his new 
pension was unlikely to achieve the required growth rate and that he was giving up 
guaranteed benefits. 
On 16 April 2012 Portal sent Mr S a suitability report setting out its advice. The report 
outlined Mr S circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he was 56 years old, 
married, owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage or around £60,000, he was 
unemployed and in receipt of jobseekers allowance and he had a credit card balance or 
around £1,000.
The report went on to set out the details of Mr S existing DB pension scheme. It also said 
the critical yield required to match Mr S existing scheme benefits was 26.8%.
The report said that Mr S objective was to access his maximum tax-free cash entitlement to 
make some home improvements and to create an emergency fund.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended
that Mr S shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the benefits he would
be giving up  but it said that Mr S had decided to disregard the advice and that it would be
treating him as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mr S transfer his pension to
enable him to meet his objective and it set out which pension provider it recommended and 
how his money should be invested.
Mr S signed the relevant application forms and the transfer went ahead. Mr S received his 
tax-free cash payment and the proceeds were in invested in four Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes (UCIS) which Portal deemed Mr S attitude to risk.
In 2021 Mr S complained to Portal about the advice he received.
Portal considered the complaint and issued its final response to Mr S in July 2021. In 
summary it said that it hadnt investigated the merits or substance of Mr S complaint 
because it believed hed complained too late. It said Mr S had received annual review 
statements since 2013 which it said shouldve prompted him to make a complaint more than 
three years before he did  so hes out of time.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and they 
concluded that his complaint hadnt been brought too late  it was one we could consider. 
They said they werent persuaded the annual review statements Portal referred to would 
have reasonably triggered Mr S into believing he had cause for complaint.
Because Portal disagreed and ombudsman considered the matter and they decided the 
complaint was not out of time for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
An investigator then considered the merits of the complaint and they concluded that Mr S 
complaint should be upheld. In summary they said that Portal hadnt acted fairly towards Mr 
S and they didnt think he was a true insistent client. They said Portals advice not to transfer 
was undermined because it told him how to go ahead regardless in the same letter. They 
said Mr S was an inexperienced investor, so it should have been on notice that it had to be 
careful if it was to conduct matters on an insistent client basis. They noted that Portal hadnt 
provided us with a signed copy of Mr S insistent client form  but the example showed it was 
a template so they werent persuaded Mr S would have fully understood the risks involved in 
going ahead against advice. Overall they said because Mr S didnt have an important reason 
to transfer  or that his reasons couldnt have been met another way  they thought it 
unlikely Mr S would have gone ahead if things had happened as they should have.
Portal disagreed. In doing so it repeated its argument that the complaint had been brought 
out of time citing the same reasons as it gave in its final response letter to Mr S.
The investigator clarified that the time limit matter had already been decided by an 
ombudsman. And because there was nothing to persuade the investigator to change their 
mind, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
 The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice - but provides useful context for my assessment of BUSINESS's actions here. 
 
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
 
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
 
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. 
 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr S 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests. 
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr S as an insistent client - this is a 
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook, which required 
Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be clear and Mr S had to have understood 
the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Firstly I can see that Portal has maintained its stance on Mr S complaint  it believes his 
complaint was brought out of time. But an ombudsman has already decided that the 
complaint is not out of time and it is one we can consider. So I dont need to consider the 
issue of jurisdiction  my decision is about the merits or substance of Mr S complaint.
Mr S says that the shares Portal recommended he should invest his transferred pension 
monies into were low risk and he wouldnt lose capital. But Mr S says the shares now have 
no value. He says he is now worried about old age and wants his money reimbursed so he 
can feel comfortable and not have to struggle.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr S best interests. 
And I think Mr S likely understood or believed overall that Portal was recommending he 
should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 10 April 2012 following the telephone discussion Portal had with
Mr S about his pension options, it sent him what I think can only be described as a brief 
letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth rate required to match Mr S guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, and because hed be giving up those 
guaranteed benefits, it recommended he should not transfer away from his DB scheme to 
access a tax-free cash lump sum.
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the
transfer was not in Mr S best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr S had
little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr S should not
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr S needed to complete
and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes
me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr S
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr S best interests, it also wouldnt have told him
at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit a brief one - how he could put it
aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr S could ignore
Portals recommendation was unfair to him and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr S best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed
on this, that Mr S could reasonably have interpreted this overall that Portal was
recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr S had little knowledge or experience of
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr S was an
experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced. Im mindful too
that Portal had deemed Mr Ms attitude to risk to be moderately cautious. And in reaching 
this assessment, Mr S agreed that others would describe him as a cautious person; he didnt 
find investment matter easy to understand; he had little knowledge of investing; and it 
usually takes him a long time make up his mind on financial matters. I think this shouldve 
put Portal on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent 
client route.
Portal hasnt been able to provide signed copies of Mr S returned insistent client forms  but 
it has provided an example. And based on this, I dont think this demonstrates that Mr S 
likely knew and understood the risks involved and the recommendation being made. I say 
this not only because the form was pre-completed and Mr S simply had to sign underneath 
of a templated letter that he understood what he was giving up by transferring, but crucially 
as I indicated earlier on, he hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report and had time to 
read and digest it before deciding to go ahead anyway.
And Mr S indicated in the assessment of his attitude to risk that he typically took time to 
make up his mind on financial matters. So Im not persuaded Mr S was able to make an 
informed choice here.
It was only after receiving Mr S confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
(Ive assumed Mr S did likely return his signed insistent forms as Portal says) that Portal sent 
him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation not to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was followed by a positive recommendation, advising Mr S to transfer 
his benefits to a SIPP. And this was all set out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr S
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr S advice on the advice to
transfer, and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability
report after securing Mr S confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr S transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this
in my view completely undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal 
effectively recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that 
transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr S best 
interests, it needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was 
unsuitable for him. It couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of 
the full suitability report Mr S likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the 
DB scheme and it was reasonable for him to do so.
Mr S objective for accessing his pension early was to carry out some home improvements 
and to create an emergency fund. I understand Mr S used the money solely for home 
improvements. But I cant see that Portal discussed with Mr S how much money he actually 
needed and to what extent Mr S needed the money   for example whether Mr S objective 
was a nice to have or he had a real need for the money because his home required 
emergency repairs. Mr S has explained the home improvements he made, but theres 
nothing to indicate he needed all his tax-free cash entitlement immediately or that things 
couldnt have waited  for example Mr S couldve done things in stages or waited a few 
years until he reached his DB schemes normal retirement age.
It strikes me that Mr S was likely seduced by the sum of money he was told he could gain 
access to. But I dont think it was necessary for Mr S to gain access to his pension monies
early to achieve his objective at this stage.
Portal recorded that it discussed with Mr S the alternative of him borrowing the money he 
needed to meet his objective  but the fact-find says, Cant afford credit. Im mindful that Mr 
S wasnt working at the time  albeit Portal didnt establish whether Mr S was seeking work 
and whether his employment status was likely to change in the near future  but Mr S wife 
was working. And Portals completion of the budget planner in the fact-find was so poorly 
completed that, not only does it appear the adviser paid little attention to this area  the 
expenditure simply says Various Bills without any amounts or a breakdown  theres no 
supporting evidence that affordability prohibited Mr S, and or his wife, from obtaining some 
form of credit to help meet their need.
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the
rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act with due
care and skill and in Mr S best interests. And by not seeking to properly understand Mr S
objectives, how much he needed to achieve them or understanding the importance to him of 
meeting them at this stage, Im not persuaded this was acting in Mr S best interests.
Ultimately I dont think Mr S was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that
he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea and
this was the only way to meet his objective. Crucially I also think Portal ultimately gave Mr S 
a positive recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme, which in the circumstances I
think wouldve given him the impression that Portal agreed with his approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me toconclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr S can truly be regarded as an insistent
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an insistent client.
Portals overall communication with Mr S wasnt clear. It didnt act in Mr S best interests.
And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether
Mr S wouldve still gone ahead. Having done so, if Portal had acted in Mr S best interests,
providing a recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at
the outset properly addressed Mr S objectives at the time and emphasised the importance 
of his DB scheme for his future retirement income, I dont think he wouldve insisted on going 
ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr S was an experienced 
investor such that he possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to go against 
the professional advice he was given. 
So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Mr S would have still gone ahead and 
transferred had everything happened as it should have.
I can see that Portal recommended Mr S invest his pension monies in UCIS, which it said 
matched his attitude to risk. I wholly disagree with Portals assessment here  I think the 
investments recommended were of significantly greater risk than it had assessed Mr S was 
willing to take. But because I think Mr S would have most likely remained in his DB scheme 
had things happened as they should have, its not necessary for me to consider this 
particular matter any further.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
Mr S has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr S, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, my understanding is that Mr S couldve taken his DB pension benefits without 
reduction at age 60, and I think its likely that he wouldve done so had he remained in his 
DB scheme. So, compensation should be based on a normal retirement age of 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr S acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr S 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr S SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
As I said above, my aim is to return Mr S to the position he wouldve been in but for the 
actions of Portal. This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be 
readily sold on the open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the 
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. 
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr S to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr S wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr S can discuss 
with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are 
involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr S an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
To clarify - if the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any 
new guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with 
the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial
Services LLP to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman