DRN-3986399
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) closed his accounts.
Background
In January 2023, Halifax took the decision to close 12 of Mr Ws 15 accounts and it sent        
Mr W a letter confirming that it would be doing so within a month. Mr W was unhappy with 
this and complained.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards Mr W 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr W, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering accounts to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr W believes his 
account were closed because hed made a compliant. 
However, as long as it provides reasonable notice a bank has no obligation to share its 
reasons for its decision to close an account or accounts. In this case Halifax provided Mr W 
with reasonable notice. Nonetheless, it also explained that rather than being in response to 
Mr Ws complaint, it chose to close 12 of Mr Ws current accounts because a customer is 
only permitted to have three current accounts with it at any one time.
Ive looked at Halifaxs general account terms and conditions. And Ive seen that the terms 
and conditions do restrict customers to a maximum of 3 current accounts. So I while 
appreciate Mr Ws disappointment and its unclear how and why he was able to open 15 
current accounts in the first place, Im satisfied that Halifax had sufficient grounds to close 12 
of Mr Ws accounts. And as such its decision wasnt unfair in the circumstances. 
I realise that Halifaxs decision will have been very disappointing to Mr W and I can 
appreciate why timing of the decision may have at least given the appearance that it was in 
response to him having made a complaint. But I think this is more to do with when a review 
was carried out. In any event, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Halifax it has to 
continue offering Mr W further accounts in circumstances which it has legitimately decided it 
no longer wished to provide him with as many as he had. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr W and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision, hell 
appreciate why Halifax was entitled to close 12 of his accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman