DRN-4115421
The complaint
Ms D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money have irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
Ms D applied for and was accepted for a Virgin Money credit card in September 2019 with a 
credit limit of £5,400. Ms D says it was irresponsible for Virgin Money to approve her 
application and give her this credit limit. Ms D made a complaint to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money did not uphold Ms Ds complaint. They said her annual household income was 
reported as being £54,800. They said they approved the application after considering details 
provided from Ms D and information held by the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Virgin 
Money said that as there was no indication of financial difficulties then they approved her 
application. Ms D brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint. He said he didnt think the checks Virgin Money 
carried out were proportionate for a £5,400 credit limit as Ms Ds gross salary was recorded 
as £19,800. He said there was a high level of borrowing across multiple credit cards, loans 
and her monthly mortgage payment. Our investigator said that the level of borrowing at the 
time this credit card application was approved, was not proportionate to her income, and he 
didnt believe an opening credit limit of £5,400 was affordable to Ms D. Virgin Money asked 
for an Ombudsman to review Ms Ds complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Ms D, Virgin Money needed to 
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable 
for her. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I 
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the 
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as 
the consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks Virgin Money have 
done and whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Ive looked at what checks Virgin Money said they did when initially approving Ms Ds 
application for the credit card. Virgin Money said they looked at information provided by 
CRAs and information that Ms D had provided before approving her application. It does 
appear that Virgin Moneys checks show there was no adverse data being reported to the 
CRAs at the time of the approval for the Virgin Money credit card. 
But Im not persuaded that the account opening checks resulted in a fair lending decision. I 
say this as the information showed that Ms D had declared a total gross income of £19,800. 
And while she also declared a total household income of £54,800, this is largely irrelevant 
based on her being the sole account holder of the Virgin Money credit card, and as such she 
would be the only person responsible for making the repayments to the account  not 
anybody else in her household.
But this is not the only information that Virgin Moneys checks showed. They also showed 
that she had total unsecured borrowings of £16,891  which was likely to be more than her 
net annual income, and this was more than 85% of her gross annual income. The 
acceptance for the Virgin Money credit card would have meant her unsecured borrowings in 
total were higher than her gross income. 
The evidence suggests that Ms D did request balance transfer(s) of £3,190.21, based on 
Virgin Moneys data. Assuming she reduced her credit limits by the transferred amount, 
while this would save Ms D some interest for a limited period, Virgin Money had still 
increased her borrowings overall as the credit limit was a lot higher than the balance 
transfer(s) she had instructed Virgin Money to make as part of her application. So in effect, 
there was £2,209.79 of available new credit being provided to her over and above the 
amount Virgin Moneys checks showed she wanted to transfer to them. 
In addition to this, Virgin Moneys checks showed Ms Ds monthly mortgage payment of 
£799 a month. While the mortgage payment may not be paid by a sole individual, Ms Ds 
credit file shows that the mortgage is in her sole name. But Virgin Moneys checks show this 
full monthly payment as being paid by Ms D. The checks also showed that she was paying 
£449 a month for revolving debt repayments (such as credit cards) and £259 a month for 
non-revolving debt repayments (such as personal loans). 
So the total amount of debt per month that Virgin Moneys checks showed Ms D was paying 
totalled (£799+£449+£259) £1,507 a month. This would equate to £18,804 per annum  
which is virtually all of Ms Ds gross income and more than likely this would be more than 
she would actually earn after tax. So even if she had a reduction in her monthly repayments 
as a result of transferring a balance to Virgin Money, it is unlikely that the repayments for the 
Virgin Money credit card would be affordable and sustainable to Ms D, regardless of them 
giving her new credit on top of the amount she transferred from third parties and she would 
appear to have no (or very little) disposable income for non-debt related outgoings. So Im 
not persuaded that Virgin Money made a fair lending decision to approve the £5,400 credit 
limit. So it follows Ill be asking Virgin Money to put things right for Ms D.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should do the 
following:
Virgin Money should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed 
to a debt recovery agent or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out below is carried out 
promptly.
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms D along with 8%
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement. Virgin Money should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Ms Ds credit file;
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Virgin Money should arrange an
affordable repayment plan with Ms D for the remaining amount. Once Ms D has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from hercredit file.
Im satisfied this is reasonable in the circumstances.
*If Virgin Money considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Ms D how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Ms D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should settle the 
complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman