DRN-3623605
The complaint
Miss A complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, failed to 
honour a 10% credit back offer when she used a promotional code to purchase a phone 
using her Shop Direct credit account.
What happened
In April 2022 Miss A purchased a phone, Brand B, from Shop Direct. She said she followed 
a link on the Shop Direct website that promised 10% back, in the form of credit to her 
account, after a certain date. Miss A said when it came time for her 10% to be refunded, she 
was told the discount didn't apply to the particular model of phone she purchased. Miss A 
argued the discount code did apply and the link she followed took her to the site to purchase 
the particular model she bought. Miss A said she spoke to customer services on the phone 
and was told this was an error, that the code may have been applied before the system 
recognised that the model of phone wasn't included. She complained to Shop Direct and 
asked it to honour the 10% credit back it promised.
In its final decision Shop Direct said its terms and conditions confirm that the code Miss A 
used could not be used in conjunction with other offers, and that the model of phone she 
purchased wasn't included in the offer. It said this is why the credit back had not been 
actioned. Miss A wasn't satisfied and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that the model of phone Miss A ordered wasnt part of the 
promotion and so Miss A wasn't entitled to the 10% credit back. Miss A disagreed and asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. She reiterated that she clicked on a link which stated it 
would take her to the eligible products which included the phone she purchased.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss A but having done so I won't be asking 
Shop Direct to do anything further.
When Miss A opened her credit account with Shop Direct she accepted its terms and 
conditions. On the terms and conditions it says: 
2.3 Promotional codes are codes that enable customers to obtain benefits such as 
discounts, free delivery and free gifts. These codes are non-transferable so may only 
be used by the person to whom they are issued and must only be used in 
accordance with their terms and conditions of use. If you use a promotional code to 
claim a promotional benefit, you must first check that it was issued to you and that 
you are eligible to use it. .
If, after accepting your order, we find that you were not entitled to use the code or did 
not meet all the terms and conditions of its use, we may reverse the benefit that you 
obtained. If you transacted on a cash basis e.g. by debit or credit card, we may take 
a further payment, equivalent to the value of the benefit obtained, from the card used. 
If you transacted on a credit basis, the value of the benefit obtained may be charged 
to your credit account.
Miss A said she clicked on a link that stated all eligible products and then purchased the 
item. She said she didnt think to take a photo of the list of eligible items on the day but that 
Brand B was included. 
Shop Direct provided a list of phones and devices which were eligible for the promotion. 
While there are many different Brand B phones on the list, the particular model of phone 
Miss A purchased isnt. So, Im satisfied the phone Miss A purchased wasnt part of the 
promotion. 
Shop Direct said that when Miss A ordered the phone she selected 12 months Buy Now Pay 
Later as the repayment terms and also entered a promotion code for 10% back, as shown 
on her statement. It does appear that Miss A input the 10% back promotion code herself 
when ordering through the checkout process rather than, for example, a specific link for that 
model of Brand B. And as per its terms and conditions Shop Direct reversed the benefit as 
the model of phone wasnt included. 
Im not disputing Miss A when she says she saw her phone listed but I havent seen any 
evidence that it was. Where evidence is disputed, unclear or missing I must decide based on 
what I believe is likely to have happened. Im persuaded the model of Brand B that Miss A 
purchased likely wasnt included in the offer. As such I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to instruct Shop Direct to provide the 10% credit back.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman