DRN-2434611
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt cancel a previous account card when he 
received a replacement leading to an attempted misuse of the card and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr S reported he had lost his card and so a replacement was ordered. He then found the old 
card and was told he could use the replacement as a back-up. But he then activated the new 
card on 4 May 2020 and was told that the old one was cancelled. He contacted Monzo when 
he received a request through its mobile app to authorise a payment of £30.71 on 22 July 
2020 which he didnt recognise. His existing card was blocked and a new one was issued. 
But he then found out that the payment had actually been attempted on the first cancelled 
card.
Monzo issued a final response saying that it had made a mistake in not blocking that first 
card. It said that this had put the account at risk, and it offered to give Mr S a shopping 
voucher for £30. After Mr S had referred his complaint to this service it said that this 
explanation wasnt correct. The first card had been deactivated when Mr S activated his 
replacement card on 4 May 2020. But that this didnt stop authorisation requests to be made 
on that card. And it said Mr S had confirmed on 24 July 2020 in an online chat that I have 
found the attempted purchase on my [retailers name] app, on which I only have my old 
Monzo card [gives last 4 digits] registered.  But it said that even if Mr S had confirmed the 
payment in the app it would still not have gone through. So, it hadnt made a mistake. The 
offer of the voucher or an alternative of a cash payment of £30 to Mr S remained available.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Monzo do anything more than this. She said that 
Monzo had now explained that the account wasnt at risk and so it hadnt made a mistake. 
But that she appreciated the worry that had been caused to Mr S. And the compensation 
was still available.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that Monzo had mistakenly taken responsibility for not 
deactivating the card on 4 May 2020 when it was done after all. He had spent time on the 
phone about this and it had miscommunicated what had happened. He said that the request 
in the app for authorisation was counter-intuitive and contrary to what he had been told by 
Monzo. And he wanted a more appropriate amount of compensation of at least £100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked through the online chat logs between Mr S and Monzo and its clear he was given 
an incorrect explanation of what happened. And Monzo blocked his replacement card 
meaning that he was given a third card which wasnt necessary. That explanation was given 
in the final response letter and has only been clarified after he referred his complaint to this 
service.
There was no actual financial loss on his account. So, I dont need to look into how a 
payment seemed to originate from his own app with the online retailer and whether or not 
that was authorised. There is no evidence of any other such attempted payments with those 
card details since then. 
Monzo says that his account was never at risk. It hadnt blocked the first card because Mr S 
had told it that he had found it again. So that card remained active until Mr S activated his 
card. Ive seen its audit log which confirms it was marked as replaced at the exact time the 
new card was activated. Mr S expected based on what he was told that the old card wasnt 
usable. So, he was concerned when an authorisation request on that card came through. 
And I can understand why he thinks this was odd. But I am assured that even if he had said 
that this was a genuine payment it wouldnt have gone through. 
While the account wasnt at risk and there was no financial loss I do think that Mr S was 
inconvenienced by what happened. He could have been given this explanation at the start 
and may have been reassured by it. I appreciate he wants a payment of more than Monzo 
have offered. We dont tend to make awards for time spent and having taken our published 
guidelines about trouble and upset into account I think that the offer of £30 that still remains 
open from Monzo is a reasonable one and reflects the impact of what happened.
My final decision
Monzo has already made an offer to pay £30 and I think that this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So my decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mr S £30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman