DRN-2843041
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined 
its application for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
Miss N is Cs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
C was incorporated in January 2020. It held banking facilities elsewhere, but its provider 
wasnt offering loans under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. So Ms N approached Barclays. 
Barclays opened a new business account for C in December 2020, but it declined the 
companys Bounce Back Loan application. It said this was because it was now only 
accepting applications from customers trading through a Barclays account on or before 
1 March 2020  which C hadnt been. Ms N challenged the banks decision, but it remained 
unchanged. So she referred the matter to us. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
From October 2020, Barclays was only accepting applications from customers whod 
been running their business through a Barclays account prior to March 2020.
She thought Barclays had been entitled to decide the basis on which it was willing to 
accept applications and didnt think this was unreasonable, particularly bearing in 
mind the level for borrowing under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Barclays had decided Cs application in line with its published criteria  the company 
had opened its account after the relevant cut-off date in October 2020, and so wasnt 
eligible to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan.
Ms N didnt accept our investigators view. She thought C was eligible for a Bounce Back 
Loan and didnt think the basis of the banks decision was fair. In short, this was because 
she said shed done all she could to open an account sooner  but the coronavirus 
pandemic had caused delays and restricted her options. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that I appreciate Ms N and her company have been left in a difficult 
position. C had only recently been established when the coronavirus pandemic began, and 
at that time it didnt happen to hold a bank account with one of the accredited lenders under 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. This meant that its options were somewhat limited, as a 
relatively small number of providers were accepting applications for a Bounce Back Loan 
from new customers. And Im sorry to read that C is now experiencing some financial 
difficulty, and of the impact that this will have on Miss N and her family.
However, for me to uphold the complaint  and require Barclays to offer C a loan or do 
anything differently  Id need to find that the bank made an error or treated the company 
unfairly. And, for much the same reasons as our investigator, I dont think it did. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail. 
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications  both from new and existing customers. This means it 
wasnt obliged to offer a loan to a customer, even if they met the eligibility criteria under the 
rules of the Scheme.
By the time C came to apply to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan, the bank was only 
accepting applications from customers whod been running their business through a 
Barclays account on or before 1 March 2020. Barclays was entitled to set such criteria and I 
dont think it was unreasonable. It was a legitimate way for the bank to both deal with the 
unprecedented level of demand it was faced with (particularly in view of the deadline of 
30 November to process loan applications in place at the time), and comply with its anti-
fraud obligations. 
Ive seen evidence that this change to Barclays criteria came into effect in mid-October 
2020, which was prior to Cs application. It follows that I dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong in declining Cs request, on the basis that the company hadnt been running its 
business through a Barclays account on or before 1 March 2020. 
Ive not seen that Barclays caused any unreasonable delay in opening Cs account, and 
certainly not such that the company could have completed its loan application before the 
bank changed its criteria in October 2020. 
Taking everything into account, therefore, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in how it 
handled Cs application for a Bounce Back Loan  so Im not requiring it to take any action in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman