DRN-3400887
The complaint
Miss C complains about the repairs that Ageas Insurance Limited made to her car following 
a claim on her motor insurance policy. Shes also unhappy that she had to pay her policy 
excess when she was involved in an incident whilst returning her courtesy car. 
What happened
Miss C made a claim following a non-fault accident and Ageas appointed an approved 
repairer to undertake repairs to the cars bumper. There were initial delays in the car being 
taken for repair as it couldnt be collected by the repairer. 
When the car was returned to her, Miss C reported problems with the central locking. Ageas 
replaced the key fob as a gesture of goodwill. Miss C then reported that the wipers didnt 
work. Ageas said this wasnt related to the accident or repairs, but it also repaired this as a 
gesture of goodwill. Miss C had a further accident whilst returning the courtesy car and she 
was unhappy that she then had to pay her £650 policy excess. She also said that the new 
key fob wasnt synched properly. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
issues with the key fob and wipers werent related to the accident or the repairs. So he 
thought Ageas had reasonably agreed to repair them. He explained that the policy excess 
was an uninsured loss that Miss C could recover through her legal expenses cover. And he 
thought Ageas had reasonably offered to consider expert evidence that showed there were 
problems with the key fob. 
Miss C replied that the repairer should have collected her car and shed been caused 
inconvenience by several cancelled appointments and having to take the car in herself. She 
said the replacement key fob was a cheap version and she had to pay £50 for it to be 
reprogrammed. She said that the second accident was a consequence of the long delays in 
the repairs being made.  
Ageas said there was likely an underlying problem with the cars central locking system. But 
it reimbursed Miss C £50 for her costs as it had agreed. But Miss C remained unhappy and 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So its come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss C feels frustrated that her car was repaired yet there were further 
problems with it after it was returned to her. Miss C said there was nothing wrong with the 
central locking before she took it to the repairer. She said the car locked and unlocked using 
the fob when she dropped the car off for repairs. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about additional 
repairs.
Ageas said the problems with the central locking system werent identified when the car was 
checked in by the repairers. So it couldnt say they didnt develop whilst the car was in the 
care of the repairer. But the only repairs made were to the rear bumper. 
Ive looked at Ageas file and I can see that a pre-diagnostic report dated before repairs were 
started said there was an error code showing that the drivers door module or wiring was 
faulty. Ageas said the fault could be remedied by replacing and recoding the key fob. And it 
did this as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss C later found that this wasnt effective and provided a note from a locksmith that said 
recoding was needed. Ageas agreed to reimburse Miss C for this cost. And I think thats fair 
and reasonable as Ageas undertook to pay for this if it was found faulty.
So Im satisfied that when Miss C reported the fault with the key, Ageas reasonably 
investigated it. It couldnt say that the fault didnt happen whist the car was in its repairers 
care. But I can see that the diagnostic report showing the fault was made before repairs 
were started. And its engineer identified this as a common fault with the model. 
So I think Ageas justified its decision that it was unlikely that it was responsible for this fault. 
But it nevertheless replaced the fob as a gesture of goodwill. When this was shown to be 
faulty, I think it reasonably reimbursed Miss C for her costs. 
Ageas said the windscreen wiper fault was unrelated to the accident or the repairs but due to 
wear and tear. But it also repaired this as a gesture of goodwill, taking into account Miss Cs 
customer journey and inconvenience. I havent seen any engineering evidence to show that 
this fault was due to the accident or the repairs. So I cant say that Ageas was responsible 
for the wiper fault. 
Miss C said there were initial delays in the repairs as the repairer had no one to collect her 
car. She said she waited in one day and then, after a second appointment was cancelled, 
she took the car in herself. The journey took her one and a half hours causing her 
inconvenience.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Miss Cs policy booklet and it says on page 7 that the approved repairer will 
collect and return her car after its been repaired. I can see from Ageas file that it instructed 
the approved repairer and the hire when Miss C reported her claim. Ageas told Miss C that it 
would deal with her claim as quickly as possible. But repairs couldnt be started as the 
repairer had no one to collect Miss Cs car. 
This was unfortunate, but I think all claims entail some inconvenience. I can understand that 
Miss C wanted her car repaired and so she decided to take her car in herself and this 
caused her inconvenience. But I cant see that Miss C raised this with Ageas at the time for it 
to remedy. 
As it was, Miss Cs car was driveable and so she was kept mobile whilst she waited for three 
weeks until she decided to take her car in herself. And then Ageas carried out the repairs to 
the key fob and the wipers as a gesture of goodwill. I think this reasonably compensated 
Miss C for her inconvenience caused by the delays and having to take the car in herself. 
Miss C said the second accident was a direct result of her having to return the courtesy car 
to the garage and this has left her out of pocket for her policy excess. I think it was very 
unfortunate that Miss C was involved in the accident. But I can see that she decided to 
return the courtesy car herself. And I cant reasonably hold Ageas responsible for Miss C 
being involved in the accident.  And, as liability wasnt admitted by the other drivers insurer, Miss C had to pay her policy 
excess. This is always the first part of a claim to be paid. And so I cant say that this was 
unfair or unreasonable. As Ageas has advised, Miss C may be able to recover this as an 
uninsured loss through her legal expenses cover.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman