DRN-3850842
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received when transferring his ISA account to 
Interactive Investor Services Limited (II). He complained about the length of time the 
transfer took to complete and that the assets were transferred in specie rather than cash.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr H started the process of transferring his ISA account from the ceding 
business  which I shall refer to as Company A in this decision  to IIs platform. He 
became unhappy with the length of time the transfer was taking and that the transfer wasnt 
completed in cash. He complained to II. In its response it said;
 It outlined the timeline of the transfer.
Some of the secure messages Mr H had sent to II had mixed up his ISA transfer with 
other accounts he was transferring. 
There was a delay in Mr H responding to requests for instruction about one of the 
funds held within his account  the BMO fund.
The transfer had completed on 24 September and final cash received on 7 October. 
While there were considerable delays, II couldnt agree it contributed to the delay. It 
had requested action for the BMO fund numerous times and had chased Company A 
for the cash balance. It said it was in its best interest to transfer the account as 
quickly and efficiently as possible.
Mr Hs initial instruction for the ISA transfer was that it should be completed in specie. 
Mr H sent a second instruction via a secure message on 21 June 2021 that some 
holdings were to be sold. That message referred to both the SIPP account he was 
transferring and his ISA, amongst others. As the instructions werent clear II 
continued to carry out Mr Hs initial instruction to process the transfer in specie.
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
He provided a timeline of the events. 
II had made clear to Mr H what action was needed for the unsupported asset  the 
BMO fund  and made reasonable efforts to update him and chase for a response to 
proceed. Because Mr H didnt place any instruction for the asset held within the ISA, 
the transfer was delayed until September 2021. 
He didnt agree that Mr H gave clear instructions on 21 June to sell the assets in his 
ISA and it wasnt unreasonable for II to have asked for clarity, which it did in its 
message to Mr H on 7 July. Mr H said that the instruction given on 21 June changed 
his initial in specie instruction to a request that cash was to be transferred. It was 
right that II didnt act on Mr Hs instruction of 21 June to transfer as cash instead. 
Without the instruction for the BMO fund the ISA transfer couldnt complete as that 
fund formed part of the overall ISA transfer and all assets needed to be dealt with. 
The instruction to sell the BMO fund wasnt given until 7 September. After that date 
the investigator was satisfied that transfer had completed within a reasonable 
timeframe. II hadnt done anything wrong and there was no need for Mr H to be 
compensated for any delays. 
Mr H didnt agree with the outcome and requested that his complaint be reconsidered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me. Mr H provided additional comment for my 
consideration.  He said;
Mr H also transferred his SIPP to II as well as the ISA, but the SIPP transfer was 
completed first and he couldnt see there was any reason for this. He had lost out on 
investment opportunities during the three/four-month delay.
He wasnt made aware of the delay. 
If it was the BMO fund that had caused the delay, this holding was common to his 
ISA and his SIPP. He gave a sale instruction for this fund  amongst others  on     
21 June 2021 but the transfer remained on hold. If that asset had been sold, then the 
transfer progress would have been re-triggered. 
The ISA and SIPP teams at II who were dealing with the transfers didnt 
communicate effectively with each other.
Mr H had also given the sale instruction to Company A on 16 June so II should have 
discussed this with Company A when contact was made. Company A had informed 
Mr H on the same day that it couldnt proceed with any sales as the transfer was in 
progress. He has said his sale instructions superseded his earlier in specie 
instructions. His wishes were ignored. Otherwise the transfer could have completed 
without delay.
Several times Mr H asked II to account for all the funds in both his ISA and his SIPP. 
He didnt receive specific and adequate explanations.
The BMO fund wasnt sold until 7 September when it should have been sold in June 
as per Mr Hs instructions. 
There was one fund that II omitted to transfer from the original request and that was 
the Legal & General UK Property Feeder I Acc. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr H has sent us many detailed and lengthy submissions for consideration, and I thank him 
for his efforts. I wont be responding to every comment he has made, only those I consider 
salient to the complaint. I dont mean any disrespect by this and Id like to reassure Mr H that 
I have taken account of all the information and comments he has provided. 
I know the parties will be familiar with the timing of events but for clarity, I detail them here;
26.04.21 Mr H logged his ISA transfer request online and which provided the 
transfer reference TR-***814. The transfer was to be made in specie.27.04.21 This was logged by II on its electronic system to contact the ceding 
broker and an update was sent to Mr H. The ISA transfer number 
ended 814.
06.05.21 A valuation was received from Company A. One of the funds, the 
BMO Universal MAP C Acc Fund wasnt supported on IIs platform. An 
email and secure message were sent to Mr H advising him he could 
sell the investment and transfer the cash to II or convert the fund to a 
clean version of the fund.
09.05.21 Mr H queried the message as he said he didnt hold that fund with 
Company A. Correspondence continued and II said it would query the 
valuation with Company A.
11.05.21 II confirmed the valuation it had received from Company A detailed the 
following assets held within Mr Hs ISA account 
Witan Investment Trust
Legal & General UK Property Feeder Fund (I) Accumulation
Bailie Gifford Managed Fund B Accumulation
Legal & General Multi-Index 5 Fund I Class Accumulation
BMO Universal MAP Growth Fund C Accumulation
HSBC Global Strategy Dynamic Portfolio Accumulation C
Cash of £731.31.
18.05.21 The BMO fund was confirmed as being the one shown in the 
valuation. 
03.06.21 Mr H was emailed asking him to confirm which asset he held after he 
had referred to Company A.
04.06.21 Mr H advised II he was going to switch funds with [Company A] and 
would update.
09.06.21 Mr H is advised by secure message that while the fund was being 
converted by Company A the ISA transfer would be put on hold. He 
was asked to update II when the switch had completed. 
17.06.21 Mr H has a phone conversation with II about the transfer but about his 
SIPP.
21.06.21 Mr H messaged II asking about the various five different account 
transfers he had taking place. He gave different instructions about the 
investments on all of the five accounts, some of which he wanted sold 
and some to be retained. 
07.07.21 Mr H was asked for the references for each of the five transfers as 
they had been logged separately at II. And he was asked about his 
instruction for the BMO fund. If it had been sold or converted already II 
needed confirmation so that II could request a new valuation of Mr Hs 
account with Company A.
23.07.21, 03.08.21, 12.08.21 and 19.08.21 Mr H was emailed on all of these dates 
asking for his instruction for the BMO fund.27.08.21 Mr H messages that not all of his ISA transfer has been completed. 
Around £300,000 of assets still remained with Company A. In 
response a secure message was sent also asking for his instruction 
for the BMO fund or confirmation that action had been taken so II 
could request a new valuation from Company A.
07.09.21 Mr H confirmed his instruction to sell the BMO fund and asked how 
quickly the funds would be available for reinvestment. He also asked 
what had happened to the remaining ISA funds. 
15.09.21 II sends its acceptance to Company A.
17.09.21 Trade and settlement dates agreed with Company A.
21/22/24.09.21 Mr Hs assets are transferred to IIs platform.
03.10.21 Mr H updated and advised II was waiting for the cash balance from 
Company A which was being chased.
07.10.21 Cash received and added to Mr Hs account. 
11.11.21 Mr H sends a secure message to II asking what happened to two 
funds that he thinks should have been transferred. The message read 
Please could you advise what has happened to the following two 
SIPP funds on transfer from [Company A] to yourselves. Aviva Insured 
Funds Property S14 [and] Aviva Insured Funds Smooth Managed 
S14. 
18.11.21 II replied to Mr H confirming the ISA transfer was complete and asking 
him for the reference for his SIPP transfer. 
26.11.21 Mr H responds  Hi I am unclear as to what reference you are asking 
for. My [Company A] reference number [is.] Please could you clarify 
what happened to the following 3 funds; Legal and General UK 
Property Feeder I acc, Aviva Insured Funds Property S14, Aviva 
Insured Funds Smooth Managed S14.  
02.12.21 II confirms that it had not been advised by Company A that these 
additional assets were to be transferred. It said the L&G Property 
Fund had been received and it was going to log a new request for the 
two Aviva funds.
06.12.21 II messages Mr H to say it was unsure as to why your 3 funds 
mentioned in your secure [message] were not transferred over in your 
previous transfer. We have logged a new transfer and will await a 
valuation, if these three funds are not shown on there then we will 
contact your existing provider to query this. 
07.12.21 A valuation was requested from Company A.
14.12.21 The request was rejected as Mr Hs ISA account with Company A had 
a zero balance. II called Company A but it was unable to locate Mr Hs 
details based on the account number given. Mr H was updated of this 
and was advised to contact Company A.21/31.12.21 The above message was reiterated by Company A, and Mr H was 
advised if it didnt receive a response in seven days the transfer would 
be cancelled. 
10.01.22 No response was received so the transfer was cancelled. 
As detailed above, on 6 May 2021 Mr H was sent a secure message to explain that the BMO 
fund he held in his ISA wasnt supported by IIs platform. He was told he could either convert 
his holding to the clean version of the fund or sell it. After further contact Mr H confirmed 
with II on 4 June that We are going to switch funds with [Company A] and will update you. It 
was at this point that the transfer was put on hold  from 9 June  until the update was 
received. 
I can see that on 21 June Mr H contacted II to confirm what action he wanted taking on his 
ISA account. It is headed URGENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR TRANSFER and continues;
Hi [II contact], This message is being sent from both accounts for your attention. 
Further to our telephone conversation of 17/6/21..As you are aware, we have 
already attempted to make investments with [Company A] but [Company A] have 
suspended our funds due to the pending transfer. Irrespective of this, I understand 
you are still able to ask them to convert the funds to cash and transfer the cash 
across to Interactive Investor. Below is a list of the funds we would like to sell and 
convert into cash or transfer the actual fund to Interactive Investor. 
For his ISA account Mr H wanted to retain Baillie Gifford Managed B and Witan Investment 
Trust. He wanted to sell Legal & General UK Property Feeder Fund (I) Accumulation, Legal 
& General Multi-Index 5 Fund I Class Accumulation, BMO Universal MAP Growth Fund C 
Accumulation and HSBC Global Strategy Dynamic Portfolio Accumulation C.
In response to this on 7 July II explained that each of your transfers have been logged 
separately with a number of case handlers working on these. In order to proceed, please can 
you clarify the TR [transfer] references for each of your transfers to which these relate so 
these can be passed onto the relevant case handler. Furthermore, if you could clarify the 
ISIN/SEDOL [the unique code for each holding] and unit quantity for each asset that would 
help considerably. Mr H was also asked about the action to be taken for the unsupported 
BMO fund.
The message of 21 June from Mr H had previously been sent to Company A, but as 
explained, Company A couldnt proceed with any sales as the transfer of the assets was in 
progress. So, Mr H sent the same message to II on 21 June. 
In correspondence with this service Mr H has said that he didnt understand the message he 
received from II with regard to the TR and ISIN/SEDOL references referred to. And he said 
that he thought [Company A] and II should organise this between themselves for the 
transfer. [Company A] and II were both informed of our wishes to sell the funds. The BMO 
fund was referred to again. It was my belief that the selling of this unsupported asset had 
already been agreed with [II] to be sold at [Company A] following my conversation with [II] on 
17/6/21 and confirmed by my secure messages to her on 18/6/21 and then 21/6/21. The 
latter message spells out all the other funds to be converted to cash too at [Company A] in 
both my Pension/SIPP and ISA, before transfer.
I dont think Mr H is being fair here. Ive reviewed the message sent on 21 June to II after it 
had already been sent to Company A. Company A had already made it clear that it couldnt 
carry out any sales as the transfers were in transit. So, I dont agree with Mr Hs comment 
that Company A and II should have sorted this out between themselves. Mr Hs account was an execution only account, so he was the one who had to give the instruction to one or other 
of the parties and I would not expect the two firms to have to interpret the actions he wanted 
from either of them. And those actions had already been altered since Mr Hs original 
instruction to transfer in specie and then subsequently altered for the BMO fund where Mr H 
had said it was going to switch it with Company A and would then update II. The in specie 
transfer as previously requested was already in progress. 
The message of 21 June includes all of the five accounts Mr H (and his wife) were 
transferring from Company A to II. So, the one message was sent from one account and 
related to five different transfers for two different people plus one business. Several of those 
accounts held stocks in common or similar stocks and I dont think II was being 
unreasonable when it made clear in its response that it needed more of a breakdown of what 
investments were to be sold and from which account plus the amount of the holding to be 
sold. Mr H has said that the ISA and SIPP teams within II should have communicated 
together. 
But I think by now the waters had been muddied and the instruction had become confused. It 
changed from being an in specie transfer for all of the assets, to a sale of some of those 
assets plus no update in the meantime about the BMO fund despite Mr H advising that 
would be the case. And I note the message of 21 June also included an instruction to sell 
three funds held within the SIPP. But Mr H had already given that instruction for the three 
assets which were unsupported on IIs platform to II on 18 June so I can understand why 
there was confusion about what action Mr H wanted. And I also understand that because 
administrative/regulatory issues there were problems with the business account being 
transferred. So, taking all of this into account I am satisfied that it was reasonable for clarity 
to have been sought  which is what IIs responding message intended to do. 
I accept that the contact at II confirmed receipt of the message and that it was being passed 
onto the relevant teams. But it was after that  on 7 July  once the message had been fully 
reviewed that II responded saying it needed more information and effectively clearer 
instructions. In any event, II has said this didnt contribute to any delay as the instruction on 
the BMO fund wasnt given until September. 
Mr H has queried why the rest of the assets within his ISA account couldnt have been 
transferred. However, because this was an ISA account there are strict rules about how an 
account should be held  there are limitations. So, it was prudent of II to have put the ISA 
transfer on holding pending the BMO fund instruction in case the transfer of the whole of the 
ISA was impacted. 
And with regard to TR and ISIN/SEDOL references, II has told us, and I have seen the 
messages headings for the different transfer updates, and note they all include the unique 
TR reference for each account which I am of the opinion should have been referred to in any 
instruction Mr H gave II. The TR codes were also referred to by both II and company A as 
well as on the transfer request forms Mr H was provided with and which was uploaded to the 
account on IIs website. Ive seen the ISA transfer request forms and note that they included 
a TR code as well as the account number Mr H held with Company A. Mr H has said that he 
couldnt be expected to know or remember the reference numbers and it was reasonable for 
him to assume it related to the ISA and SIPP transfer. 
But I dont agree. Those transfer requests were given separately and allocated separate 
transfer numbers. I would have expected Mr H to have been aware of the different accounts 
and that clearly all parties to the transfer would have referred to those unique references in 
order for stocks/cash etc to be correctly allocated. And II has also told us that the 
ISIN/SEDOL numbers would be referred to by both providers in earlier transfer 
communications.  In conclusion, I dont think II did anything wrong in not carrying out the instructions given in 
Mr Hs message of 21 June. As far as II was concerned Mr H had given an instruction to 
transfer the ISA account in specie. That request was being progressed albeit being put on 
hold on 9 June further to his message of 4 June that he was switching the BMO fund with 
Company A and would refer back to II to confirm. 
No confirmation about that switch was given, only the message on 21 June  which included 
a sale instruction for the BMO fund  about sales on all five accounts but without any TR 
reference numbers or unique stock codes. So, I can understand the confusion that arose 
and why II sought further confirmation from Mr H on 7 July. 
Mr H has said he was entitled to change his mind about the transfer and should have been 
advised of this. And I agree he was entitled to do so  they were his assets. But Mr H had 
already put instructions in place for the transfer from Company A and then that had 
temporarily been halted pending his confirmation of the BMO fund and then further 
instruction  for all five of the accounts  was given two weeks later which caused confusion 
and needed clarification. At that time the valuations had been received. 
The unsupported asset  BMO Universal MAP Growth C Accumulation
Mr H uploaded his ISA transfer request on 26 April 2021. On 6 May he was advised that the 
BMO fund was unsupported on IIs platform and he could either switch the fund or could 
encash it and transfer the cash. Mr H confirmed on 4 June that he would switch the 
investment while it was on Company As platform and then advise II. However, this was then 
followed up with the message for all five of the accounts being transferred and various 
actions Mr H wanted taken. In response on 7 July II asked for further confirmation about the 
various account details and stocks and also reminded Mr H that action needed to be taken 
with the BMO fund. 
Mr H has said communication from II about the BMO fund was confusing and its message to 
him in May 2021 didnt specify whether the fund being referred to was held within his SIPP 
or ISA. But I note the heading of the message sent to Mr H refers to the TR reference for his 
ISA account only so bearing in mind what I have said above  that I am satisfied that Mr H 
should reasonably have been aware of the different transfer references for the five different 
accounts  I cant conclude that the message sent to him was confusing. And I also note that 
for the SIPP account the BMO fund and the two Aviva funds he referred to as not being 
transferred had already been sold in June 2021 upon his instruction given in a secure 
message to II on 18 June in direct response to the question about what action he wanted 
taken.
Mr H confirmed instruction to sell the BMO fund on 7 September 2021. That sale instruction 
was made shortly afterwards and the whole of the ISA transfer took place in specie. 
In his complaint Mr H has said that there were still outstanding transfers for his ISA and his 
SIPP in November 2021. But I dont think this is correct. In Mr Hs messages of                   
11 and 26 November he refers to two funds held in his SIPP and then in his later message 
he refers to three funds. The records suggest that the two Aviva funds referred to were 
actually held in his SIPP, but the Legal & General UK Property Feeder Fund was held within 
his ISA account. And the Legal & General UK Property Feeder Fund was one of those that 
had already been transferred in specie into his ISA September 2021. So, it seems Mr H 
might have been muddled about the transfer that had already taken place and into what 
account.Mr H says that his ISA transfer was completely forgotten about. But taking into consideration 
all of the correspondence that was carried out I dont agree with this comment. I think II was 
clear in its messaging that it was waiting for an instruction about the BMO fund held within 
Mr Hs ISA account before it could proceed with the transfer. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the transfer was forgotten about. 
Overall, I dont think II has done anything wrong. It couldnt complete the transfer of the ISA 
until Mr H had given an instruction about what action he wanted taken with the unsupported 
BMO fund. I think II was clear the Mr H needed to take some action. 
So, taking all of the above into account I dont agree that II caused any unreasonable delays 
in transferring the ISA. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman