DRN-3363571
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) caused 
delays in transferring her Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA) and Fund & Share (F&S) account, 
causing her financial loss. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, 
I have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
22 October 2020: HLAM receive the request to transfer Mrs Bs ISA and F&S 
account to another provider. 
19 November 2020: HLAM receive a complaint about the delay.
17 December 2020: HLAM confirm the transfer is being processed and in-specie 
transfers usually take six weeks.
14 January 2021: ISA transfer completes.   
19 January 2021: F&S account transfer completes. 
HLAM has paid Mrs B £150 for what happened. Our investigator recommended HLAM pay 
Mrs B a further £50 for its mistake. However, Mrs B is seeking an increased amount of 
compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
All parties agree that there was a delay in transferring Mrs Bs ISA and F&S account 
to another provider. When a business has delayed a transfer I firstly need to consider 
if there was any financial impact. Mrs B wanted to transfer her funds held in both 
accounts, in specie. Due to the nature of the transfer these can typically take longer. 
But Ive thought about the timescales HLAM gave Mrs B. On 17 December 2020, it 
told Mrs B that the process would take around six weeks. Following this, I can see 
the transfer did complete within six weeks of the December date but by this point, the 
transfer was into its eighth week. 
HLAM has said the delay was due to high business volumes which led to an increase 
in the processing time. So, whilst I understand the reasons for the delays, I still need 
to consider the impact on Mrs B. I think HLAM couldve transferred Mrs Bs funds 
much quicker than it did and therefore, Ive considered whether she suffered any 
financial loss because of HLAMs delays. 
Mrs Bs funds were transferred in-specie which meant that she wasnt out of the 
market whilst the transfer process was taking place. I dont dispute that Mrs B wanted 
her new provider to actively manage her funds. And I can see that once the transfer 
was complete Mrs Bs funds were sold over time. 
From January 2021 to June 2021, there were various disposals and purchases 
through Mrs Bs account with her new provider. But I dont think this sufficiently 
demonstrates that Mrs B was always intending to buy or sell specific investments 
once the transfer was completed.
On balance, I think the evidence supports that Mrs B had no specific intention to buy 
or sell immediately on transfer. I think its more likely than not that this was decided 
by the new provider based on an evaluation of Mrs Bs holdings at any particular 
point in time. 
Under these circumstances, I cant fairly say that Mrs B lost out on any specific 
opportunity as a result of HLAMs mistakes. So, I wont be asking it to compensate 
Mrs B for any financial loss she says shes made.
Nonetheless, I accept HLAM couldve carried out the transfer more quickly. It didnt 
communicate effectively with Mrs B to manage her expectations about how long a 
transfer of this type could take. When it did tell Mrs B it could take up to six weeks, 
the transfer had already taken eight weeks. 
Putting things right
HLAM has already paid Mrs B £150 compensation but I agree with the recommended 
award of an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience, bringing the total 
compensation amount to £200 for the mistakes made by HLAM.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint and Im awarding compensation as set 
out above.
My final decision
I order Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay Mrs B a further £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused in addition to the £150 it has already paid her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman