DRN-3741591
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that it missed out on a grant during the Covid-19 pandemic 
due to errors by Barclays Bank UK PLC. P is represented by its director who Ill refer to as 
Ms S. She asks that Barclays pays compensation.
What happened
Ms S asked Barclays to update Ps address in its records in November 2020. Problems with 
Barclays systems meant it couldnt update Ps address at that time.
The UK Government brought in restrictions in late 2021 in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic. Ms S says P couldnt trade for a period from late 2021. Ms S says grants were 
offered to support businesses that couldnt trade. She says P was unable to secure a grant 
as it couldnt provide three months bank statements. She says she was unable to view or 
print the statements, and Barclays still had Ps old address in its systems. 
Our investigator said Barclays should have dealt better with the problems related to the 
change of address, and it should pay £200 compensation. Our investigator said Ms S hadnt 
provided evidence that Barclays error was the cause of P missing out on the grant.
Barclays agreed. It said Ms S hadnt told it the problem with updating Ps address meant she 
couldnt apply for the grant until after the application deadline had passed. It said if shed 
contacted it earlier it could have offered help. It said there could have been other reasons 
why P didnt get the grant.
Ms S said £200 isnt enough compensation. She said the stress caused health problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S asked Barclays to update Ps address in November 2020. Barclays had a problem with 
its systems at that time and couldnt update Ps address. It found a way for its staff to 
process requests. However, Ms S needed to contact it and ask again for the address to be 
updated. 
Ms S says P missed out on a grant because it couldnt provide bank statements with the 
correct address. We asked if she could provide evidence to support this, such as an email or 
letter from her local council. 
P applied for a grant in late February 2022. Ps local council said in response that the nature 
of Ps business meant it wasnt eligible for the grant. I dont think any problems with Ps 
address or providing its bank statements was the reason P didnt get the grant.
Ms S says the stress of trying to sort out the problem with Ps bank statements caused her 
health problems. I must be clear here that P is the account holder and therefore the 
complainant. I cant usually require banks to pay compensation to third parties (such as 
Ms S), or for their upset or distress. Im sorry about Ms Ss health problems, but this isnt 
something I can fairly require Barclays to pay compensation for.
As a limited company P relies on its directors and officers to manage its business. Having to 
contact Barclays more than once to update Ps address would have caused Ps officers 
inconvenience and I can require Barclays to pay compensation for that.
Ms S says she called Barclays many times. She provided phone invoices with a list of the 
numbers called over several months. Ms S hasnt said which of these calls were to Barclays 
and related to her change of address. Barclays says Ms S didnt call it about the change of 
address until March 2022. While Barclays records show Ms S called Barclays about other 
matters, its records dont suggest she asked about updating Ps address. 
Ms S sent a webchat message to Barclays on 21 March 2022. This said I just noticed that 
the business account statementshave the previous address. Please update as soon as 
possible. Ps address was updated and a complaint raised the same day. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Ms S contacted Barclays many times about 
updating Ps address, or was caused significant inconvenience. I dont think P was caused 
any financial loss. But Ms S did have to contact Barclays more than once to update Ps 
address. In the circumstances, I think £200 is fair and reasonable compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclay Bank UK PLC to pay £200 to P (if 
it hasnt already done so). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman