DRN-4225668
The complaint
Mr D complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) cancelled two 
online orders without his agreement. He wants Fidelity to honour the orders, and to pay him 
compensation for the anxiety hes been caused.
What happened
Mr D had a holding in a fund, which Ill refer to as F. After the markets closed on 
26 September 2022, Mr D placed two online orders for the sale of F. He received online 
confirmation that the orders had been received.
On 29 September the orders were cancelled. Fidelity said its website had showed the wrong 
price. It offered to allow Mr D to place the orders again, at the correct price he would have 
received on 27 September if his orders hadnt been cancelled. Mr D complained and asked 
Fidelity to reverse the cancellations and execute the sales at the price it had displayed when 
he placed the orders.
When the complaint was referred to us, Mr D also said he wanted compensation for the 
anxiety hed been caused. Fidelity offered to pay him £50. But it didnt agree to place the 
orders at the price displayed on 26 September, because this price was wrong.
Our investigator concluded Fidelitys offer of £50 was fair.
Mr D didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Fidelity should have internal systems and controls in place to prevent wrong prices being 
displayed.
Fidelitys terms say it accepts no liability for failure to carry out any Electronic Order 
which you place using the Electronic Dealing Facility unless you can show that you have 
received a reference number and an accurate confirmation of such Electronic Order. He 
says he received confirmation of his orders, so Fidelity should be liable for their 
completion.
Hes spent time dealing with this matter and has been caused distress. He wont accept 
less than £15,000 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In September 2022, F was subject to a merger and was re-opened for dealing on 
26 September.
Fidelity relies on a third party to supply its pricing information. On 26 September incorrect 
pricing information was received and F was showing at a notional price of £100. This was a 
significant increase from the correct price.
Mr D has quoted from Fidelitys terms and says that Fidelity must honour the orders because 
he received confirmation of the orders. But hed placed orders to sell a fund, so he received 
a receipt for his instructions, rather than confirmation that the orders had been placed. 
Fidelitys terms explain that it doesnt accept responsibility for inaccurate data provided by 
third parties. It says:
Fidelity does not accept any responsibility and will not be liable for the inaccuracy or 
incompleteness of any information received by you or by Fidelity through the Service which 
.. originates from information obtained from third parties (other than such inaccuracy or 
incompleteness arising as a result of Fidelitys negligence, fraud or wilful default)
Im satisfied that Fidelity wasnt negligent here. It reasonably relied on pricing information 
from a third party. It identified, within a reasonable time period, that the pricing information 
for F was wrong. So Im satisfied it had appropriate systems and controls in place to identify 
the error.
Knowing Mr D would not receive anywhere near the price hed seen when he placed the 
orders, I think it acted reasonably in cancelling the orders and contacting Mr D to tell him 
what had happened.
Even though the agreement terms say that Fidelity isnt liable for the inaccurate price, I need 
to decide what is fair and reasonable. I dont think its fair or reasonable that Mr D should 
receive a price for his holding of F units which he reasonably must have known was wrong 
when he placed the sale orders because it was so much higher than the true price. And that 
price was never available.
I think Fidelity treated him fairly by recognising that he may have taken the decision to sell 
based on the incorrect price and offering him around a month in which to decide if he wanted 
to place the orders again at the price he should have been offered if the display was 
accurate - £2.81 (rather than £100).
After the complaint was referred to this service, Fidelity recognised that the mistake in the 
price display and the cancellation of the orders will have caused Mr D some upset, and it 
offered to pay him £50. I appreciate Mr D would like considerably more than this. But I find 
the sum offered to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr D £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman