DRN-2965905
The complaint
Mr R complains about an investment savings plan with life cover that he signed up for in 
1979. The company running the plan has changed over the years, with Phoenix Life Limited 
now responsible for answering Mr Rs complaint. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr R complained to Phoenix Life. In summary, he was unhappy that:
Phoenix Life wouldnt give him a guaranteed value for the plan;
a deduction would be made from the plans proceeds to pay Phoenix Lifes capital 
gains tax; 
a few different companies were involved in running the plan; and 
the original documents from when the plan was set up were no longer available.
In response, Phoenix Life explained to Mr R why they felt their service was reasonable. In 
summary, they explained:
the value of the investment changed constantly, so a value could only be given when 
Mr R confirmed he wanted to end the plan; 
the capital gains tax had been explained in the initial terms for the product; 
the companies managing the product had changed over the years because of 
various mergers and take-overs; and 
their archive didnt go back as far as 1979, so they didnt have the original documents 
for the plan.
Unhappy with this response, Mr R came to us. Our investigator looked at the two positions, 
and decided she agreed with Phoenix Life  the service was reasonable on all of the points 
Mr R had raised, for the same reasons theyd already explained. 
Mr R disagreed, and raised further enquiries with Phoenix Life. Hes been contacting them 
regularly throughout 2021 seeking information. He feels hes not had the answers he needs 
to be able to respond to our investigation fully. 
Within that contact, a new issue emerged. In December 2020, Phoenix Life realised Mr Rs 
40-year investment should have matured in 2019. They wrote to Mr R, saying he would need 
to complete some forms to claim the value the investment had held on September 2019.This 
 they explained  was more than the investment currently held, and more than it would 
have held on its actual maturity date in June 2019. Phoenix Life also said theyd calculate 
and add interest from the policy end date to the date the payment was made.
Mr R highlighted his dissatisfaction with this to us, saying it showed a lack of care was being 
taken with his investment. But our investigator considered Phoenix Lifes handling of the 
matter, and said she felt nothing further was needed from them to put it right. 
Unresolved, this complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about a relatively old savings plan, put in place before these products 
became regulated by any authority. That means there were limited rules about what a 
business needed to do when they set the product up. 
For example, there werent any rules back in 1979 about what documents needed to be 
produced, or how long they needed to be kept. I dont think its fair to try to retrospectively 
set up a rule or standard now, over 40 years later. 
So when Phoenix Life say they cant send Mr R the documents from when the savings plan 
was first set up, I dont think theyre treating him unfairly, or unreasonably. It simply reflects 
that back in 1979, there was no requirement for them to keep documents that long. 
I can appreciate Mr R questions why money from his plan should go towards paying Phoenix 
Lifes capital gains tax bill. But I can see the plan has always said it would do that. And some 
of the previous complaint correspondence  from 2005  gave a good explanation for why. 
It seems to be that while Mr R has units in the plan, the actual investments are owned by the 
business providing the plan. So the business makes a gain when those investments do well, 
and pays a tax on that gain. The gain is passed on to Mr R through the value of his units. 
The tax is passed on in the form of the deduction made when Mr Rs plan is cashed in. 
More simply, Phoenix Life are doing what the original terms for the plan always said would 
be done. I find thats reasonable. By telling Mr R what would be done when he took out the 
plan, he was able to make an informed choice about whether to accept that process. Having 
accepted it, I think its fair those terms are applied now to Mr Rs plan. 
The time thats passed also comes into play on the complaint about the changes to the 
businesses running the plan. Those sorts of changes reflect that ways of doing business 
change over time. I can see Phoenix Life gave clear explanations of the change in company 
structure to Mr R in their more recent complaint responses, so I wont repeat those here. 
Its not for me to say how a business should be run, or what mergers and acquisitions they 
can and cant make. The question for me is whether the service provided to Mr R has been 
fair and reasonable during any changes. 
Mr Rs plan looks to have been passed from one business to the next without any loss to its 
value. Hes continued to have someone to contact about the plan. And he appears to have 
continued to receive statements about the plan. I cant see that would have been much 
different, even if the same company had continued to run the plan from 1979 to date. Thats 
all consistent with the service being reasonable.
But there has been one issue that I can see with the service provided. It comes into Mr Rs 
complaint about wanting a guaranteed value for this plan before he cashed it in. Phoenix Life 
seem to have told him that wasnt possible. 
I can understand why, given the value of the plan was linked to the value of various 
investments. The value of the investments could change  on a daily basis in the case of 
stocks and shares. So the value of Mr Rs plan could change just as frequently.But from June 2019 Phoenix Life should have been able to tell Mr R the value his plan had 
reached on maturity.  
With that said, Ive made note of what Phoenix Life said theyd do, when they realised the 
mistake. Their letter in December 2020 treated Mr R reasonably, because it was giving him a 
better value for his plan than he would have got if it had correctly concluded on the maturity 
date. And the offer of interest up to the time the value was paid fairly accounts for Mr R not 
being able to do something else with the money during that time. 
So  although the service wasnt initially completely fair and reasonable  Phoenix Life have 
done enough to put that right. I wont be telling them to do anything else, for that reason. 
Ive thought about whether there should also be some compensation for the upset that 
mistake caused. But Mr Rs unhappiness here comes more from issues where Ive found 
Phoenix Life have acted reasonably. I feel that even if the mistake Ive seen hadnt been 
made, Mr R would probably have been just as unhappy. 
I can appreciate Mr R feels he needed more information from Phoenix Life before he could 
fully argue his case to us. But I find the issues he now wants to bring in to his complaint go 
beyond the scope of what I  as an ombudsman  am here to do. 
We resolve complaints, based on what we think is fair and reasonable. Were not regulators 
setting rules for businesses. And wed be wrong to draw out general conclusions about how 
a business or product is run from looking at an individual customers experience.
Instead, Ive considered the specific complaint Mr R brought to us, and Phoenix Lifes 
response. Ive considered the facts as I can see them of the situation. And Ive generally 
considered the various laws, best practice, and regulations that have applied to this sort of 
product over the years. 
Having done so  and for the reasons Ive set out above  I find Phoenix Life dont need to 
do anything more here to resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman