DRN-2840843
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with a foreign 
currency transaction.
What happened
Mr D says he tried to transfer £30,000 from his Halifax account to his Sterling (GBP) account 
in Turkey. He says Halifax transferred the money in Turkish Lira (TRY) which meant the 
transaction was rejected and the money paid back to his Halifax account. Mr D says he 
received back £29,132 which meant he lost £868 which he would like Halifax to refund. He 
also says he saw the Turkish flag symbol when making the transaction and clicked on that 
as the payment was being made to Turkey.
Halifax says Mr D made the transaction online and he selected the currency. It says the 
Turkish bank rejected the money as it was in the wrong currency and sent it back. Halifax 
says it converted the money back to GBP and that resulted in the difference. It says it was 
Mr Ds mistake but accepts it gave incorrect information during a telephone call and has paid 
£50 compensation.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and says Halifax should have told him it was converting the 
money back to GBP and he could have sent the money to a different TRY account.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Mr D selected the currency and was 
responsible for what took place. The investigator thought Halifax had no choice in the 
circumstances but to convert the money back to GBP and thought the £50 compensation 
appropriate.
Mr D doesnt accept that view and says he thought he made the payment in GBP and says 
Halifaxs systems defaulted to TRY despite him trying to change back to GBP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Halifaxs records and am satisfied that Mr D made and carried out the 
transaction on 8 June 2020. This was not a transaction carried out for example in a Halifax 
branch, but an online transaction made by Mr D. So, Im satisfied that Mr D selected the 
currency and has told us that he selected the Turkish flag symbol. I appreciate Mr D says 
that was because he thought that was for the payment destination, but I think in doing so Mr 
D changed the currency to TRY. I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for that mistake and 
think that Mr D was responsible for what took place.
There is no dispute here that the receiving bank sent the money back to Halifax. I dont think 
Halifax made a mistake by converting the money back to GBP and dont think there could 
have been any other way to credit Mr Ds account. I appreciate Mr D says Halifax should 
have told him what was going on, but I dont think it was under any duty to do so. And acted 
fairly by refunding the money. I find that any exchange rate loss was due to the original 
mistake and that Halifax didnt make a mistake by crediting the amount it did to Mr Ds 
account.
I appreciate Mr D now says the online transaction process automatically defaulted to 
sending the money in TRY. Halifax says Mr D could have used whatever currency he 
wanted, and its systems were not at fault. I think that is significantly different to what Mr D 
told us at the start of the complaint, that he selected the Turkish flag symbol. And if Mr D 
noticed the currency was in TRY but couldnt change it then I would have expected him to 
either ask Halifax for advice or attend a branch to make the correct transaction.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr D authorised and made this transaction in TRY and that Halifax 
wasnt responsible for that decision. I find any exchange rate loss was because of the 
original mistake and that it would be unfair to order Halifax to refund that difference. Im 
satisfied the £50 compensation fair and reasonable for Halifax giving Mr D incorrect 
information when he called and can see in any event Mr D doesnt question that award for 
that part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman