DRN-1864812
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited trading as Nutmeg refused to 
accept a transfer in of his defined benefit pension and wouldnt provide reasons for the 
refusal.
What happened
Mr D said he was entitled to a transfer from his former employers public sector pension 
scheme. Itd confirmed he could transfer this to another defined benefit or defined 
contribution pension scheme. He complained because he said his understanding was that 
he could transfer anywhere he liked. He was an existing Nutmeg customer and felt he 
deserved an answer as to the reason for the refusal to accept his transfer in, other than 
riskiness. If he couldnt transfer to Nutmeg, hed need to find another provider which would 
take time and effort. Also, if he didnt make a transfer within three months his former scheme 
would refund his employee contributions and retain the employer contributions. He said he 
would suffer a loss of about £4,000 plus interest. 
Nutmeg said it took a risk-based approach to accepting pension transfers. It wasnt prepared 
to divulge details of its risk criteria. As it was within its right to refuse the transfer it didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr D remained unhappy and said Nutmeg wasnt really making any effort on his behalf or 
helping him understand the reasons even in broad terms. There was a disparity between its 
public profile and the reality. He also said he wanted a reply by phone and not in writing, 
which is what was provided.
The investigator thought Nutmeg had behaved fairly. She said she had seen documents 
from the company that administered Nutmeg transfers. This made clear that it wouldnt 
accept transfers from public sector pension schemes whether they had more or less than 
two years of service. It didnt give reason for this position. However, it didnt need to give 
reasons and this service couldnt direct it to do so nor direct it to accept the transfer. 
However, she initially thought it had taken Nutmeg too long to reply as the transfer company 
notified it in mid-June the transfer couldnt go ahead but Nutmeg didnt tell Mr D until early 
August. She proposed an award of £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D didnt think this was right and left him with no resolution to the problem. He said he had 
understood the decision was based on risk but couldnt understand what risk Nutmeg would 
be taking.
Nutmeg didnt agree. It said it had contacted Mr D on the same day it was notified the 
transfer wouldnt be accepted and it provided evidence to support this. It said that in late 
June Mr D contacted it to say he would send necessary papers which were received by the 
transfer provider in late July. Nutmeg didnt reply and nor did the transfer provider as it had 
already rejected the transfer request. When Mr D called in early August it repeated the 
refusal to accept the transfer. In the light of the information that Nutmeg had advised Mr D 
that the transfer request would be cancelled the investigator changed her view and withdrew 
the proposed award of £150.
Mr D didnt agree. He said there was a justice issue. He didnt think it was fair that his right to 
make a transfer could be refused without being given reasons. At the time of his request 
Nutmeg had no public facing information that it wouldnt accept transfers from public sector 
schemes. He said he wouldnt have signed up with Nutmeg to consolidate all his pensions 
had he known of this policy. He also said that the transfer provider sat behind other similar 
companies. This meant his choice was limited as he would likely get the same reply from 
other providers. He wanted a phone call to explain the reasons, £250 for distress and 
inconvenience and confirmation that when he transferred out Nutmeg fees would be waived. 
He felt he had suffered poor customer support, stress, frustration and wasted time. These 
were not in line with what should be reasonable to expect from a financial services company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration. He had the right to take a transfer of a cash transfer sum 
from a defined benefit scheme that enabled him to capture the benefit of employer 
contributions even though he had less than two years pensionable service. This was an 
alternative to taking a refund of his contributions.
But as has been explained, having a right to take a transfer from a scheme doesnt impose 
an obligation on a receiving scheme to accept that transfer and the law doesnt require that. 
Nor does it require provision of reasons for refusal. So Nutmeg wasnt under any legal 
obligation to accept the transfer nor to provide reasons why it wouldnt accept the transfer in. 
I can understand that Mr D felt that the transfer was low risk as it was a cash transfer sum 
and not a cash equivalent transfer value of a deferred pension. But that didnt make Nutmeg 
obliged to accept the transfer even if the risk was different.
I have seen correspondence between the parties. From this it seems to me that Mr D was 
notified the transfer wouldnt be accepted in a timely fashion.  
I have considered that Mr D has other pensions with Nutmeg and says he mightve chosen a 
different provider had he been aware they wouldnt accept his public sector transfer. 
But Nutmeg said that when Mr D opened his account in November 2018, he was sent a 
welcome pack with Key Features. This included general information that said he couldnt 
transfer from defined benefit schemes also known as final salary schemes.
I am satisfied that this is broad enough to cover a transfer where there is less than two years 
pensionable service as was the case here. I say that because it was a transfer from a 
defined benefit scheme even if the transfer was a cash transfer sum and not a cash 
equivalent transfer value of a deferred pension that carried defined benefit rights.
While there was no express reference to public sector schemes there is reference to defined 
benefit and final salary which would cover such sections within a public sector scheme 
(whether they are final salary or career average sections).
Nutmeg has also confirmed that there are no exit charges should Mr D transfer out. 
There is no suggestion that Mr D told Nutmeg in advance of opening this account that he 
was relying on the ability to transfer in from a defined benefit pension. So, it doesnt seem he 
relied on any representation that he could transfer from this type of pension. Further there 
was information available that wouldve given him cause to question whether such a transfer 
would be possible. Even if Mr D hadnt received or read and understood this information, I dont think it wouldve 
made a difference. I say that because Nutmeg wasnt under any obligation to accept a 
transfer from any scheme so he couldnt reasonably assume that every pension transfer 
would be accepted. So, while it is unfortunate that Mr D may need to find another provider 
for this transfer and potentially his other pension already held by Nutmeg, I dont think 
Nutmeg has acted unfairly.
My final decision
So, for the reasons given I dont think Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited trading as 
Nutmeg have acted unfairly and I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman