DRN-4064008
The complaint
Mr M complains about his overdraft with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr M used to have a current account with Barclays, with an overdraft limit of £200. On 30 
November 2020 his account balance was £199.18 overdrawn. He also had a Barclays 
insurance policy for his mobile phone, for which he was paying £14.50 a month. On 
1 December 2020 this payment was debited from his current account, causing the balance 
to exceed his overdraft limit. This was reported to the credit reference agencies, and it now 
appears on his credit file.
Mr M complains that this payment should not have been allowed to be debited from his 
account. Instead, he says Barclays should have cancelled the insurance policy, since he 
could no longer afford to make the payments. That way, his credit file would not have been 
spoiled and he would not have incurred any unauthorised overdraft charges.
Thereafter, Mr Ms account remained in an unauthorised overdraft, and in early 2021 his 
salary stopped being paid into his account. The overdraft increased over time as fees were 
charged. He says he didnt realise that his account was in excess of the limit or that charges 
were being incurred. There is a dispute about whether Barclays wrote to tell him about this.
Finally, towards the end of 2021, Barclays closed Mr Ms current account, recorded a default 
on his credit file, and cancelled the insurance policy. The default balance was £321.43.
Mr M complained to Barclays, and subsequently to our service. He said he was willing to 
repay the authorised overdraft balance of £199.18, but not a penny more. He asked for all of 
the relevant adverse data to be removed from his credit file, and for compensation for his 
inconvenience.
Barclays said that there was no reason why the monthly payment should not have been 
debited from Mr Ms account, and it had not been entitled to unilaterally cancel the insurance 
policy instead. If Mr M didnt want the insurance policy any more, then it had been his own 
responsibility to ask for it to be cancelled; Barclays would not do that (except when a 
customer breached its terms and conditions). Barclays said it had written to Mr M about his 
overdraft several times in 2021, and had sent him a text message, but had received no reply. 
It added that Mr M would have been aware of his account balance because he had 
frequently been logging into his online banking account during this period, so he would have 
seen it. Therefore the overdraft and the default had been properly and accurately recorded 
on his credit file.
Our investigator agreed with Barclays. She said that she had seen copies of the banks 
letters to Mr M about the overdraft and that they had been correctly addressed (and she 
shared these letters with him). She said there was no evidence that the text message had 
not been delivered to Mr M. She said that it had been Mr Ms responsibility to cancel the 
insurance policy. She thought that he must have known about the overdraft balance, and the 
charges, because he had been logging onto his account online, so he would have seen 
them. She concluded that there were no grounds to remove the overdraft or the default from 
Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this case, for the same reasons as the investigator gave.
It was not for Barclays to unilaterally decide that Mr M could not afford his insurance policy 
and to cancel it for him. If Mr M could not afford it, then it was his responsibility to cancel it, 
and to tell the bank that he was in financial difficulties. The bank did not know that, because 
on 13 December 2020 he had told the bank that he had returned to work (after being 
furloughed during the covid lockdown) and was planning to pay off the overdraft in the new 
year; as far as the bank knew, he had a good disposable income.
I accept that Mr M did not realise that the monthly payment would still be taken from his 
account even if that meant the account balance exceeded the overdraft limit. But he must 
have known that this had happened soon afterwards, because he continued to log into his 
account, and so I think he would have seen the new balance, and the fees which had been 
charged. I have seen the banks audit logs which show that he logged onto his account from 
his mobile phone over 200 times between March and July 2021.
I have seen the letters the bank sent to Mr M, and they have the correct address on them. 
I accept that they were sent. I could accept that one was not delivered, but not all of them. 
And I have seen screenshots from the banks systems showing that a text message was 
sent to his phone, telling him that he was still making payments on his insurance policy.
The significance of all this is twofold. Firstly, even though Mr M didnt realise his account 
balance was going to exceed the overdraft limit, once he did know  and he must have 
known soon afterwards  he did nothing about it. He didnt get in touch with the bank to 
discuss it or to make a payment. So there is nothing wrong, unfair or inaccurate about the 
overdraft marker appearing on his credit file. It was a true reflection of how he had managed 
his debt.
Secondly, the bank gave him multiple opportunities to resolve the matter before taking the 
step of defaulting his account. So there is nothing wrong with the default marker either.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman