DRN-3074387
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander), trading as Mazda
Financial Services, didnt allow him to make a partial repayment towards a finance
agreement he had with them.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion; please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant legislation says that if a false statement of fact is made, and if that false
statement of fact leads a consumer to enter into an agreement they would not otherwise
have entered into, I could consider the agreement had been misrepresented and ask the
business to put things right.
The finance agreement stated:
 
 2.7 You may repay all amounts payable by you under this agreement early, either in part or
in full, by giving notice
Santander havent refused to accept payments against the debt, but the agreement included
a final balloon payment and theyve not been prepared to accept partial repayments towards
that.
But the agreement said Mr P could repay all amounts in part or in full. So, I think a false
statement of fact was made. And I think Mr P was relying on being able to make that
overpayment as I can see he tried to do so after only a few days of the agreement going live.
I think its likely he wouldnt have entered the agreement had there not been a provision to
allow overpayments, so I think the agreement was misrepresented to Mr P.
Santander have argued that they are not able to keep money in credit towards the future
balloon payment but thats not what Mr P was told when he took out the agreement.
Ive thought about how to put things right for Mr P. Wed usually ask the business to end the
finance agreement and refund any payments the consumer hadnt had benefit from. But that
cant be the case here as Mr P decided to pay off the agreement in full.
I dont think theres been any financial detriment here. The final balloon payment of
£15,646.50 due on this agreement was not subject to any interest charges. The interest was
included in the monthly instalments and Santander were prepared to accept overpayments
against those.
But Mr P has been inconvenienced by these issues. He was led to believe that he could
make payments against the whole of the agreement and when this proved not to be the case
he had had to escalate the matter to this service. In the circumstances I think Santander
should pay him some compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience hes been
caused. Ive considered our published guidelines on how much that should be. Whilst I
understand the matter has been distressing for Mr P Ive not seen any financial impact and I
therefore think Santander should pay him compensation of £200 which is towards the lower
end of our guidance but reflects the reasonable amount of effort thats been put in by Mr P to
resolve this matter.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Santander
Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience
hes experienced.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr P and Santander provided some additional comments for me to consider.
Mr P said he had experienced some financial detriment. He said he had to pay a cash fee to 
pay off the loan with his credit card and had been paying interest on that debt. He also asked 
me to consider completely releasing him from the agreement and putting him back in the 
position he would have been in by allowing him to return the car.  
I asked Mr P to provide some evidence of the charges hed had to pay to settle the debt, but 
he explained that the card account had since been closed and he didnt wish to wait even 
longer and order statements. He asked me to take his claim on face value and explained 
that it was normal for credit cards to charge such fees. I understand Mr Ps frustration at 
needing to provide even more evidence and Im aware this complaint has taken time and 
effort to prepare, but Im afraid that without evidence of any consequential costs I dont think 
it would be fair to ask Santander to refund anything.
Im also not going to be asking Santander to allow him to return the car. I think, as Mr P has 
already paid the agreement off that would be a disproportionate step to take. 
Santander referred me to a recent decision by this service which they said had very similar 
circumstances. They said that in that case we hadnt upheld the complaint or ordered any 
compensation and they questioned how we could reach such different outcomes.
It is important to establish that each case has its own set of circumstances, which makes it 
hard to draw direct comparisons. I havent reviewed the assessment they have provided but 
there may be several nuances which led to a different outcome. Additionally, the example Santander provided is an initial assessment. As an ombudsman I am able to review the 
information and reach my own decision, which may differ from an investigators. The 
assessment Santander have provided has not yet been reviewed by an ombudsman and 
although it now seems unlikely, the view of the investigator may be overturned, as has been 
the case here, if the consumer decides to escalate the complaint.
Putting things right
So, Ive not seen any additional information that has led me to change my provisional 
decision and that provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc to pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience
hes experienced.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman