DRN-4266923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) have unfairly declined a claim 
under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to HDI or Mr and Mrs L includes any respective agents or representatives. Ill 
largely refer to Mr L as he has led the complaint with this Service.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
In September 2022, Mr Ls tooth was damaged while dining in a restaurant 
(Company A) from the impact of an alleged foreign item or inherent issue within 
some bread. He stated Company As staff members apologised and took 
responsibility for it. Mr L retained the tooth in question but not the offending item.
Mr L incurred treatment costs of around £735. He subsequently contacted HDI to 
make a claim against Company A for the incident.
In October 2022, HDI considered the claim and obtained a legal opinion on its 
prospects. The legal opinion (S) said the prospects were below 50% and that the 
onus was on Mr L to prove a breach of duty and/or that bread or anything within it 
was defective. As the bread/item had not been retained, it said this would be 
extremely difficult to evidence. 
So HDI declined the claim but directed Mr L to seek independent counsel advice if he 
disagreed  and if in doing so he could show there were reasonable prospects it 
would reconsider. HDI also said the claim would not be proportionate to pursue as 
the costs incurred would likely exceed the sum sought.
One of our Investigators looked at what happened and declined the claim. She said 
HDIs legal opinion was clear and well-reasoned, and Mr L had provided no 
conflicting opinion. So, she was satisfied it was fair for HDI to rely on S legal advice 
when declining the claim.
Mr L disagreed, saying:
oHDIs agent had no intention to pay his claim and acted in a way to prevent it.
oHe was effectively being penalised for not making a larger claim given its 
comments around proportionality. 
oHDI had failed to engage with his complaint or respond to a letter from 
October 2022.
oHDIs position should entitle him to a proportion of the claim if this is below 
51%. And that the lack of engagement with either Company A or Mr Ls own 
dentist indicated a breach in its duty of care.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said LEI policies 
would not pay out on a pro-rata basis and she was ultimately satisfied HDI had fairly 
followed the advice it was given in line with its policy terms.
Mr L still disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I 
will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. 
This means I wont comment necessarily on everything Mr L has said but I can 
confirm I have read and considered everything provided by both parties when 
determining the outcome that I deem to be fair and reasonable.
In this case, HDI has acknowledged an insured event has taken place under Mr Ls 
policy. So, I dont need to consider that aspect. HDI says the claim is without 50% 
chance of success  which is required under the policy.
Policies of this nature require claims to have reasonable prospects of success  
typically defined as at least 51% and which would recover losses or damages. This 
means if Mr Ls claim was shown to have at least 51% or greater prospects of 
success and would recover his losses or damages then the claim should be covered 
(subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy).
In determining if Mr Ls claim had reasonable prospects, HDI relied on the opinion of 
S. This outlined the potential claim Mr L may be able to make and assessed 
prospects at below 51%. This has been shared with Mr L so I wont repeat it here. 
But Im satisfied this was well reasoned and clear. 
HDI is entitled to rely on the legal advice it is provided with  unless that advice is 
obviously wrong. Ive been given nothing to suggest this is the case.
Following HDIs decline of the claim, Mr L was invited to obtain a conflicting legal 
assessment if he disagreed. He hasnt done so, so I see no reason to consider HDI 
needs to reconsider this matter. 
Mr L has focused on the proportionality aspect of HDIs response. He argues that the 
policy includes an exclusion related to values below £100 not being covered. And as 
a result of the sum hes seeking being above this (at £735) it should not be excluded. 
But whether or not I agree with this doesnt impact the lack of prospects of success 
the claim carries  so this wouldnt change anything even if I agreed with him.
Mr L has also argued that HDI didnt fully review S file or have consent to do so. Ive 
considered this point but in light of the above, even if I was satisfied something had 
gone wrong in the handling Im not satisfied it has any bearing on the legal advice 
that was given by S or HDIs ability to rely on it. So, it hasnt changed my mind.
I understand Mr L feels strongly about this matter and would like HDI to take on 
board the strength of the points hes put across from his own testimony. But simply, 
Im satisfied HDI has considered the legal opinion provided on the likely success of 
the claim and that it was fair for it to rely on it. Mr L also says S told him HDI couldve 
given information to him earlier in the claim. Even if this was the case, Im satisfied 
the claim moved on within a month so this wouldnt lead me to make any additional 
direction or compensation.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman