DRN-4354526
The complaint
Mr H and Ms Y have complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson 
Insurance (Astrenska) unfairly declined their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr H and Ms Y had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Astrenska.
They made a claim for flight costs when their airline cancelled their outbound flight. This 
meant they missed their connecting flights and had to pay for and book new flights. 
Astrenska said they werent covered. Mr H complained and unhappy with Astrenskas 
response, referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Astrenska had done anything 
wrong. It had asked for evidence of the reasons for the flight cancellation which was 
reasonable. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he had specifically bought 
additional cover for flight disruption and so his claim should be paid.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mr H says the cancellation section of the policy applies. But this only applies if a trip 
is cancelled. Mr Hs trip wasnt cancelled, his outbound flight was cancelled by the 
airline. So the appropriate section for cover would be the delay section. 
Astrenska has asked Mr H to provide specific details from the airline about the 
reasons for the flight cancellation so that it can consider whether there is any cover 
under the delay section. The delay section provides specific reasons when the claim 
would be covered. The letter from the airline gives operational as the reason for 
cancellation. Astrenska has said this is vague and it needs something more specific 
which confirms what the operational reason was. I dont think this is unreasonable as 
it needs to check the reasons against the specific events listed in the policy terms 
and conditions.
Mr H suggests that operational reasons were a shortage of crew and this is covered 
under the policy. But I havent seen any evidence that gives this reason so Mr H will 
need to obtain confirmation from the airline and provide it to Astrenska if he wants his 
claim considered further.
Astrenska also provided advice about a claim under EU261 which I think was 
appropriate as his airline cancelled the flight. That claim may or may not be 
successful but Astrenska is only responsible for what is specifically covered under 
the terms of the policy.
Mr H says he purchased additional trip disruption cover and so his claim should be 
covered. Astrenska has said that the additional cover was bought after Mr H knew his 
flight would be cancelled and so his claim wouldnt be covered under this section. Mr 
H says this is incorrect. I have looked at the trip disruption section which only 
provides cover if Mr H is unable to get a refund elsewhere. In addition, it doesnt 
provide cover if the policy was bought knowing that there may be a need to claim. So 
I dont think Astrenska has acted unreasonably so far.
Mr H says he is still waiting for the airline to provide confirmation and the complaint 
should be kept open. The complaint cannot be kept open indefinitely. I have reviewed 
Astrenskas actions up to 24 August 2023 when it responded to our investigator with 
additional information about the policy. If Mr H obtains further information, he should 
provide this to Astrenska to review. If he is unhappy with Astrenkas actions after he 
has provided additional information, he would need to raise a new complaint.
Overall, based on the information Astrenska received, I dont think it has unfairly 
declined the claim. But if Mr H or Ms Y provide additional information, I would expect 
it to review this and respond. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman