DRN-3712626
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled their home 
insurance claim poorly. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr and Mrs Ms home was flooded. They claimed on their Lloyds home 
insurance policy. The insurers contractor undertook some of the work including drying. The 
main refit of the property was settled with a cash payment. Mr and Mrs M used their own 
contractors for the work. They werent happy with various aspects of the how the claim was 
handled by Lloyds  including the amount paid as a cash settlement. 
Lloyds issued a few different responses to Mr and Mrs Ms complaints. It said the cash 
settlement was fair. It accepted it had provided some poor service, referring to delays with 
assessment of damaged contents and mistakes with payments for electricity and cleaning. It 
paid Mr and Mrs M £450 compensation in recognition. 
Lloyds also said it would arrange for some furniture, Mr and Mrs M felt hadnt be cleaned or 
stored correctly, to be restored. It said if restoration wasnt possible it would consider 
replacement. Lloyds paid an additional £200 disturbance allowance. Finally it provided about 
£400 more compensation to recognise further poor service.
In June 2022 our investigator assessed the complaint. She recommended Lloyds reimburse 
Mr and Mrs M £7,000 they paid for replacement kitchen units. She said its approach to the 
furniture was reasonable. And she felt, although Lloyds had made mistakes, the 
compensation it had already paid was sufficient. Mr and Mrs M accepted the assessment. 
However, Lloyds didn't. It objected to reimbursing the cost of the kitchen units  saying it 
wasnt persuaded they had been damaged in the flood. So the complaint was passed to me. 
Mr Ms since set out what would be acceptable to him and Mrs M as a resolution. They 
would like payment of the difference between their own contractors estimate for the repairs 
and Lloyds cash settlement  around £14,000. They want Lloyds to replace the damaged 
furniture (including rugs, carpets and chairs) and additional compensation.   
In October 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require 
Lloyds to pay anything more to settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim. The provisional decisions 
reasoning forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied it in below. I also invited any further 
information or evidence for my consideration before issuing this final decision. Lloyds had 
nothing to add. Mr and Mrs M provided a range of information.  
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds provided. Instead Ive focused on those I 
consider to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
Ive considered if the amount it settled at for the repair works was fair - £34,630 
excluding VAT. Lloyds says it will pay up to an additional £6,926 to cover VAT on 
receipt of valid invoices showing its been paid.
Mr and Mrs M say the settlement is too low. Theyve provided an initial estimate for 
repairs from a contractor they found. It was largely based on Lloyds own schedule of 
work  but with a few extra jobs added. The estimate totalled around £48,000 
exclusive of VAT. Lloyds considered these costings when calculating its proposed 
settlement. Mr and Mrs M have also provided a spreadsheet of their expenditure 
during repairs. This shows total costs of around £51,000. 
Insurers often pay discounted rates to its contractors for repairs. Lloyds seems to 
have applied these when calculating the settlement. When a claim is cash settled at 
the policyholders request, I usually feel its fair for the insurer to apply its contractor 
rates. Otherwise, agreeing to the consumers preference can result in a higher cost to 
the insurer. 
Mr Ms said Lloyds never offered the use of its own contractors for the repairs. Ive 
listened to a call recording, from February 2020, between Mrs M and Lloyds. She 
explains that she insisted to Lloyds loss adjuster that she wanted to use her own 
contractors for the refit. So it seems it was Mr and Mrs Ms choice and preference to 
receive a cash settlement. So I cant say Lloyds decision to cash settle, based on its 
contractor rates, was unfair or unreasonable.
The use of contractor rates explains some of the difference between the settlement 
amount and Mr and Mrs Ms estimate. Lloyds has provided further explanation. It 
deducted costs (around £2,200) from Mr and Mrs Ms estimate for damage it believes 
to pre-exist the flood. This was for repairs to a rear utility room and for investigation 
and repair to a crack in a hall floor. I havent seen anything from Mr and Mrs M to 
persuade me these were claim related. So those deductions seem fair.  
Lloyds also deducted amounts (around £630) for freestanding white goods. These 
were covered by the contents claim settlement  rather than this buildings 
settlement. Lloyds didnt settle £675 given as a cost for removing and replacing a 
boiler. Lloyds say theres nothing to show this to be claim related. Based on what Ive 
seen so far both seem reasonable.
About £4,000 was discounted for estimated cleaning and decontamination costs. 
Lloyds say the costs, according to its provider, would be about £500. It says it paid 
that separately. I havent so far seen anything to persuade me the cleaning costs 
were higher. So again Lloyds deduction seems reasonable. 
Ive considered the incurred expenditure spreadsheet provided by Mr and Mrs M. 
Unfortunately it isnt detailed enough to persuade me Lloyds settlement is too low. 
Costs are largely broken down by trade or supplier rather than individual item or 
repair. It does include some set costs for the replacement kitchen units - about 
£5,000. Ill consider that separately as it isnt included in either Mr and Mrs Ms 
estimate or Lloyds schedule of works. 
Ignoring the kitchen for now the spreadsheet includes around £46,000 of 
expenditure. That includes an amount for a free-standing washing machine, nearly £2,000 for electricity and £675 for insurance costs. Those items arent appropriate to 
be considered in this settlement of repairs for a buildings claim  with some covered 
by other settlements paid by Lloyds. The spreadsheet seems likely to include costs 
for the non-claim related work referred to above. Whilst the spreadsheet doesnt 
provide any breakdown, there will most likely be some element of VAT  at least for 
the materials provide by high street firms. 
Im excluding the replacement kitchen up to this point, but for the reasons given 
above Im currently not persuaded Lloyds cash settlement was unfair or 
unreasonable. But Ill consider anything new provided in response to this provisional 
decision.  
Lloyds settlement is exclusive of VAT. Its said it will reimburse Mr and Mrs M for 
VAT on receipt of evidence of payment. They have objected to that, saying some of 
their contractors arent VAT registered. However, I feel Lloydss acting fairly. Its 
willing to pay VAT incurred. I wouldnt expect it to pay an amount to cover VAT when 
it hasnt been paid. If Mr and Mrs M they do wish to claim the VAT on any relevant 
expenditure they should get in touch with Lloyds. 
Our investigator felt Lloyds should reimburse Mr and Mrs M the cost of their 
replacement kitchen. I realise this will be disappointing for them, but I dont intend to 
require the insurer to do that. For me to say it should Id need to be persuaded the 
kitchen units most likely were damaged by the flood - or through Lloyds negligence. 
However, having considered evidence I cant say I am. 
Lloyds contractor inspected the property in March 2020 - three or so months after the 
incident. So Id expect any damage to be apparent by then. Their report states no 
noticeable damage to units. It provides a few photos of the units doors. There are no 
obvious signs of water damage. 
Based on that report Lloyds produced a schedule of works. That says the base units 
need to be removed and reinstalled to allow plasterboard to be repaired. In the same 
month Mr and Mrs M gave their thoughts on the schedule. They commented on 
various issues. But they didnt raise concern at the plan to reinstate the units rather 
than replace them. If the units were water damaged, Id expect them to have raised 
the issue at that point.  
As set out above, in May 2020, a contractor provided an estimate for Mr and Mrs M. 
This seems to be largely based on Lloyds schedule or works. There are a few items 
added or amended. But again theres no reference to damage to, or a need to 
replace, the kitchen units. 
If they were damaged by the flood, I think its likely at least one of those involved in 
the claim up to this point (Lloyds contractor, Mr and Mrs M and their own contractor) 
to have raised the matter. In addition theres a photo, dated June 2020, of the base 
units without their doors. Again I cant see any obvious signs of water damage. 
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs M have said about the kitchen, but based on 
what Ive seen Im not currently persuaded it was damaged by the flood. So I 
currently dont intend to require Lloyds to reimburse the kitchen replacement costs. 
Mr and Mrs M have asked that Lloyds replace various items of furniture  including 
sofas and rugs. They werent happy with their condition when returned from storage. 
I can see Lloyds offered to try to restore these items. It said if thats not possible it 
would consider replacing them. Its fair for Lloyds to get a chance to restore the items first, So I think its acting reasonably. Unfortunately Mr and Mrs M dont seem to have 
taken the offer. That means I wont be requiring Lloyds to do anything differently 
here.   
Mr and Mrs M have reported Lloyds handling of the claim has caused them a great 
deal of unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Its accepted it made mistakes. Its 
apologised and paid various amounts of compensation at different stages. Having 
considered the matter I agree it has caused Mr and Mrs M unnecessary difficulty. But 
overall its paid them enough compensation to recognise the impact of whats gone 
wrong. So I dont intend to require it to pay anything extra. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent addressed here everything Mr and Mrs M provided in response to my provisional 
decision. Ive focused on the main issues and information. But I would like to reassure them I 
have considered everything provided. 
Mr M objected to my position that it was fair for Lloyds to have cash settled the claim based 
on its contractor rates. I reached that conclusion with reference to a call recording, from 
February 2020, in which Mrs M explained her insistence on using their own local contractors.  
Mr M says he instructed the loss adjuster, in February 2020, to deal only with him - because 
of Mrs Ms health. He seems to be saying as a result Lloyds should have offered the use of 
its own contractors  rather than provide a cash settlement. But in the call Mrs M says she 
insisted from the very start on using her own contractors. So it seems she made clear her 
preference to use her own contractors before Mr Ms instruction to the loss adjuster. That 
means I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly by settling in line with Mrs Ms stated preference.  So 
I still cant say it was unreasonable for Lloyds to cash settle the claim using contractor rates.   
Regarding the kitchen units, Mr M provided a breakdown of other items damaged in the 
same area of the property. He says it demonstrates the probability of the units also being 
damaged. Mr M also explained that his contractor confirmed, when inspecting the property, 
that the units werent fit to be reinstalled. Ive considered his latest comments, but Im still 
more persuaded by the contemporary evidence discussed in my provisional decision. So 
unfortunately for Mr and Mrs M Im not going to require Lloyds to reimburse the kitchen units 
costs. 
Mr M provided a range of arguments and information to support his position that the overall 
settlement was too low. Ive considered everything he said, including that they have spent 
almost £50,000 so far, with work still to do. But when the various factors including contractor 
rates, deductions for various aspects like pre-existing damage or kitchen units and the VAT 
issue are considered, Im still not persuaded Lloyds settlement was unfair.     
I still think its reasonable for Lloyds to be given the opportunity to try to restore the rugs and 
sofas before replacing them. It seems from Mr Ms latest comments that hes arranged with 
Lloyds for its contractor to collect the items. If they cant be adequately restored, then Id 
expect the insurer to replace in an appropriate way as its suggested it will.  
Mr and Mrs M said the compensation offered so far isnt enough to recognise the impact of 
Lloyds contractors poor handling of the claim. Ive considered everything they have said, 
including the impact on health and lifestyle. But I still feel the compensation already paid is 
enough. So Im not going to require Lloyds to pay anything extra.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Lloyds to pay anything extra to Mr and Mrs M or 
to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman