DRN-1695622
 
 The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) didnt do enough to help 
them when they had difficulty maintaining their mortgage payments. Theyd like it to switch 
the mortgage to interest only payments and, if possible, extend the mortgage term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with TMB in 2004. The mortgage 
was switched to a part interest only/part capital repayment basis in 2013. Mr and Mrs B 
werent able to maintain monthly payments and have significant arrears. Mr and Mrs B are 
now living in the property and say moving would affect Mr Bs health.
Mr and Mrs B say they can afford to make interest only payments, but not more than this. 
They say TMB declined to switch the mortgage to interest only payments and didnt offer 
other options to support them. Instead, it started action to take possession of the property. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr and Mrs B 
hadnt shown they have a credible strategy to repay the mortgage. It wasnt in their best 
interests to extend the term if they still couldnt repay the mortgage. It might be more difficult 
for them to move in future and theyd have paid more interest in the meantime. He said he 
wouldnt require TMB to offer an extension or to accept interest only payments.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said TMB knew they lived at the property and it hadnt 
engaged constructively with them. They didnt consider their repayment strategy to be 
speculative. And they asked why TMB wouldnt offer an interest only retirement mortgage. 
TMB said there was a hold on all possession activity, as requested by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. It said it will continue to follow 
Government and FCA guidance. Once this is over, if Mr and Mrs B want to sell the property 
it will consider a sale of property grace period once the property is on the market.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage in 2004 of about £204,000. They 
said they would repay the mortgage by selling the property. The term expired in 2013. 
 Mr and Mrs B wrote to TMB in November 2012 saying theyd moved into the property and 
were renovating it. They asked to extend the mortgage term as when we do not live in it [the 
property] is ideal to let out. 
In early 2013 Mr and Mrs B asked to extend the mortgage. They didnt want to sell the 
property at that time due to market conditions. It was agreed that the term would be 
extended to July 2026 and most of the mortgage would be switched to a capital repayment 
basis. Mr and Mrs B said the part of the mortgage that remained on interest only (about 
£59,000) would be repaid by the sale of the property. TMB says it assessed the monthly 
payments as affordable.  
Mr and Mrs B were unable to maintain monthly payments from late 2013. They say this was 
because Mr B became seriously unwell. The mortgage has been in arrears since late 2013 
and the balance owed has increased from £203,000 to about £236,000. 
Mr and Mrs B want TMB to add their arrears to the mortgage, accept interest only payments 
and extend the term for 15 years. Alternatively, theyd like it to provide an interest only 
retirement or lifetime mortgage. 
The rules of mortgage regulation dont apply in the same way to unregulated buy-to-let 
mortgages as compared to regulated residential mortgages. Mr and Mrs B told TMB theyd 
moved into the property in late 2012. I havent seen anything to suggest TMB consented to 
this or agreed to it as a permanent arrangement. While TMB was aware that Mr and Mrs B 
lived at the property, this doesnt mean the rules related to residential mortgages (which 
have more protections for borrowers) automatically apply. I note that in its court applications 
TMB has said that this is a buy-to-let mortgage.
Ive taken into account though that Mr and Mrs B are as a matter of fact living in the property. 
And Mr B has had health problems for some time. While I dont think its necessarily the case 
that TMB had to comply with the FCAs rules for regulated residential mortgages here, Ive 
considered whether the outcome would be different if it had. I dont think it would be. This is 
because TMB would have to take into account whether extending the mortgage on an 
interest only basis is in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests. 
Mr and Mrs B want to stay in the property. Mr B has provided a letter from his doctor 
describing his health problems and that staying in the property would be better for his health. 
But there are other matters here to take into account in considering whats in their best 
interests.
Mr and Mrs B are in a difficult position. TMB has already extended the mortgage term. They 
didnt maintain the monthly payments they agreed to in 2013  which would have reduced 
the balance owed. In fact, the balance has increased. Mr B now works part time and 
receives a pension. Mr and Mrs Bs income isnt enough for them to include repayments of 
capital or arrears in their monthly payments.
Mr and Mrs B explained their plans for repaying the mortgage. They have two other buy-to-
let properties, both with interest only mortgages. They say these properties are only worth 
about the same as the outstanding mortgages. They hope there will be equity in these 
properties in the future, and in the meantime they receive an income from letting them out. 
Mr and Mrs B say they hope to inherit funds from older relatives. And they have a legal 
action to recover funds they say were stolen from them. 
I think theres a lot of uncertainty with Mr and Mrs Bs repayment strategies, in terms of 
timing and whether they will provide enough money to repay the TMB mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B  say they havent been able to re-mortgage due to the adverse information 
TMB recorded on their credit files (presumably about their mortgage arrears). Its likely 
theyd have difficulty meeting affordability criteria for a repayment or interest only mortgage. 
Its not clear if Mr and Mrs B have investigated whether they could take out a lifetime 
mortgage with another provider, or if theres enough equity in their property for this. They 
could take independent financial advice about this. As TMB says it doesnt offer lifetime 
mortgages, I cant reasonably require it to offer this to Mr and Mrs B.Mr and Mrs B say the property value is about £265,000. On this basis, theyll be able to 
repay the mortgage if they sell the property. Mr and Mrs B have said that their mortgage is 
more expensive than the rental value of the property, which suggests they could rent a 
similar property at less cost than their mortgage.
If I require TMB to extend the mortgage and accept interest only payments Mr and Mrs B 
would have to repay the balance at a later date. I dont think they have a sufficiently certain 
repayment strategy for this to be reasonable. If Mr and Mrs B continue to have problems 
maintaining payments the debt will increase further. And changes in the property market 
could leave them in negative equity. 
I dont think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require TMB to extend the 
mortgage term, offer a new mortgage to Mr and Mrs B or accept interest only payments. I 
dont think this is fair to both parties, or that it would be in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests.
TMB has confirmed it will follow the Government and FCAs guidance related to the 
coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. At the moment, this guidance says lenders shouldnt start 
or re-commence recovery action until November 2020. TMB also said once this is over, Mr 
and Mrs B should contact it about a grace period to sell their property. I think this is fair, in 
the circumstances. Mr and Mrs B should keep TMB updated about the steps theyre taking to 
sell the property or otherwise repay the mortgage.
My final decision
 My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman