DRN-2281697
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd offered credit limit increases on his Aqua credit card, even 
though these werent affordable for him.
What happened
In April 2013 Mr P applied for an Aqua credit card. NewDay opened an account in his name 
with a credit limit of £500, which was increased to £1,250 a few months later. Over the 
following three years his credit limit was increased a further six times, until, by January 2016, 
it was £6,400.
In November 2018 NewDay wrote to Mr P (in line with regulatory requirements) noting that, 
in the previous 18 months, hed paid more in interest, fees and charges than hed repaid 
towards the amount hed borrowed. By February 2019 the account was in arrears; Mr P later 
took out a loan to repay the credit card debt.
He complained to NewDay about the increases in his credit limit. He didnt feel that adequate 
checks had been made before they had been offered to him. He said that further checks 
would have shown he had other borrowing and that he made only minimum payments.
NewDay said in response that it had carried out appropriate checks with credit reference 
agencies and that these didnt reveal any particular cause for concern. The account was 
designed as a low and grow account  where the customer starts with a low credit limit 
which then increases. When Mr P made large payments by taking out other borrowing, it 
wouldnt have known the source of those funds or had any realistic means of finding out. It 
didnt agree that it should have carried out further checks or that it had acted inappropriately.
Mr P complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She noted that in November 2014 the credit limit had been raised from £2,300 to 
£3,050, and so was more than five times the original limit. She felt that NewDay should not 
have made this or any subsequent increases and recommended that it refund all interest 
and charges from that point.
NewDay didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. It had, it said, followed the regulators rules in the checks it made. It was 
unreasonable to expect it to have checked Mr Ps bank statements and it didnt have access 
to as much credit information as it does now. Mr P had managed his account well and hadnt 
shown any signs of financial difficulty or indicated to NewDay that he was finding it difficult to 
manage his account. Once it found out that Mr P was having difficulty meeting his payments, 
it acted positively and sympathetically to try to help  as its required to do.
I reviewed the case and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion, issued a 
provisional decision. I set out below the text of my findings:
When a financial business makes a decision to lend money to a consumer, it should make 
checks ensure that the borrower can afford the repayments without suffering financial 
difficulties as a result. Similar principles apply when a lender is granting a credit facility, 
including making changes to the credit limit on a credit card account.
The checks made should be appropriate and proportionate; generally, that means that the 
larger the facility, the more checks are needed. But what is required will vary from case to 
case.
I accept that NewDay here checked information available from credit reference agencies and 
looked too at the way Mr P had run his credit card account. I accept as well that, whilst there 
were occasional missed payments, these were small in number and not an indication of 
financial difficulty.
The regulators rules say that, when considering an appropriate credit limit on a credit card 
account, the card provider should assume that the cardholder will draw down the full amount 
available at the earliest opportunity and repay it over a reasonable period. The assumption 
of what constitutes a reasonable period should have regard to a typical period and other 
terms of a fixed-rate loan for a similar amount.
In my view, Mr Ps income and expenditure were such that it was likely he would have had 
loans approved for the amount of each credit limit increase, up to and including the increase 
to £6,400 in January 2016. I note that he was in fact able to take out a loan to clear the 
balance on his credit card account.
In my view its significant too that, by increasing Mr Ps credit limit, NewDay was providing 
Mr P with the option of using a facility, rather than providing immediate borrowing. It was 
open to him to decline the increases; even if he didnt do that, he wasnt obliged to use his 
card up to the limit hed been given.
NewDay has pointed out too that Mr P didnt suggest until fairly late that he was struggling to 
repay his credit card debt. As Ive explained, NewDay was under a duty to ensure that he 
could meet his repayment obligations and to carry out checks before increasing the credit 
limit, but I do still think its relevant that there were steps Mr P could have taken to  help 
himself  including declining credit limit increases or telling NewDay if he was having 
difficulty making repayments.
I note as well that Mr P, in bringing his complaint, said that his other financial commitments 
meant that he had to start using his card when he didnt really want to. Of course, that 
wouldnt have been possible  or at least not to the same extent  had he had lower credit 
limits, but it does suggest to me that the increases in the credit limit werent the sole cause of 
his difficulties. Perhaps more importantly though, it suggests that, had NewDay not offered 
increases in Mr Ps credit limit, his overall position l may not have been particularly different.
In conclusion, therefore, Im satisfied that NewDay made appropriate checks before offering 
Mr P increases in his credit limit. It wouldnt be fair to require it to refund interest and charges 
incurred as a result.
I didnt recommend that NewDay do anything further to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Mr P 
replied to say that he didnt accept my provisional conclusions. He said his credit profile ah 
been poor for many years and that checks should have shown he was struggling financially. 
He had various loans and credit cards and had missed payments on phone contracts. The 
increases in the credit limit on his Aqua card only made matters worse.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I havent changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. As I explained, I was satisfied that NewDay had carried out credit checks, but they 
hadnt indicated that it should not increase the credit limit. Of course, credit checks can only 
provide a limited picture of somebodys finances and may not have shown how difficult Mr P 
was finding things, but I dont believe I can fairly hold NewDay responsible for that. 
I remain satisfied that NewDay carried out appropriate checks before increasing Mr Ps 
credit limit. Further, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded 
that his position would have been any worse overall had it not done so. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require NewDay Ltd to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman