DRN-3396166
The complaint
W Ltd, represented by Mr G, complained because Worldpay (UK) Limited increased its fee 
from £19.95 to £100 a month, for the same services.
What happened
From November 2011, W Ltd used Worldpay to collect its online payments. It didnt have a 
card reader or take payments over the phone. The monthly fee was £19.95.
Theres a difference of opinion about what happened next. Worldpay said it sent W Ltd an 
email notification in October 2020, to make it aware of price changes which would come into 
effect on 1 January 2021. W Ltd said it didnt receive this email.
On 1 March 2021, Mr G, for W Ltd, emailed Worldpay to query an invoice which hed just 
received. He said Worldpay seemed to have introduced a monthly fee of £100. He asked for 
confirmation that it really was being charged every month, and asked why such a high 
charge had been introduced.
Worldpay replied that it had notified W Ltd in October 2020 about the new charges from 
January 2021. It said it wasnt able to negotiate a reduction, and said We have been 
required to make these changes to charges and fees on merchants accounts in line with 
adjustments to overall card scheme price adjustments which took effect in 2020 and which 
during the COVID Pandemic, Worldpay has absorbed these increases for a period to date.
Mr G asked for a copy of the notification which Worldpay said it had sent in the previous 
October. When he received this, he complained. Mr G said that fee increase wasnt 
acceptable, and that rules had been brought in to stop banks in various areas profiteering 
and making charges that didnt reflect the costs of providing the service. He asked why 
Worldpays costs of managing W Ltds transactions had increased so much when nothing 
had changed to the way the fees were processed.
In its final response, Worldpay confirmed that it had written to W Ltd in October 2020 to give 
notice of the increase. It said that sections 22.3 and 26.3 of the terms and conditions of the 
Merchant Services Agreement allowed Worldpay to give two months notice of changes, 
during which time W Ltd could cancel the Agreement without additional charge. Worldpay 
said that it understood W Ltds concern at the timing, but even though its own costs had 
increased, it hadnt increased charges during 2020 because it understood its customers may 
have had challenges at that time. It said that card scheme fee changes had come into effect 
in July 2020 but Worldpay had absorbed those until 1 January 2021.
W Ltd, represented by Mr G, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Mr G said that 
Worldpays response to the high increase had been that the terms and conditions allowed it 
to charge what it wanted. He said hed also asked why he was being treated in this way, 
compared to other customers, but was told Worldpay wouldnt disclose what it charged 
others. He also explained that W Ltd used only the automated online system, and didnt 
have a card reader. And Worldpay was still advertising online that its monthly fees were 
£19.95.
W Ltd said that Worldpay knew it would take a considerable amount of time and money to 
change to another provider, but because of the Covid pandemic it couldnt afford the 
development cost, and its IT person was on furlough anyway. W Ltd said it hadnt been 
treated fairly in difficult times.
Our investigator didnt uphold W Ltds complaint. She said she understood the effect of the 
increase in the monthly fee on a small business, especially in the pandemic. She noted that 
W Ltd hadnt disputed that Worldpay had provided notice in October 2020, and quoted the 
relevant sections of the terms and conditions:
22.3 We shall be entitled to vary the provisions of the Agreement from time to time by giving 
you at least two (2) months prior written notice. Such variations may be notified by reference 
to materials available on our website, as set out in clause 26.5. If we make changes to the 
terms and conditions herein affecting your payment services, you shall be entitled to 
terminate the Agreement immediately by providing written notice to us, PROVIDED THAT 
such notice is served upon us within two (2) months of you being notified of the variation. 
Otherwise, you will be deemed to have accepted any variation of the provisions of this 
Agreement two (2) months from being notified of it.
The investigator explained that this service doesnt have the power to tell a business what to 
charge for products, and that its the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which is the 
regulator. The investigator said that we can look at whether a customer has been treated 
fairly, so shed obtained more information from Worldpay about W Ltds complaint that other 
customers were still on the £!9.95 rate. The information sent was commercially sensitive and 
she couldnt share it, but she said there were hundreds of firms which had seen the 
subscription fee rise to £100 a month.
W Ltd replied that unlike other businesses, it would have to recode its system to switch to a 
new provider, and this was a lot of work and would take a couple of years. W Ltd 
commented on the laws about fair advertising, and the fact that there were new insurance 
laws to prevent new customers getting a better deal than existing customers. Mr G asked if 
the investigator would refer W Ltds complaint to the FCA. The investigator replied that she 
appreciated the comment about the insurance market, but the evidence shed seen didnt 
lead her to conclude that another business, operating in exactly the same way as Wizard, 
would be able to pay fees less than £100 a month. She sent G Ltd a link to the FCA website.
My G, on behalf of W Ltd, asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that he wasnt 
satisfied on three points: 
- Worldpay had given the Covid pandemic as its reason for the increase. Mr G asked 
why the fees couldnt revert because the pandemic was subsiding;
- He said that the banking sector had previously applied charges that didnt reflect the 
work it did, and he asked whether this service had investigated that this wasnt 
happening in W Ltds dispute with Worldpay;
- He asked whether W Ltd was being treated fairly in view of Treating Customers Fairly 
regulations, and quoted an FCA consultation paper acknowledging it needed to do 
more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with W Ltd. An increase of over 400% is a very significant rise in monthly costs, 
and Mr G has explained that it would be complex and time-consuming to carry out system 
changes which would enable W Ltd to change to another provider. But I can only consider 
whether or not Worldpay treated W Ltd fairly in the circumstances of the individual complaint 
here. Its the role of the FCA to consider the wider, general, issues around the regulation of 
financial service providers. 
Terms and conditions
First, the terms and conditions which Ive set out above do give Worldpay the power to 
increase fees subject to the relevant notice period. As Ive also set out above, there was 
initially a dispute about whether or not Worldpay sent the email notice of increase in October 
2020. But W Ltd hasnt alleged that the increase was invalid because of a failure to give 
proper notice. In any event, even if Worldpay hadnt sent it, that could only delay the 
inevitable by a short time. The terms and conditions allow Worldpay to change and vary its 
charges and thats what its done here. Its explained why it made that decision to W Ltd and 
in more detail to this service, although its asked us not to share this. I realise that W Ltd 
thinks this is unfair, but having considered everything its said, I have to conclude that this is 
a decision Worldpay is entitled to make.
Whether W Ltd was treated less favourably than similar businesses
Ive also looked at whether Worldpay treated W Ltd fairly, or less favourably than other 
businesses which, as nearly as possible, had the same type of accounts and facilities. 
Worldpay sent us a list of many other named businesses which had also had an increase to 
£100. So I accept that there were other businesses which also received a similar price rise 
and that W Ltd has been treated in the same way as these businesses.
W Ltds points
W Ltd has asked if the price could revert, as Worldpay had given the Covid pandemic, which 
Mr G believed was subsiding, as its reason for the increase. First, its not for this service to 
say what a business can and cant charge. But looking at the correspondence, Worldpays 
explanation, which Ive quoted above, wasnt that the prices were the result of the Covid 
pandemic. It was that the increases were in line with overall card scheme price adjustments 
which took effect in 2020  but with the rider that Worldpay had absorbed the increases for 
while during the Covid pandemic. 
I can see why W Ltd is unhappy with what Worldpay has done here. Ive taken into account 
all that Mr G has said, but many of his concerns are much wider reaching than this service 
can look into. Ultimately, Worldpay has made a commercial decision to increase the price of 
its services for certain customers, including W Ltd. Its explained what W Ltd can do if it 
doesnt wish to continue with the service it provides in light of this.
Conclusions
I do recognise the impact that such a large price rise would have on a small business. But 
Worldpay had the power to implement it under the terms and conditions, and its not open to 
me to look at the wider general issues which W Ltd would like.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman