DRN-3243311
The complaint
Mrs R complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited imposed unfair charges when she returned 
a car after the finance agreement was terminated.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mrs R acquired the car in 2017. It was first registered in September 2013 and so when it was 
returned it was over six years old. The contract she signed states:
Excess charges may also apply if you choose to hand the Vehicle back in a less than 
reasonable state in keeping with its age and mileage (i.e. where the Vehicle has not been 
maintained in line with Manufacturers specification).
In identifying what constitutes damage which goes beyond reasonable wear and tear this 
service and the majority of the industry relies on The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guide. We do so regardless of whether the finance provider is a 
member of the BVRLA.
The guidance is usually used for new cars that have been returned at the end of their first 
finance agreement, so wed mainly use it to consider damage to cars that are four years old 
or less. However, we refer to the guide even if we are considering complaints involving used 
or older cars. 
The guide says that age and mileage are factors which need to be taken into account when 
considering what would be deemed fair wear and tear. This applies to all cars but older cars, 
or cars with higher mileage, might therefore require a slightly different application of the 
guide. This is because its likely the older or higher the mileage of a car the more reasonable 
wear and tear it will likely suffer. For example, a 3-year-old car with high mileage would 
arguably expect to show more signs of wear and tear than a car of the same age but with 
much less miles. A 6-year-old car with average mileage also might expect to show more 
wear and tear than a 3-year-old car with average mileage. So, in cases where the car was 
older and/or with higher mileage we apply a broader approach than whats explicitly set out 
in the BVRLA guidance. 
Its also worth noting that used cars may have already had some minor damage when 
acquired by the consumer. This would have likely impacted the price paid at the time. So this 
is a factor we take into account when making decisions as to what is fair and reasonable.
In this case we have the benefit of detailed photographs taken by Mrs R when she left the 
car with the agent acing for MotoNovo. As is often the case photos do not always provide a 
clear and definitive picture of the level of damage, but these ones are a useful addition to 
those taken by MotoNovos agent.
I am satisfied they were taken at the time she left the car and I am also satisfied that those 
taken by the agent were several days later when the inspection was carried out. There are 
discrepancies, the most obvious one being the marks shown on the drivers door in the 
agents photo which have all the hallmarks of being new. This somewhat undermines the 
value of the inspection report.
Other areas of damage which make up the charge are minor scuffs and dents which I 
consider to be fair wear and tear given the age of the car. For example, there are some 
minor marks on the alloy wheels which I do not consider to be excessive for a car 
approaching seven years old.
MotoNovo has also suggested that because a clear piece of plastic was placed on the 
passenger seat the photograph showing it with some marks should be ignored and the one 
provided by the agent which suggest it is dirtier is to be preferred. I dont consider that to be 
a reasonable inference. One can see the seat quite clearly in Mrs Rs photograph and while 
it is not pristine I do not consider its condition to be unreasonable.
So I consider we have damage which I dont believe was present when she left the car and 
we have minor scuffs and marks which have been charged but which I believe to be the 
result of fair wear and tear. Overall, I consider our investigators conclusion that Mrs R pay 
for the damage which was poorly repaired to be a fair and reasonable conclusion.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should refund most of the charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to the 
difference between the amount Mrs R has paid, £1556.67, and the £368 of charges which I 
believe to be fair. It should also pay annual simple interest at 8% from the day payment was 
made until it is repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman