DRN-2933617
The complaint
Mr S complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited havent treated him fairly when 
cancelling his motor insurance policy.
Another company was involved in this complaint, who Ill call H, but as Advantage are 
responsible for it, Ive mainly referred to them in this decision.
A representative has supported Mr S in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer 
to him in this decision.
What happened
On 30 December 2019, Mr S took out his policy with Advantage. With around one month left 
to go before he was due to renew it in November 2020, he contacted H to ask about 
changing his car with them. During this conversation, he told them his occupation had 
changed. Mr S says he was immediately given seven days notice of cancelling his cover  
with the explanation being his circumstances had changed. Mr S says he was given no 
choice to continue with his cover by paying a higher premium.
So, because of that he lost out on one years no claims bonus  as hed not had any claims 
during the first 11 months of the policy. He said this would have a big impact on him, 
because he only had one year no claims at that point. He was also concerned about having 
to declare hed had an insurance policy cancelled. So, he complained to H.
They replied, explaining Advantage had taken the decision to cancel the policy, so even 
though Mr S would be happy to pay a higher premium, that wasnt something they could 
offer. H did explain as well Mr S didnt need to declare that hed had a policy cancelled when 
taking out new insurance. H added they couldnt be held accountable for cancelling a policy 
after 11 months, as that was Advantages responsibility.
H can act on Advantages behalf for responding to complaints.
Unhappy with this Mr S contacted us and asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so but didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He explained Advantage 
had provided us with their underwriting criteria  which is how theyll decide on what basis to 
insure people, if at all. He said he couldnt share this, as its commercially sensitive, but he 
was satisfied having looked at the information, Advantage didnt offer cover to anyone in 
Mr Ss situation  so they hadnt acted inappropriately by cancelling his policy. He added 
there was a policy term that said they could do this. And although he knew Mr S was very 
unhappy about losing out on the additional years no claims discount, there was no 
guarantee in the remaining month he wouldnt have needed to make a claim.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he found Advantage saying commercial sensitivity was the reason 
for ending cover was a bit of a catch-all phrase  and was spurious. Mr S said a higher 
premium to reflect the risk wasnt even offered and asked why Advantage couldnt just 
clearly explain what the issue was. Mr S also didnt agree on the terms our investigator 
quoted, thinking it was unreasonable and against natural justice.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant policy term in Mr Ss case says:
Our rights to cancel your Policy
We may give you seven days notice of cancellation
We and your Insurer can cancel your Policy at any time by sending the Primary Policyholder 
seven days written notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the 
Policy has been cancelled. We can only do this for one of the following reasons:
A number of terms are then listed, the most relevant in this case being:
Your Insurer is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or other reason
Its a fundamental principle in insurance that insurers can decide who to do business with 
and on what terms  this is known as the risk the insurer is prepared to take. This means 
they can set the relevant policy terms, cost of premiums, or say they arent prepared to cover 
the risk at all.
In Mr Ss case, it seems he made two changes when he contacted H  his car, and his 
employment  and it was following these changes that Advantage cancelled his cover.
Ive seen Advantages underwriting guide. This is the guide they use to determine what risk 
theyre prepared to cover  which includes not covering a risk at all. In Mr Ss case, the 
updated information he gave them in that phone call does mean they wont insure anyone 
with his exact circumstances. So, I cant reasonably say theyve acted incorrectly by 
cancelling his policy as they would have done this for any other customer in these 
circumstances too. And that means Im satisfied Advantage are prevented from insuring him, 
in line with the policy terms.
I do understand Mr Ss frustration with Advantage not giving him a clear answer as to why 
theyre no longer prepared to insure him. But theyve said this is for commercially sensitive 
reasons. I dont think this is an unreasonable position to take and, again, I think theyd take 
this position with anyone in Mr Ss circumstances  as any information they give out could be 
used in an inappropriate way.
I accept this will be a very unsatisfactory outcome for Mr S. But as Im satisfied theyve acted 
correctly in cancelling his policy, it follows I wont say theyve acted incorrectly because there 
was one month left to go on his policy. And I can see Advantage have made it clear Mr S 
doesnt need to declare any cancellations when applying for insurance in future  and hes 
been given a pro-rata refund of the premiums he paid  both of which are as Id expect.
Its genuinely very unfortunate for Mr S whats happened, particularly with how close he was 
to earning another years no claims bonus. And I have a lot of sympathy for the situation hes 
found himself in. But for the reasons Ive explained above I wont be telling Advantage to do 
anything further.My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman