DRN-4026588
The complaint
Mr B complains that advice given by an appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited to 
invest in Elysian Fuels wasnt in his best interests and caused him a financial loss.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
This decision just relates to the advice given to Mr B in February 2014. Mr Bs sons were 
also advised at the same time, which involved separate fact-finding and assessments of their 
attitude to risk. Their complaints are dealt with separately. 
The advice was given by Anand Associates, an appointed representative of TenetConnect 
Limited (Tenet), so Tenet is responsible for answering the complaint, and I will just refer to 
that business in the decision.
The fact find completed in January 2014 captured the following information about Mr Bs 
circumstances:
He was a widower aged 71;
He ran a successful engineering company Ill refer to as N with his two sons;
He took a salary of £18,000 but had net assets of around £2.45m including his home 
(an unencumbered property valued at £600k);
A risk questionnaire evaluated his attitude to risk as 7/10 categorised by Tenet as medium 
to high risk.
He had the following pension provision:
an Executive Pension Plan (EPP) with provider A valued at around £800,000, 
another EPP started in 1977 and a Personal Pension (PP) started in 1989 with 
different providers which he didnt know the values of;
a 75% share in a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme (FURB), worth 
around £667,500
The retirement age for each scheme was noted as 75, although Mr B said he didnt 
actually intend to stop working.
N was due to make an employer pension contribution of £104,000 for Mr B, split across 
three tax years, taking the value of the FURB to around £890,000.
Tenets recommendation letter dated 10 February 2014 stated Mr B and his two sons were 
a close-knit family making joint decisions both at a business and personal level. It identified 
they were in a position to invest around £33,000 between them, and Mr B apparently wanted 
to take a high-risk approach to investing. After considering a number of investment options, 
Tenet recommended Mr B invest in Elysian Fuels (EF), which was structured as a limited 
liability partnership through Future Capital Partners Limited (FCP). The adviser 
recommended Mr B purchase 100,000 unquoted shares at £1 each in an EF limited 
company connected to the partnership. The investment would be funded by Mr B paying a 
cash deposit of £16,600, with the remainder through a limited recourse loan of £87,150 
through FCP. The shares would then be sold to a new Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) for £100,000, with the cash released to Mr B. The employer contribution from N 
would also be paid into the new SIPP rather than to Mr Bs existing EPP or FURB. The 
choice of SIPP provider (J) was explained in a further letter dated 19 February 2014. Tenet 
offered to reduce its usual advice fee to £4,000, £2,000 apportioned to Mr B, and the two 
sons paying £1,000 each. 
Mr B signed Js SIPP application on 21 February 2014, and N made a pension contribution 
of £104,000 to Mr Bs SIPP. Subsequently the investment in EF went ahead, and in March 
2014 Mr B signed the paperwork to sell the EF shares to his SIPP with J. When the 
£100,000 was released Mr B says he just added it to his savings rather than invest it for 
growth. 
Not long after this, HMRC started investigating the arrangements around EF investments, 
questioning the original value of £1 per share and how transactions were treated for tax 
purposes. The EF project failed, and the company went into compulsory liquidation in 2016.
The 2016 statement of Mr Bs SIPP showed the EF shares had a nil value. 
In September 2018 HMRC wrote to Mr B as it didnt look like the EF LLP was carrying on a 
business with a view to profit, and therefore the disposal of shares to his SIPP incurred an 
unauthorised tax charge of 40%. Mr B agreed to repay just under £55,323 to settle the tax 
charge. 
In November 2018 Mr Bs CMC told Tenet it had been instructed to pursue complaints on 
behalf of Mr B (and his sons), in respect of the advice to invest in EF, suggesting Tenet put 
its professional indemnity insurers on notice, as their clients losses were in the region of 
£200,000 to £300,000. In an appendix the CMC made a subject access request (SAR) and 
set out an extensive list of documents and information it would like to see. Tenet 
acknowledged the complaint but requested further information from Mr B (and his sons) in 
order to proceed. As this information wasnt received, on 6 December 2018 Tenet said it 
closed its file.
In April 2019 Tenet provided some of the information requested in the SAR, and the CMC 
complained to Tenet in March 2020. Tenet responded in September 2020, saying the 
complaint had been made too late, being more than six years after the advice in 2014, and 
more than three years since Mr B ought reasonably to have known he had cause to 
complain (either when the statement showed the shares were worthless, or when HMRC 
pursued him for tax). The CMC said it had complained in November 2018, which was within 
six years, but Tenet said the 30 November 2018 letter had been dealt with as a SAR not a 
complaint.
So in February 2021 the complaint was referred to this service. Tenet didnt consent to us 
looking at it. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision in July 2022 explaining why the complaint had been made in 
time, in accordance with DISP rule 2.8.2. I was satisfied the 30 November 2018 letter met 
the criteria of a complaint, and Tenet had a record of it being received. 
Tenet continued to object, but on different grounds, saying if the 30 November 2018 letter 
was a complaint, then the six-month time limit should apply, once eight weeks had passed.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 in which I reiterated why I thought the 
complaint was within the jurisdiction of this service. And I went on to say why I was 
upholding the complaint and what Tenet should do to put things right. Provisional decision
I made the following provisional findings (in summary):
Jurisdiction
The six-month time limit is not triggered by the expiry of the eight-week period from a 
complaint being received by a business. 
DISP 2.8.1(2) says The Ombudsman can only consider a complaint if [] eight weeks 
have elapsed since the respondent received the complaint. 
Which means unless the business consents, we have no power to consider a complaint prior 
to the eight weeks having elapsed, as the respondent business (in this case Tenet) must be 
given adequate opportunity to respond and resolve the complaint first. 
But a consumer is only bound by the six-month referral period if a final response has been 
issued by the business which includes this information. The requirements of a valid final 
response are set out in DISP 1.6.2. At the relevant time it had to be in writing, should either 
accept or reject the complaint giving reasons for doing so, provide referral rights to this 
service and enclose a copy of our leaflet (later versions also required other inclusions such 
as our website link).
Although Tenet responded to the complaint brought by Mr Bs representatives in 2018, its 
reply did not meet the requirements of a valid final response to his complaint. It didnt include 
referral rights to this service or explain the six-month time limit, so it follows Mr B isnt bound 
by it. As there is a record of the complaint being received by Tenet in 2018, and no final 
response was issued to trigger the six-months period, I was satisfied the complaint is one we 
have the legal power to consider. 
So I went on to consider the merits. 
Was the advice to invest in Elysian Fuels suitable?
EF bears many of the hallmarks of an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). On 
1 January 2014 the FCA further clamped down on the promotion of such investments at 
COBS 4.12 so that they were not promoted to ordinary retail clients. But they can be 
promoted to high-net-worth individuals or experienced, sophisticated investors. The 
investment in EF was promoted to Mr B by Tenet because of his status as a high net worth 
individual (HNWI). This was defined as Mr B having in the previous year income in excess 
of £100,000 and net assets valued at in excess of £250,000 excluding his main residence or 
pension benefits. Mr B signed a statement to confirm to Tenet that he could be treated as 
such on 21 January 2014. And based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Mr B was a 
HNWI. The fact-find also suggested Mr B had previously invested in unregulated 
investments, so had some experience of these. So I didnt think it was specifically a breach 
of any legislation or regulation for the investment to be promoted to him.  That is however a 
different matter to whether it was suitable for him.
The failure of the EF investment, meaning the shares are effectively worthless doesnt 
necessarily mean it was unsuitable. That depends on a number of factors, including Mr Bs 
capacity for loss, attitude to risk and understanding and acceptance of the risks involved. Mr 
B and his sons had intended to invest £33,000 (actually £33,200 for the share purchase to 
be a round number) between them, in a relatively risky investment, and Tenets report said 
they had the capacity to do so. It said Mr B was in a position to take risks with this investment as his income and pension from the family business N would be sufficient for 
the foreseeable future, he already had significant assets, and he had no firm plans to retire. 
It went on [Mr B and his sons] can therefore afford to lose all of this investment as it 
wouldnt affect their standard of living. 
Tenets 10 February 2014 Wealth Creation letter focussed on describing the EF project 
which related to two renewable transport fuel refineries in the UK and USA. A good case 
was made for the future market for green energy, and its potential for investment returns. I 
acknowledged the report stated in bold that investment into bio-refining is considered to be 
high risk, and investors should read the risk factors in the appendix. This repeated that 
investment in this sector is highly risky, and in bold capitals YOU COULD LOSE ALL YOUR 
CAPITAL, and later on in bold, that as a speculative high-risk unregulated investment you 
could lose your entire capital. So while it didnt appear Mr B had been required to sign to 
acknowledge hed read and understood the risk warnings, I couldnt fairly say he wasnt 
made aware of the risks inherent in this type of investment. 
Tenets suitability report of 19 February 2014 recommended Mr B made an investment of 
£100,000 in EF, and that it would be more efficient if he made a cash contribution of 
£16,600, with the remaining £87,150 by way of a limited recourse loan. Tenet said this made 
the money work harder, using the example of borrowing money to purchase a buy-to-let 
property. It said holding the shares within Mr Bs SIPP sheltered them from capital gains tax 
and selling the shares into the SIPP would enable £100,000 to be released from his pension 
tax-free, which Mr B could then reinvest. Although it made no recommendation about how he 
should invest those funds, and I understood he hadnt done so.  
So a modest investment in EF in itself wasnt necessarily unsuitable, given Mr Bs worth and 
capacity for loss. But Tenets recommendation increased the risk, because it said he should 
leverage the investment by taking out a limited recourse loan, grossed up to 84% of the total 
investment. Doing so appeared to maximise the potential investment returns. But if the 
investment failed, not only would Mr B lose his investment, he might still be liable to repay 
the loan. In other words, although Tenet had identified Mr B and his sons could afford to 
invest (and risk) £33,000, it recommended they invest far more than they had the capacity to 
lose. 
In addition, I referred to the attitude to risk questionnaire Mr B completed on 21 January 
2014, which assessed him as 7/10. I said while this may have been the aggregate score, 
some of Mr Bs recorded answers suggested he was more risk averse than that. For 
example when answering question 1 he agreed with the statement People who know me 
would describe me as a cautious person. And he disagreed with question 8, I am willing to 
take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns, and question 11 Id rather take my 
chances with high risk/high return investments than have to increase the amount I am 
saving. These responses suggest at most, Mr B might have been prepared to take up to a 
medium risk with those funds, as the amount was relatively modest when compared to his 
overall worth. But I think those answers shouldve alerted the adviser that increasing Mr Bs 
exposure through a leveraged investment in an unregulated scheme such as EF wasnt right 
for him, given the significant potential for loss.
 
Id seen that Mr B was warned his SIPP with J wouldnt be protected by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), investment performance may be lower than 
predicted or charges may be higher. But from the positive tone of the report, I wasnt 
persuaded Mr B wouldve really understood how the investment in EF worked. Or the 
possibility of the financial and reputational impact of an unauthorised tax charge.
So the greater risk for Mr B was the tax treatment. Tenet recommended Mr B sell his shares 
in EF to his SIPP, provided the suggested SIPP provider J agreed to this. Mr B would subscribe to the shares first, and then sell them to his SIPP, which would enable the cash to 
be released to him personally. Tenet said theres nothing in HMRC legislation to prevent a 
SIPP buying shares from Mr B as a member trustee. And that holding the shares within his 
SIPP protected them from capital gains tax, making it tax efficient.  But I thought Tenet 
should have been aware that this transaction effectively enabled Mr B to release £100,000 
from his pension tax-free, when the maximum set out in legislation is 25%. Mr B became 
liable for (and has paid) an unauthorised tax charge, so the scheme was not tax efficient, 
and had the added reputational impact of finding himself under HMRC scrutiny. 
So to conclude I said:
Despite Mr Bs substantial assets, I wasnt persuaded it was suitable for him to invest 
in a complex, leveraged arrangement which resulted in him being invested in unlisted 
shares in a single unlisted company, and being exposed to significant tax risks. 
I could see the attraction of an investment in green energy, but it was a newly formed 
company, the plant wasnt yet built, and it had no track record of generating profit, so 
the venture was highly speculative. 
Although Tenet considers Mr B only invested £16,600 of his own money, he could 
still have been liable to repay the loan of £87,150 at the end of the term, unless the 
shares increased significantly in value. So the leveraging didnt decrease Mr Bs risk, 
it actually increased it. 
I said a competent adviser ought to have realised releasing £100,000 meant this was 
essentially a tax avoidance scheme, which put Mr B at risk of HMRC taking action, as 
indeed it did. 
It appeared Tenet introduced Mr B to the idea of EF, and I didnt think Mr B wouldve 
invested in EF if Tenet hadnt recommended it, or if hed been given clear advice 
against doing so. 
While Tenet was advising Mr B in a personal capacity and not strictly the employer 
(even though Mr B represented both), its still the case that the employer would have 
needed to decide where to make its pension contribution in the absence of Tenets 
advice to Mr B to invest in EF. 
FURBS no longer have the same advantages as they used to enjoy since the 
Finance Act 2004 was implemented. A personal pension (or a SIPP) would likely 
have been viewed as having better tax advantages at the time of these events, and 
the pension contribution was sufficiently large for there to be nothing particularly 
unusual about it being paid to a new SIPP. 
So, for the purpose of this complaint I assumed N would always have made its 
employer pension contribution to Mr Bs SIPP - whether it had sought advice on this 
from Tenet or not. 
Mr B hasnt quantified his loss, but it appeared he lost his initial cash contribution of 
£16,600 and has paid an unexpected tax bill of £55,323.
I wasnt sure Mr B had made any repayments towards the loan of £87,150, but I 
thought HMRCs view of this as a tax avoidance scheme makes it unlikely hell be 
required to do so in future. Given the loan was issued by the same company that sold 
him the shares and based on a questionable value for those shares. 
Mr B received £100,000 cash when the shares were sold to his SIPP, which I 
understood he retained in cash savings, rather than invest. But that represents 
money that he would eventually have been able to take from his SIPP anyway, less 
some tax (which would be at a lower rate than the tax charge he has paid).
I was satisfied Mr B was a HNWI with the financial capacity and risk appetite to 
consider a modest investment in a non-mainstream investment product. And it looked 
like he had some limited previous experience of such investments. But I dont 
consider the recommendation to invest in EF by way of a leveraged arrangement 
was suitable. I dont think Mr B fully understood how the scheme worked, and I think the risks involved were understated. The proposal increased Mr Bs risk and exposed 
him to HMRC scrutiny and an unauthorised tax charge. 
So my provisional decision was I upheld the complaint and set out how I thought Tenet 
should put things right.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded.
Mr B through his representatives, accepted the provisional decision. And he provided 
evidence of the amount he had actually paid HMRC in respect of the unauthorised tax 
charge. Being an initial sum of £52,322.09 in December 2018, and the balance of £2,990.79 
which he settled in January 2019 (a total of £55,312.88).
He provided no evidence to show hed made any repayments to the loan. And he didnt 
disagree with the assumption that hed likely be a higher rate taxpayer in retirement. 
Tenet responded, making the following points (in summary):
1 - Jurisdiction  six months
It restated its previous argument that if the November 2018 letter was a complaint, then it 
follows the complaint should now be time-barred due to the time that has now passed. It 
pointed out DISP rule 2.8.3(G) is guidance, and therefore not binding. If a business hasnt 
issued a final response letter, the DISP rules allow a complaint to be referred to our service 
once eight weeks have passed since a complaint to the business. 
Tenet did not issue a final response letter, so Mr B was entitled to refer his complaint to this 
service after eight weeks had elapsed. Tenet thought the six-month referral timescale should 
apply from the point the eight weeks elapsed, otherwise it makes a mockery of the time 
limits in DISP, which would effectively never expire. 
2 - Jurisdiction  regulated activity
Tenet wondered why the ombudsman said the investment in EF bears many of the 
hallmarks of an unregulated investment but stopped short of concluding it was UCIS. 
Tenet believes EF was a UCIS, which are not regulated products, therefore advising on 
UCIS is not a regulated activity. So the activity in this complaint falls outside of the 
jurisdiction of this service.
3 - Mr Bs previous investment experience
Mr B was a HNWI, and no stranger to investing in high-risk unregulated investments. He 
was a sophisticated investor willing to take high risk for high returns, and so is likely to have 
proceeded with the investment in EF if Tenet had given no advice.
4 - Break in causation
The investment in EF was contingent on the SIPP provider J permitting the investment to 
be held within the SIPP. The loss arose because Mr B was able to sell his investment into 
his SIPP. So regardless of any advice given by Tenet, the SIPP provider failed in its duty of care to Mr B. And while Tenet may be held to have recommended the transaction, it had no 
control over the release of funds to the SIPP so wasnt responsible for Mr Bs loss.
5 - Tax losses
The tax losses arose from the unauthorised release of funds from Mr Bs pension without 
paying the appropriate tax, so should be borne by the SIPP provider not Tenet.
As the tax charge was settled with HMRC on a without prejudice basis, Tenet said it 
needed to know how the figures were calculated, as they dont appear to align to a 55% 
charge on the amount withdrawn from the SIPP.
So the case has been returned to me to issue the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before setting out my final conclusions Ill respond to Tenets points in turn. 
1 - Jurisdiction  six months
Ive explained previously firms must be given a fair opportunity to investigate and resolve 
complaints without our involvement. So we had no power to get involved until eight weeks 
have elapsed since the complaint was made to Tenet. If no final response was issued, the 
consumer can refer the complaint to us after eight weeks. This prevents consumers being 
kept waiting unfairly due to a firms inefficient complaint handling. There are other time limits 
relating to how long after an event happening a complaint can be made. The advice was 
given in 2014, and Mr B brought his complaint to this service in February 2021, more than 
six years later. But I said that DISP 2.8.2(R) states the clock is stopped not when Mr B 
made his complaint, but if theres evidence of a complaint having been received by Tenet. I 
said there was evidence of a complaint having been received by Tenet in 
November/December 2018, which was within three years from when Mr B ought reasonably 
to have realised he had cause to complain. So I proceeded on the basis Mr B had 
complained within the time limits. 
Tenet now says that if the 30 November 2018 letter was a complaint, then Mr B is bound by 
a different time limit, which means hes still complained too late. Tenet claims that Mr B only 
had six months from the expiry of the eight-week period within which it should have issued 
its final response (around 25 January 2019) to complain to this service. Otherwise it would 
be unfair, and the regulator didnt intend complainants to have endless time to complain. 
DISP 2.8.2 (R) states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service
(1) More than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response [..]
DISP 2.8.3(G) goes on to say:The response must tell the complainant about the six-month time limit that the complainant has 
to refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
Tenets position is that the six-month time period should apply, whether or not the business 
has provided a response to a complaint. It doesnt suggest its 6 December 2018 response 
met the definition as set out in DISP 1.6.2 (R) of a final response. But it points out that as 
2.8.3(G) is guidance only, (rather than a rule signified by R) then it is my interpretation that 
the six-month time period is only triggered if any response to a complaint explains the six-
month time limit. But I disagree. 
The FCA states that its rules are binding on firms, and failure to comply would make a firm 
liable for enforcement and potential action for damages, which wouldnt apply to guidance. 
But I think the FCA still expects its guidance to be followed, it just wouldnt take enforcement 
action against non-compliance with guidance. In any event, the definition of a valid final 
response letter is set out in 1.6.2(R), which is a rule and therefore is binding. The 
requirements have changed and strengthened over time but have always required firms to 
include details of this service, whether by inclusion of a leaflet, a website link or setting out 
our contact details. 
Had Tenets 6 December 2018 response included our leaflet or website link (from which it 
wouldve been possible to discover the six-month time limit), then it may have a point that it 
wasnt binding on them to mention the six-month timescale in the body of the letter. But 
Tenets letter of 6 December 2018 is silent on Mr Bs right of referral to this service and 
included no leaflet or website link. So I see no justification to say that because Tenet issued 
some kind of response, even though it wasnt a valid final response to the complaint, then 
the six-month time limit applies from the date of that letter. Tenet believes it wasnt the 
regulators intention to give complainants unlimited time to complain. Its not my role to 
speak for the FCA, but I think the over-riding intention of the DISP rules is ensuring 
complaints are dealt with effectively, fairly and with a minimum of delay. By failing to provide 
a meaningful response to Mr Bs complaint or referral rights to this service, I dont think 
Tenet has acted in accordance with the letter or the spirit of these rules. So Im satisfied the 
six-month time limit does not apply here. 
2 - Jurisdiction  regulated activity
Tenet considers EF to be a UCIS and wonders why I said EF bore many of the hallmarks of 
UCIS but stopped short of categorising it as such. Whether EF is UCIS or not is only relevant 
if the complaint turned on whether it was appropriate for those investments to be promoted 
to Mr B as a retail client. Im simply considering the suitability of Tenets recommendation 
that Mr B (and his sons) invest in EF, which were unlisted shares. Tenet also says that as 
UCIS are unregulated investments, then the advice to invest in them is not a regulated 
activity. But thats not correct. 
DISP 2.3.1(R) says that we can consider a complaint under the compulsory jurisdiction of 
this service if it relates to an act or omission of a firm in carrying on regulated activities or 
certain other activities (including ancillary activities) set out in the Regulated Activities Order 
2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a regulated activity (Article 53) of the RAO. The EF 
shares purchased are (unlisted) securities which are specified investments under article 76 
of the RAO. So Im satisfied regardless of whether the investments themselves were a 
regulated product, the regulated activity being complained about is regulated investment 
advice as per article 53 of the RAO. Which means we have jurisdiction to consider the 
activity being complained about. 
3 - Mr Bs previous investment experienceThe recommendation letter explained that despite Mr Bs capacity to save, hed previously 
invested little in traditional investments such as ISAs and the stock market, instead building 
up Cash and using this to invest in other assets such as property. It seems Mr B had 
invested in three Enterprise Property Trusts and had some riskier investments (such as 
technology and global equities). Id said I didnt think a modest investment in EF was 
necessarily unsuitable for Mr B given his overall wealth and capacity for loss. The increased 
risk came from leveraging the investment by way of a loan, releasing cash there was no 
evidence he needed, and avoiding tax. Tenet was engaged because Mr B had savings and a 
pension contribution to invest and was prepared to take considered risks with a sum he 
could afford to treat less cautiously. But while the risks inherent in the EF investment itself 
were set out, I dont think Mr Bs previous investment experience meant hed have 
understood the additional risks arising from the loan, investing in unlisted shares, or the tax 
implications, unless Tenet had explained these. And I think on balance Mr B is unlikely to 
have gone ahead, had all the risks been explained as they should have been. 
4 - Break in causation
Tenet says there was no legislation or regulation breach which prevented a UCIS investment 
being recommended to Mr B as a HNWI. And as the investment was conditional on J being 
prepared to accept the investments in EF into the SIPP, J is responsible for Mr Bs loss, not 
Tenets advice. But in this decision Im considering the regulated financial advice provided by 
Tenet, which introduced Mr B and his sons to the idea of investing in EF. Theres nothing to 
suggest Mr B approached Tenet with that in mind. Tenet made a positive recommendation 
that Mr B should invest in unlisted shares in EF, which at the time was highly speculative but 
arguably had growth potential due to the interest in green energy. And in addition Tenet 
actually recommended Mr B further increase his risk by leveraging the investment, and 
risked HMRC scrutiny by releasing funds without paying the relevant tax.
An adviser must act in accordance with the regulators rules, guidance, standards and codes 
of practice, including the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Of most relevance in this case are:
PRIN 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly;
PRIN 7 - A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its client and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading;
COBS 2.1.1R - A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client.
Ive already said if Tenet had simply recommended Mr B and his sons invest their available 
cash (£33,000) in EF that wouldnt necessarily have been unsuitable, despite it being a 
speculative untested technology. Tenet didnt simply recommend the investment in EF, it 
recommended the limited recourse loan and an effective tax avoidance scheme. Regardless 
of the acts or omissions of J, Im not satisfied Tenet acted in Mr Bs best interests, by not 
making him aware of the additional risks inherent in leveraging the investment and risking 
HMRC scrutiny. And Im not satisfied Tenets advice was suitable for Mr Bs objectives and 
circumstances. Even if Mr B was interested in higher risk investments, and the prospects for 
green technology, it was for Tenet as the regulated adviser to explain the additional risks of 
leveraging the investment and the potential for an unauthorised tax charge.
5 - Tax losses
Tenet says it needs to understand how the tax losses were calculated, as in its opinion the 
quoted figures dont fit with what theyd expect, namely 55% of the withdrawal from the SIPP 
(40% income tax plus 15% surcharge).Tenet has been provided with copies of the letters Mr B received from HMRC, and a 
redacted copy of a bank statement showing the amount he paid. Im satisfied Mr B incurred 
a tax charge which he has paid, and for the purposes of this decision I dont consider its 
necessary to check HMRCs calculations.
Conclusion
Having considered everything afresh, I remain of the opinion that Tenets advice was 
unsuitable. 
At the time of the advice, Mr B had funds available to invest and it seems he was prepared 
to take a higher risk with those funds. But as Ive said, Tenets advice to increase Mr Bs risk 
beyond the level he was prepared to accept wasnt suitable. And mentioning the advantages 
of sheltering the shares from capital gains tax while not explaining the tax implications from 
releasing funds from a pension was misleading, and not in Mr Bs best interests.  A 
competent advisor ought to have been alive to the significant risk involved with using a loan 
in this way to access funds from a pension. Tenet should have recognised this as a tax 
avoidance scheme and therefore ought to have known of the risk of HMRC taking action. 
There were several risk factors that ought to have been immediately apparent to the adviser 
including a potential tax bill, the liability to repay the loan and costs that might have arisen as 
a consequence, and the reputational impact on Mr B personally and in relation to his 
business of HMRC scrutiny.
So I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in the provisional decision, and I 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think if Mr B had been given suitable advice he would have invested the £104,000 
employer pension contribution from N into his SIPP differently. I dont know how those 
funds wouldve been invested. As its not possible to say precisely what Mr B would have 
done, Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr B's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
I consider it fair to calculate and compare the notional position Mr B would have been in 
had he not been given advice to invest in EF with the actual position hes in now. 
The transaction Mr B entered into when the EF shares were sold to his SIPP resulted in the 
release of a tax-free lump sum of £100,000 from his pension which is being treated by 
HMRC as an unauthorised payment. Tenet suggested Mr B could reinvest this sum to 
generate further income, but Mr B has confirmed he retained those funds in cash. In 
calculating Mr Bs actual position now, I propose that the values of the money he
released from his pension or paid to HMRC are the amounts to be used, with no adjustment 
to bring those values up to date. The reason I say this is because rather than investing that 
money elsewhere, Mr B left it in cash. Therefore, I dont think it is appropriate to add any 
further investment return.
What should Tenet do?
TenetConnect should calculate the following on the date of my final decision: Notional position = A+B+C where: 
A = Value of Mr Bs SIPP with J if it had not purchased shares in Elysian Fuels, no fees 
had been taken by Tenet and it had instead performed in line with a benchmark of the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index at the date of calculation. 
I think this is an appropriate benchmark to use given Mr B wanted capital growth and was 
willing to accept some investment risk. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return 
index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is 
made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to 
get a higher return. Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided 
within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr Bs circumstances and risk appetite.
This value should then be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid in the normal course of drawing benefits. This reduction which Ill 
call the notional tax allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. As Mr B would be able to take a tax-free cash sum of 25% of the total 
pension, Im going to assume he would pay higher rate income tax on the rest, meaning that 
the notional tax allowance would be 30% overall.
The notional tax allowance is an adjustment to ensure compensation is fair  it is not a 
payment Tenet will have to make to HMRC. 
B = The value of Mr Bs initial contribution of £16,600 to Elysian Fuels which he would have 
retained if he hadnt invested in the scheme. To be added to this is the amount of 
repayments Mr B made on the non-recourse loan (if any), and fees he paid to third parties 
to administer the LLP associated with Elysian Fuels (if any). 
C = The amount of £55,323 Mr B has paid HMRC to settle the tax charge, which he would 
have retained if he hadnt invested in the scheme. To this should be added any tax Mr B 
has already paid HMRC as a result of his interest in the LLP.
Actual position = D+E+F, where: 
D = Value of Mr Bs SIPP with J.
As the Elysian Fuels shares held in the SIPP are illiquid (so cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, I think it is 
reasonable to assume the investment has no current value and there is no prospect of any 
future return. On that basis it is fair to make no allowance for a current or future value. For 
that reason, the actual value of the shares in the SIPP should be assumed to be nil and C 
will just be the value of other assets (if any) held in the SIPP such as a bank account. 
The overall value of the SIPP with J should then be reduced by the same notional tax 
allowance as used for A above.
E = Value of any interest Mr B holds in the LLP. I consider this value to be nil and I do not 
think there is any reasonable prospect of his interest having any value in the future. 
F = Current value of the £100,000 released to Mr B from the sale of Elysian shares to the 
SIPP. Mr B has told us he retained this sum in its entirety in cash savings, and Ive noted 
that Tenet did not provide a firm recommendation on where it should be invested - so no 
adjustment is to be made to the value. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, then Mr B has suffered a loss (after 
allowing for future taxation) equal to the difference. Given that Mr B is already out of pocket 
as a result of a tax demand from HMRC, I consider it would put Mr B closest to the position 
he would have been in without Tenets advice if it pays this sum directly to him.
In addition, Tenet should pay Mr B £250 for the distress, embarrassment and worry of 
experiencing HMRC scrutiny and an unauthorised tax charge.
Undertakings
Its possible that HMRC reviews its position and decides Mr B owes less tax than he has 
already paid in respect of the unauthorised payment, or taxation on the LLP. To cover this 
eventuality, Mr B should provide TenetConnect Limited with an undertaking to pay to it the 
overall amount of any amount of refund he receives from HMRC. 
In addition, its possible that HMRC asks Mr B to pay further tax in future in settlement of 
the unauthorised payment, or to discharge the tax liability of the LLP. Tenet should also 
undertake to pay those sums.
Payment of redress as set out above may be made subject to these undertakings. 
TenetConnect will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertakings.
Determination and money award
My decision is that TenetConnect Limited should pay the amounts produced by that 
calculation up to the maximum of £160,000. Plus interest at 8% per year simple from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment, if the award is not settled within 28 days of 
TenetConnect Limiteds receipt of Mr Bs acceptance of the final decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tenet deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Tenet should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
If an undertaking results in a future sum being owed to Mr B by TenetConnet Limited which 
would take the total compensation payable to Mr B above £160,000 I recommend that 
TenetConnect Limited should pay the balance of the £160,000 as set out above.
However if the compensation TenetConnect Limited needs to pay Mr B now already 
exceeds £160,000 and TenetConnect Limited does not accept the recommendation, in 
these circumstances it is not required to provide Mr B with an undertaking to pay him more 
as per the schedule outlined above. But in those circumstances, if any repayment of the 
unauthorised tax charge is made by HMRC, Mr B would also only be expected to return the 
part of the repayment (if any) to TenetConnect Limited that would reduce the total loss 
determined by the calculation above to below £160,000. 
Mr B should also be aware that if he accepts the final decision the money award is binding 
on TenetConnect Limited up to £160,000. But any recommendation above £160,000 is not 
binding on TenetConnect Limited. Further its unlikely that Mr B could accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for any remaining balance above £160,000. 
Mr B should be aware that accepting my final decision may affect his legal rights should 
any liabilities arise in respect of the limited recourse loan he used to purchase the shares or 
otherwise. So Mr B may wish to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept the final decision. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TenetConnect Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman