DRN-3513171
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined his 
claim on his motor insurance policy and that there was a delay in informing him the claim 
had been declined.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. In July 2021 his car caught fire and so he 
made a claim to Admiral after he had organised the car to be towed to the main dealer.
After a number of weeks of the car being at the main dealer, Admirals expert engineer 
conducted an investigation on the car. Admiral concluded that modifications to the car and 
removal of the catalytic converter had made it unroadworthy and this meant it could exclude 
the claim under the policy terms and conditions. It declined to settle Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C had the car towed to a local specialist garage and it was repaired at his own cost. Mr C 
said the mechanic at his garage said that the fire had happened due to lack of thermal 
protection on the car from when it came from the factory.
Mr C said that all the modifications to his car had been declared to Admiral and it had never 
failed an MOT. He said this meant the car was not unroadworthy and it should have settled 
his claim.
Mr C is also unhappy that Admiral did not supply a courtesy car whilst the investigations 
were ongoing. And he said Admiral had caused delays when making a decision to decline 
the claim.  
As Mr C was not happy with Admiral, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said Admiral 
were under no obligation to provide Mr C with a courtesy car or cover the claim for damage 
as per the terms and conditions of the motor insurance policy.
As Mr C is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim timeline 
I first looked into the timeline of the claim. Mr C reported the claim to Admiral on 
2 August 2021. Admiral started its investigations on 18 August 2021 and Admirals expert 
engineers inspection of the car was conducted on 14 September 2021. Admiral accepted 
there was a delay and paid Mr C £50 for this. 
I saw there was a delay in Admiral being able to contact the main dealer garage that Mr C 
had the car towed to. The main dealer was not a garage included on Admirals network. 
Once Admiral got through to the main dealer on 7 September 2021, it arranged the 
inspection within one week and the inspection report was completed three days later. 
I understand during this time Mr C will have been without his car waiting for an update on 
progression of his claim. Because the reason for the delay was not caused entirely by 
Admiral, I feel £50 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Courtesy car
As part of Mr Cs insurance policy, a courtesy car is provided in certain circumstances. I 
looked at the detail in the terms and conditions and it says; A courtesy car will not be 
provided until the repairs have been authorised.
 
A courtesy car was not provided while Admiral conducted its investigations into Mr Cs claim 
and because Admiral did not authorise the repairs to the car it was not obliged to offer Mr C 
a courtesy car.
Declination of claim
Admiral have given two reasons why the damage to the car was not covered by the policy:
That the car was not roadworthy.
The cause of the damage.
It said the car was not roadworthy because it would not pass an MOT test due to the 
modifications to the exhaust. The MOT test rules say; Emission control equipment fitted by 
the manufacturer: missing, obviously modified or obviously defective, is a Major 
defect/failure. Admiral said this meant Mr C was in breach of the general conditions of his 
policy. 
I checked the policy and within the general conditions it says;
3. Care of your vehicle
You and any other insured person must;
 protect your vehicle from loss or damage
 make sure your vehicle is roadworthy
 if applicable, make sure your vehicle has a current MOT certificate
 remove and secure any keys or device that allows access to your vehicle, if it is left 
unoccupied.
Failure to comply with the above could result in the claim being refused and/or your policy 
being cancelled.
I do understand that Mr C had informed Admiral of the modifications to the car and so he 
feels it accepted the car as roadworthy and so the damage should be covered. I saw on his 
policy schedule it does detail some modifications which includes Exhaust/Manifold 
non-standard. However, this does not detail that parts have been removed, such as the 
catalytic converter, as was found during the engineers inspection.As such, I think Admiral were correct in assessing that Mr Cs vehicle was unroadworthy as 
per government guidelines.
Included in the detailed engineers report it says the cause of the fire was a mechanical 
failure. And the damage to the car was caused by inadequate heat shielding to 
accommodate these modifications. The report indicates that if there had been additional heat 
shielding fitted when modifications had taken place, then this could have prevented the fire 
damage occurring. 
As such, I think Admiral have fairly declined Mr Cs claim in line with his policy terms and 
conditions. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman