DRN-1611080
The complaint
Mr M complains that Assurance General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under 
his gadget insurance policy and that, as a result, he had to pay for his computer to be 
repaired.
What happened
In 2015, Mr M took out gadget insurance with Assurant for a computer. In October 2019, he 
made a claim when he discovered a fault with the computer. Assurant initially said there was 
no cover for the computer because it was worth more than the £2000 policy limit, and that it 
would refund the premiums and cancel the policy. 
Mr M complained to Assurant about its decision to decline the claim. And, in the meantime, 
because he needed it for work, he paid for the computer to be repaired. Assurant accepted it 
had made a mistake and told Mr M the claim would be covered. It accepted the policy limit 
wasnt included in the terms and conditions and offered to refund the money Mr M had paid 
for the computer to be repaired and to waive the £50 excess fee.
But Mr M wasnt satisfied. Complaining to this service, he explained he didnt feel hed been 
compensated for time hed spent arranging for the computer to be repaired, stating he 
wanted the premiums to be refunded. He explained he had spent a lot of time arranging the 
repair and liaising with Assurant, and this resulted in travel costs and lost earnings.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part, recommending Assurant should 
pay Mr M a further £100 for the unnecessary inconvenience hed experienced as a result of 
having to pay for the computer to be repaired. Assurant has asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, arguing the additional compensation is excessive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant accepted its initial decision to decline the claim was unfair and, responding Mr Ms 
complaint, it agreed to settle the claim, waive the £50 excess fee and reimburse the money 
hed spent getting the computer repaired. Im satisfied that was fair and that it compensates 
Mr M for the expenses he incurred as a result of Assurants failings.
In waiving the £50 excess fee, Assurant has addressed the inconvenience Mr M 
experienced as a result of its failings. But because of the time he spent arranging for the 
computer to be repaired (while he should have been working), Mr M doesnt feel this went far 
enough.
Im satisfied Mr M should be compensated for the impact Assurants failings had on him and 
I agree £50 compensation isnt enough. As the policy did eventually provide the cover Mr M 
had paid for, I cant fairly make Assurant repay the premiums he paid. Nor do I think Mr M is 
entitled to any compensation for travel costs or lost earnings. But I am satisfied the suffered 
some unnecessary inconvenience as a result of having to arrange for the computer to be 
repaired in circumstances where he needed it to work and, taking into account the overall 
impact that had, I think £100 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
reimburse Mr M the money he paid for the computer to be repaired upon receipt of 
evidence of those costs. This is to include a payment of 8% simple interest from the 
date he incurred the cost to the date Assurant makes the payment. * If HM Revenue 
& Customs requires Assurant General Insurance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest, they must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if 
he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
pay Mr M a further £100 compensation. *The compensation is to be paid within 28 
days of the date on which we tell Assurant General Insurance Limited Mr M accepts 
my final decision (if he does). If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman