DRN-3479166
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, handled a 
subject access request he made under the General Data Protection Regulation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Barclaycard made mistakes when responding to Mr Ms subject access requests. They 
failed, for instance, to provide all of the necessary calls, and information wasnt time or date 
stamped.
The Information Commissioners Office regulates compliance to data protection laws in the 
UK. It has a number of powers including the power to order businesses to comply with data 
protection laws and to fine them. This service, however, can consider telling businesses to 
compensate consumers whove suffered financial loss or have been caused distress and 
inconvenience by the way a financial business has handled their personal information.
Barclaycard paid Mr M £575 in respect of the two claims he made to them about inadequate 
provision of information. Mr M has explained that the failure to provide comprehensive 
information has delayed his section 75 claim and its clear that the matter has been 
distressing for Mr M as it was clearly important to him to have comprehensive information 
made available to him. I think it was also likely to have been inconvenient for Mr M to have to 
chase the business for information they should have provided.
Taking all of the evidence into account; however, I think the £575 Barclaycard offered Mr M 
in compensation is sufficient and Id agree with the investigator that its more than this 
service would usually order in similar circumstances.
Im not therefore asking Barclaycard to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman