DRN-4272428
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive Money) irresponsibly 
granted her a loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2017 Mrs L took out a fixed sum loan agreement for a loan for £3,500 that was 
payable over 72 months. Part of the loan was used for consolidation of existing borrowing 
and the rest to help fund a family celebration. Under the terms of the loan agreement Mrs L 
was required to pay monthly repayments of £144.23. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £10,395.92. 
Mrs L says that Progressive Money didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She is 
also unhappy with the interest and charges that were added to the loan. 
Progressive Money says it carried out a thorough assessment which included checks that 
were fair and proportionate. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Progressive Money 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the loan.
As Mrs L didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Progressive Money will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Id like to reassure Mrs L that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available information, including what Mrs L said in response to our investigators view. 
Having done so, I am not upholding Mrs Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
The rules dont say exactly what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend, but 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a 
borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan 
payments look to be affordable. A proportionate check might also require the lender to find 
out the borrowers credit history and also take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan
Would have been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender should have
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a
sustainable way.
When Mrs L applied for this loan, Progressive Money asked her for information about her 
finances and carried out a credit check. I've carefully listened to the call recording of Mrs Ls 
discussion with Progressive Money  when it gathered information about her income and 
expenditure. I think its fair to say this was a detailed and lengthy discussion over the course 
of an hour or so. Progressive Money pressed Mrs L for specific details about exactly what 
the loans it saw in her credit history had been taken out for and how she spent her money.
Progressive Money then went on to assess Mrs Ls financial situation by checking her bank 
account, checking her actual income and breaking down her spending across various 
categories. As a result, it verified that she had a regular monthly income of around £1,000 
and committed monthly expenditure of around £700.
Taking all this into account, the figures Progressive Money recorded didnt suggest that 
Mrs L  would have any difficulty meeting the loan repayments for this loan. It looked like Mrs 
L should have had ample disposable income to cover the monthly repayments of £144.23 
she had signed up to pay each month.
The credit checks Progressive Money carried out showed that Mrs L wasnt involved in any 
sort of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. She also had no active 
county court judgments registered and no record of any recent defaults on her credit record. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Progressive Money to lend here  especially as there 
wasnt anything obvious in the information it had to suggest Mrs L wouldnt be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way. I think the repayment period of ten years was long for a loan 
of this size but I realise this reflects Mrs Ls ability to repay and is in line with the type of 
lending Progressive Money typically provided. And, having seen the credit check and income 
and expenditure breakdown it obtained, I dont think proportionate checks would have 
required Progressive Money to probe any more deeply into Mrs Ls finances.
It follows that I dont think Progressive Money had any reason to think that Mrs L wouldnt be 
able to sustainably repay the loan and it went ahead only when it had provided information 
explaining the main loan costs and Mrs L said she wanted to proceed. I know Mrs L is 
unhappy about the level of interest, as well as the various fees and charges that were added 
to her loan. But having looked at the paperwork she was sent as part of the application 
process, as well as listening to the phone calls she had with Progressive Money, I think 
these were made clear to her.  Mrs L therefore had the opportunity not to go forward with the 
agreement and finance if she didnt want to. 
It follows that, based on what Ive seen, I dont think that taking on the monthly payments 
required under the agreement could be considered to be unaffordable at the time Mrs L 
applied for the loan. I therefore dont think Progressive Money acted unfairly in approving the 
finance application.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mrs L on this occasion but I hope the reasons Ive set out 
help her to understand why Ive reached this decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman