DRN-2279087
The complaint
Ms H complains about problems she experienced accessing her Barclays Bank UK PLC 
online rewards wallet. Ms H also complains that it took Barclays seven months to resolve the 
situation. 
What happened
Ms H opened a current account with Barclays and an online rewards wallet was linked to it to 
collect incentives. Ms H has told us that in May 2019 she wasnt able to access her online 
reward wallet, but access to her current account was unaffected. Ms H contacted Barclays 
and complained. Barclays said it would refer the matter to its IT department to be resolved 
and paid Ms H £35 and arranged for the £65 held in her rewards wallet to be paid into her 
current account. 
On 6 June 2019 Ms H has told us she received a letter from Barclays dated 30 May 2019 
advising her complaint had been closed and resolved. Ms H called Barclays and was 
assured the matter was being dealt with. 
On 22 October 2019 Ms H called Barclays again as she still wasnt able to access her 
rewards wallet online. Over the following weeks Ms H made several calls and says her 
complaint was passed to various case handlers. Ms H says that on 20 November 2019 
someone told her the rewards wallet had been closed in error. 
On 23 December 2019 Barclays contacted Ms H to say the rewards wallet access had been 
reinstated. On 24 December 2019 Barclays sent Ms H its final response. Barclays 
apologised to Ms H and paid her £58, representing the incentives she should have received, 
£50 to cover her call costs and £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
actions. 
Ms H referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Barclays offer was fair and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms H 
responded to say that the problem should have been resolve faster and that Barclays had 
failed to deal with her complaint in good time. Ms H asked to appeal, so her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Ms H for the level of detail she has given in her complaint submissions. I 
havent repeated everything Ms H and Barclays have told us as I think all parties broadly 
agree about what happened. Ms H has explained that she was told the matter was being 
investigated and resolved but its clear that Barclays closed her case down, along with the 
rewards wallet. When Ms H called again in October 2019 she complained and towards the 
end of December 2019 her rewards wallet access was reinstated. Ms H has told us how the 
delays and lack of access to her rewards wallet impacted her. 
As Ms Hs access has now been reinstated and the error resolved, I need to decide how to 
fairly resolve this complaint and whether Barclays existing offer is fair. Ms H has explained 
that she had to make an unreasonable amount of calls to Barclays which took up a lot of 
time. Ms H also says the calls were handled poorly and she was passed to different 
departments. Ive listened to the available calls and I agree that Ms H had to chase Barclays 
for updates. Its also clear that Ms H was told the error had been referred to Barclays IT 
team when her case and rewards wallet had actually been closed. That led to a further delay 
of around four months whilst Ms H says she was waiting for Barclays to contact her. Overall, 
I agree with Ms H that the service she received was poor. 
Barclays has paid £58 to ensure Ms H didnt lose out financially and covered her call costs 
by paying £50. I can see Ms H spent a lot of time on the phone, but I think the £50 Barclays 
has paid reflects the costs incurred. Barclays also paid Ms H £35 in May 2019 followed by 
an offer in its final response dated 24 December 2019 of a further £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. That would mean the total figure Barclays has agreed to offer in 
relation to this case is £185 for the distress and inconvenience caused, £58 for the rewards 
and £50 for call costs  a total of £293. Ive considered the impact of not having access to 
the rewards wallet on Ms H. 
Whilst I understand Ms H wanted to know how much shed collected in rewards, she has 
confirmed access to her normal online banking was unaffected. I agree that access for the 
rewards wallet should have been available to Ms H throughout the period, but the loss of that 
access didnt impact her day to day banking. I can see Ms H was expecting Barclays to fix 
the technical issue, but I think its reasonable to note she could have contacted Barclays 
directly to check on the level of rewards she had earned after she found her access wasnt 
working. I agree the situation went on for too long and that Ms H had to chase Barclays to 
resolve the situation after it incorrectly closed her complaint. Ive taken that into account 
when reaching my decision. 
I think Ms H is correct when she says Barclays incorrectly closed her complaint and failed to 
escalate the matter to its technical teams in May 2019. Ms H had the option of referring the 
matter to our service after the issue was unresolved. When Ms H contacted Barclays again 
in October 2019 it took around two months to resolve the problem and respond to her 
complaint. But I agree, it would have been better if Barclays had dealt with the issue after Ms 
H first raised it in May 2019. 
Having considered the timeline, listened to the available calls and reviewed all the available 
information, I havent been persuaded to uphold Ms Hs complaint further. I think Barclays 
existing offer fairly takes the impact of its errors on Ms H into account. I agree the situation 
was inconvenient and that Ms H had to take action to resolve the issues raised. But, the 
problems she experienced were limited in nature, didnt affect her day to day banking and 
have ultimately been fixed. Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays proposed offer of a further 
£258 is fair in all the circumstances. As a result, Im not telling it to increase the award or 
take any further action. If Ms H wishes to accept Barclays offer she has the option of asking 
our investigator to contact the business on her behalf.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays has already made an offer 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman