DRN-3177282
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in October 2011 by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N says that when he needed to make a claim on his mobile phone insurance, he wasnt 
satisfied with the outcome, so he believes he was mis-sold the FPA which provided the 
insurance as one of its benefits.
Nationwide says that it described the FPA accurately to Mr N and he chose to take the FPA 
out based on the information it had given him.
Ive not seen any evidence, such as an assessment of Mr Ns needs, that this was an 
advised sale. And this service is aware that Nationwides sales at the time were generally 
non-advised. 
So, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale. So Nationwide was only 
required to provide Mr N with the information he needed to make an informed decision about 
the FPA.
And I think it did. I say this because Nationwide has described its sales process and 
provided copies of the information about the product which it says it gave to Mr N. And Mr N 
appears to have received it as he made a claim on the mobile phone insurance. 
The central issue here is whether Nationwide provided the correct information to Mr N about 
the mobile phone insurance at the time of sale.
Ive not seen anything that shows that it didnt. I say this because the information he was 
given included what the policy covered; that there was an excess to be paid and how much it 
was; and that any lost or damaged phone claimed for would be replaced by an equivalent 
phone or a cash offer made.
From what Ive seen of the correspondence between Nationwide and Mr N, thats exactly 
what the insurer did when he made his claim, so the information Nationwide gave him was 
correct.
So, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong in this sale.
I think the matter of whether Mr Ns claim was settled fairly or not by the insurer is a separate 
issue and something he should take up with the insurer, and it is not affected by this decision 
on the sale of the FPA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman