DRN-3182985
The complaint
Mrs B complains PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA is holding her liable for a number of 
transactions she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
Mrs B is being assisted in her complaint by her son, Mr B. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mrs B discovered a number of transactions had been made online using 
her PayPal account, for goods from a well-known sporting goods provider. Separately, a 
card for a building society account had also been used to make other transactions. As these 
transactions had been made without her knowledge, she raised the issue with PayPal and 
her card provider. 
Mrs B has received a refund via her card provider. But PayPal has declined to reimburse her 
for the transactions using her PayPal account. It said the logins were consistent and the 
address provided to the seller was her home address. As such it declined Mrs Bs claim as it 
said there was no evidence of unauthorised use of the account. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although Mrs B wasnt able to explain how her details 
came to be known such that the transactions could have taken place, he was nevertheless 
satisfied she hadnt carried out the transactions herself or authorised anyone else to do so.  
He noted the IP address history provided by PayPal showed a different address to that 
seemingly used by Mrs B. Mrs B changed her password after discovering the transactions 
and that was a different IP address to that used to login when the transactions took place 
over the 10 and 11 September. And he noted that the goods had three different names and 
addresses for delivery, none of which were to Mrs B.   
PayPal disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said the IP 
address used to make the payments was the same IP address that was used after Mrs B 
changed her password. It says the payments were made on 11 and 12 September and the 
password changed on the 12 September  it says all actions were carried out using the 
same IP. 
The matter was referred to me for review and determination. I noted PayPals insistence that 
the transactions took place on 11 and 12 September, whereas Mrs B had submitted they 
occurred on 10 and 11 September. And I further noted the Mrs B had been provided with 
dispatch information from the 11 September for a transaction which PayPal said took place 
the following day. So we asked the parties for further information. 
Mrs B has provided information which suggested the transactions did take place on 10 and 
11 September. PayPal has confirmed payment was taken at a different time to authorisation 
 with regard to the specific dispatch information, the payment was authorised on 11 
September but not taken until the 12 September.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In-line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) which are applicable to the 
transactions in question, Mrs B isnt liable for payments she didnt authorise, unless she 
failed with gross negligence, or intent, to comply with the terms of her account or keep her 
personalised security details safe. 
Under section 77 (4)(d) of the PSRs, except where a payer had acted fraudulently, the payer 
is not liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment transaction where 
the payment instrument has been used in connection with a distance contract. A distance 
contract means a contract concluded between a trader and a consumer under an organised 
distance sales or service-provision scheme, without the simultaneous physical presence of 
the trader and the consumer subject to some exemptions (as per regulation 5 of the 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. 
There isnt any provision within this part of the PSRs that holds Mrs B liable for the 
transactions if they were unauthorised, even if she acted with gross negligence (which 
PayPal has not sought to argue and which I make no finding about here). 
The transactions took place online, to a well-known sporting goods provider. As the payment 
instrument was used in conjunction with a distance contract, gross negligence isnt a factor 
for my consideration. Under the PSRs PayPal can only hold Mrs B liable for them if she 
authorised the transactions or she acted fraudulently. There is no persuasive evidence, nor 
has PayPal sought to argue, that she acted fraudulently. Therefore, my consideration is 
solely in relation to whether Mrs B authorised the transactions. 
PayPal has argued that the same IP address was used when the transactions were made on 
11 and 12 September, as to when Mrs B changed her password on 12 September and 
following that when logging into the account. I have considered this carefully, but Im not 
persuaded PayPal is looking at the right records such that it has shown Mrs B authorised the 
transactions in question. 
We provided it a copy of a dispatch note showing an order had been accepted on 11 
September by the retailer, yet PayPals records showed the payment for that order as having 
been made on 12 September; which didnt add up as a retailer was unlikely to dispatch 
goods before payment was received. PayPal has since confirmed that particular transaction 
was actually authorised the day before. So its records of when the payments were taken 
arent indicative of when the payments were actually authorised or therefore of what IP was 
used to login (and IP login addresses dont evidence the IP address at the time of 
authorising the transactions, in any event).
Mrs B has provided information which shows a number of logins to her PayPal account late 
at night on 10 September, through the early hours and throughout the day of 11 September, 
which she says werent her. These log in times match an IP address ending 64.45 on 
PayPals records, that was used to login on numerous occasions in that period. This is 
different to the IP address ending 162 that was in use when Mrs B changed her password. 
Notably, further login attempts were made from the IP address ending 64.45 after the 
password change and failed (as did another IP address ending 170).  This suggests to me 
that whoever was logging in from that IP was unaware of the password change. This is an 
indicator of attempted fraudulent access, as is the repeated logins during the early hours, 
usually to avoid detection. 
Im therefore not persuaded by PayPals arguments that the IP address used when Mrs B 
changed her password, was the same IP address in use when the transactions appear to 
have been made. PayPal has also said that the address provided to the seller was Mrs Bs home address, to 
support its view that it can find no evidence of unauthorised use of her account. I can see its 
records do suggest the shipping address was that of Mrs B, so I can understand the 
argument made. But as explained by our investigator, that isnt what was documented in the 
dispatch emails sent to Mrs B. These show the items were being sent to three different 
people, at three different addresses, none of which were Mrs B, and which Mrs B says she 
has no knowledge of. I therefore dont find its internal records of the shipping address to be 
persuasive evidence that Mrs B authorised the transactions in question.
This is a finely balanced case, particularly as it isnt clear how an unknown third-party had 
access to Mrs B details in order to complete the transactions in question. But given the 
pattern of logins to Mrs Bs PayPal account, the timing and the shear number of them, and 
given the attempted and failed logins, following the password change, Im persuaded its 
more likely than not that a fraudster had gained access to Mrs Bs PayPal account to carry 
out the transactions in dispute. I say this in the absence of any persuasive evidence that it 
was Mrs B that actually logged in and carried out the transactions in the form and procedure 
required, such that I would consider she authorised them. It follows that I dont find PayPal 
can hold Mrs B liable for them.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require PayPal 
(Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to:
Refund Mrs B the amount of the disputed transactions and any fees of charges 
associated with them; and
Pay 8% simple interest per annum, on any overpayments Mrs B has made to the 
account (less any lawfully deductible tax); and
Remove any negative information provided to credit reference agencies in relation to 
these payments, if any was recorded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman