DRN-3216766
The complaint
Miss J complains Perspective (South) Limited (Perspective) didnt manage her investment 
despite receiving ongoing commission.
What happened
In February 2012, Miss J agreed to pay initial and ongoing commission concerning her 
investment of approximately £500,000 to her adviser. The same year, the adviser moved his 
business to Key Pensions and Investments (Key), an appointed representative of 
Perspective (South) Limited (Perspective).
In October 2016, Miss J wrote to her investment provider to query payments made to Key. 
The provider explained it had terminated its agreement with the initial firm linked to the 
adviser in December 2013 and passed on the servicing rights to Key. But because of an 
error, it had failed to transfer this over correctly. The provider informed Miss J this had now 
been rectified and that any commission it owed to Key from 2014 had since been paid.
In summer 2018, Key was renamed Perspective (Avon) Ltd, a subsidiary of Perspective 
(South) Limited. And in December 2018, it sent a letter to Miss J to explain that her adviser 
was leaving. The letter provided details of who would be servicing the investment going 
forwards.
In March 2020, Miss J removed Perspective from her investment. Following this, in May 
2020, she raised a complaint for the following reasons:
Shed received no contact or advice from Perspective
Perspective ought to have provided an annual review of her circumstances
Perspective hadnt been involved in managing her investment including two 
withdrawals made between 2019 and 2020
Miss J asked Perspective to refund the commission it had received - equivalent to 0.5% of 
her portfolio - from July 2018 until March 2020.
Perspective looked into Miss Js concerns. It explained the original agreement Miss J had 
signed in February 2012 set out that no further advice would be provided unless requested. 
As Miss J hadnt been in touch since July 2018, it maintained that it hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Unhappy with this, Miss J referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint. He explained hed reviewed the client agreement which set out reviews 
needed to have been requested by Miss J. So, he didnt think Perspective needed to do 
anything more. 
Miss J disagreed with the investigator. She said Perspective hadnt reached out following the 
service mandate changing, so she thought it wasnt fair for Perspective to be entitled to the 
commission. She also questioned why when the provider cancelled the commission, 
Perspective didnt query this with her or the provider.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of the comments made by both 
parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the central issues.
Miss J says that her relationship with adviser prior to his departure illustrates that of an 
ongoing nature- she says he would regularly communicate with her and provide advice 
including sending valuations and reports. So, my starting point is to consider the original 
client agreement Miss J signed with the initial advising firm, which I consider remains valid 
for this investment when the adviser moved to Perspective. The following excerpt provides 
information about what services were being provided and on what basis:
Ongoing Advice
When we have arranged any product for you we will not give you any further advice unless 
you request it but we will be glad to advise you at any time should you ask us to do so.
I find these terms clear. They suggest the service Miss J would receive wasnt of an ongoing 
nature and that if she wanted a review of her portfolio, the onus was on her to request one. 
So, whilst I appreciate Miss Js strength of feeling, Ive not seen anything in the agreement 
or in any other contemporaneous evidence to suggest the service would include conducting 
proactive reviews. Miss J also hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support her 
relationship required Perspective to act beyond what was outlined above. As such, given the 
contents of the agreement in place, I dont think it would be fair for Perspective to be liable 
for not giving Miss J advice when she hadnt sought it. And theres no evidence of any other 
separate service agreement Prospective said it would provide in respect of her investment 
portfolio. 
Miss J says Perspective hasnt been in contact with her since the service mandate changed, 
and no further contact was made following the adviser leaving. Perspective says Miss J was 
sent a letter in December 2018. It hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the letter it 
sent to Miss J, but it has provided us with a template of the letter it sent to its customers 
explaining Miss Js adviser was leaving. This details who would now be servicing the 
portfolio and inviting her to make contact if and when required.
While Ive not seen the letter sent to Miss J, in the absence of other evidence I think the 
template letter is useful evidence I can take into account when deciding what is likely to have 
happened. On balance, Im satisfied that she is likely to have received notification of the 
change in adviser. In any event, the key consideration in this case is whether Miss J knew of 
Perspective servicing her investments and I think that she did. I say this because Miss J has 
shared a copy of the letter the provider sent her in October 2016. In it, Miss J is made aware 
Perspective (formerly Key) was servicing her investment so I think its reasonable to expect 
she could have contacted it directly when she wanted advice and/ or make withdrawals on 
the investment.
Miss J doesnt think Perspective has earned the commission its been paid. Because of this, 
in 2020, she asked the provider to remove Perspective from her account. I can appreciate 
Miss J doesnt want Perspective to keep the commission it received after the adviser left 2018, but even if she had removed it at that point, it would have had no financial bearing on 
Miss Js investment. I say this because Miss J wouldnt have received the commission nor a 
reduction in provider charges if the commission hadnt been paid.
I understand Miss J will be disappointed with my decision here but taking everything into 
account, Im not asking Perspective to refund any fees as I dont think it has treated Miss J 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint 
against Perspective (South) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman