DRN-1545390
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has incorrectly charged him interest on his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr D says he has been incorrectly charged interest by HSBC over a number of years 
following a balance transfer. He says he has made a number of calls to it and HSBC 
previously refunded interest. Mr D says in April 2019 he was again incorrectly charged 
interest and would like that refunded and compensation for the problems over the last four 
years. He also says he didn't agree to the balance transfer terms and conditions that 
HSBC created.
HSBC accepts it made errors at the start of the agreement and says it created a new 
balance transfer in order to sort out the problem. It says it issued final response letters to Mr 
D at the time and says the interest free period has now ended and that is why interest is now 
being charged. HSBC doesn't accept making a mistake by charging interest and that Mr D 
needs to pay the full account balance each month to avoid any interest charges.
Mr D brought his compliant to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought we couldn't look at the previous complaints as Mr D had brought them to us too late 
for us to consider.  The investigator thought the balance transfer interest free period had 
ended in early 2019 and that is why HSBC was now charging interest, and so hadn't made a 
mistake. And that Mr D would have agreed to the account terms and conditions when the 
account was opened.
Mr D doesn't accept that view and says he shouldn't be paying interest. He says 
HSBC revised the terms of the original agreement and it agreed that the balance would be 
repaid by the end of the interest free period and that it would allocate payments to make 
sure that was done. He says HSBC didn't tell him the amount he needed to pay and it was 
up to HSBC not to make a mistake. Mr D also says a new term for the balance transfer 
wasn't agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I make clear to Mr D that I can't look at his complaints about what has taken place before 
2019. As the investigator has explained, HSBC issued final responses to those complaints 
and gave Mr D six months to bring any complaint to us. Mr D did not do so and under our 
rules I can't look at those complaints. In any event I can see that Mr D's complaint is about 
what took place in early 2019. And doesn't say I should be able to look at the earlier 
complaints. Mr D has given us information about the events of the previous four years to provide background to his complaint. 
I accept that the background is not clear and that there were  problems at the start of the 
agreement that meant HSBC created a new balance transfer. But I'm satisfied that Mr D 
agreed to the account terms and conditions when the account was opened and that the 0% 
interest period was for a specific time period of 32 months that was increased to 34 months. 
I'm satisfied that time period ended in early 2019, and so I don't think HSBC made a mistake 
or acted unfairly by charging interest on the balance transfer that was still outstanding.
I appreciate Mr D says that HSBC agreed to spread the balance transfer amount over the 
interest free period and also agreed to allocate payments to make sure the balance was paid 
off to avoid interest. But I can't see any evidence of that agreement on HSBC's records and I 
think it unlikely HSBC would have agreed to such an arrangement. I think on balance HSBC 
agreed to increase the interest free period and agreed to monitor Mr D's account for any 
errors when it made the mistakes. I can also see that the account statements contained 
details of the balance transfer amount, and I would have expected Mr D to have seen that 
information and managed the account to avoid any interest if he wished.
Overall I'm satisfied HSBC hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly by charging interest 
when the promotional term ended. I accept Mr D may have been confused by what was 
agreed when the mistakes took place. But I can't fairly hold HSBC responsible for that, and 
in any event I have explained that I find the account statements contained details of the 
balance transfer owed each month. It follows that I can't fairly order HSBC to refund the 
interest as Mr D would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman