DRN-2795385
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) delayed a
transfer of his stocks and shares ISA to a new provider, which led to him incurring a financial 
loss.
What happened
HL received a sale and transfer request from the new provider on 24 February 2020. On 5
March 2020 Mr M called HL to find out the status of the request. He was very concerned that
his investments had not yet been sold, as their prices had fallen and were continuing to do
so. He noted that a corresponding ISA transfer on behalf of his wife requested from a
different provider at the same time had already completed.
The call handler explained that HL was experiencing backlogs of work. He said that he
couldnt contact the team that would deal with the sales as it was too late in the day, but he
would pass a message to them with an aim to getting the sales completed as soon as
possible. He also confirmed that a complaint would be raised about the matter.
Mr Ms investments remained unsold over the subsequent days and he made various
attempts to contact HL at a senior level. On 16 March 2020 he was called by HL and given
an update on the situation. It was confirmed that the sales would be placed the following
day, 17 March 2020, and the proceeds paid to the new provider over the next few days when
the sales settled. Mr M was also told that the delay would be investigated, and steps taken to
address any loss that he may have incurred.
On 25 March Mr M received a final response letter from HL acknowledging that the standard
of service it had provided during the transfer had fallen short and offering a sincere apology.
The letter went on to explain that it would consider the loss situation if Mr M provided
information regarding how hed reinvested once the transfer had completed. HL also offered
Mr M £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M replied to HL, setting out in more detail what he felt had gone wrong, the efforts hed
gone to in trying to rectify the problem and what he saw as appropriate method of
determining compensation in terms of the loss incurred.
On 1 April 2020 HL issued a further final response letter to Mr M. This explained that its view
of the matter had changed. It still accepted that the transfer had taken longer than it
shouldve done, and it again apologised. But HL stressed that the transfer had nevertheless
completed within the 30-calendar day limit set out in the guidance issued by The
Investing and Saving Alliance (TISA). HL said that Mr M couldve taken steps to mitigate his
position by requesting the investments be sold when hed contacted it to chase up the
transfer, so it shouldnt be held responsible for any loss. It did, however, offer to increase the
payment for the trouble and upset caused to £500.
Mr M referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the matter and
concluded that HL had taken an unreasonable amount of time to initiate the sale of the
holdings.
He recommended the complaint be upheld, and that HL make a comparison of the position
Mr M wouldve been in if the sales and settlements had occurred earlier, using hypothetical
dates of 11 March 2020 for settlement of the sales and 13 March 2020 for reinvestment.
HL didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in brief:
The transfer had met HMRCs guideline of 30 days.
Mr M hadnt asked for the sales to be made when hed contacted HL, despite him
being aware they hadnt yet completed.
The sales and transfer had taken place as soon as was practical.
It was therefore unreasonable to pluck hypothetical alternative dates out of the air.
Mr M had been seeking an expedited transfer, but one was not guaranteed, and in
the circumstances the £500 HL had offered was fair.
The investigator had used the wrong ISA transfer guidance to determine the
hypothetical dates.
The investigator remained of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld, so the matter
was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
In short, I think the complaint should be upheld. I take HLs point about the transfer having
completed within the 30-day time limit and there having been no other guarantee of timing
given to Mr M when the transfer was set in motion. But, despite that, I think its clear that HL
failed to provide Mr M with a reasonable level of service  something that it appears to have
accepted  and had it handled the matter in more reasonable manner, its likely the sales of
Mr Ms investments and the transfer wouldve been made earlier.
As noted, there was no guarantee given to Mr M or the new provider that the sale of the
investments would be carried out in a particular time frame after receipt of the instruction on
24 February 2020. But at the point at which Mr M called on 5 March 2020, eight working
days after receipt of the transfer instruction, HL was clearly put on notice that he was deeply
unhappy with the situation and felt, not unreasonably, that the sales should already have 
been completed. This was clearly an opportunity for HL to put matters right.
In respect of HLs point that Mr M couldve mitigated his position at this point or when he
subsequently had to chase up again, as he was welcome to trade at any point, I dont think
its reasonable to place responsibility on him for mitigating HLs acknowledged failings  its
backlog.
I accept that on the 5 March 2020 call Mr M wasnt given a guarantee as to how quickly the
sales would be completed. But I think he was certainly given the impression that action
would be taken promptly as a result of his intervention. In short, there was no reason why HL
couldnt itself have mitigated the situation. I dont think its fair to say that Mr M could or
should have placed an instruction to sell at any time given that is precisely what he had
already done by way of the written instruction HL had received on 24 February 2020.
And, further, I think that if HL had told Mr M on 5 March 2020 that, having already failed to
act on his sale instruction for eight working days, rather than prompt action being taken, it
was actually going to take a further eight working days before the sales would be made, then
Mr M would most likely have acted. I think the lack of clear explanation of what was
happening, how bad HLs backlog was, on 5 March 2020 robbed Mr M of the opportunity to
take action for himself  albeit he shouldnt really have been put in the position of having to.So, while the transfer may have completed just within the maximum time limit required for
this type of transaction, I nevertheless feel that in the specific circumstances of Mr Ms
transfer request, HL acted unreasonably.
In respect of how the matter should be put right, I think  as is usual with this type of
situation  that the resolution should be based upon determining a hypothetical alternative to
what happened. What would Mr Ms position be if the transfer had been dealt with in a more
reasonable, timely manner?
The investigators proposal for compensation broadly sought to do this by looking at what
date Mr Ms investments might have sold on if HL had acted differently. I think for the sake of
fairness the compensation should also take into account how Mr M re-invested. Im satisfied
there is clear evidence that it was Mr Ms intention to re-invest and that he did so when he
was eventually able to. So, it will be reasonably straightforward to determine the number of
units he should hold, had the sales completed sooner.
In respect of which dates should be used, I dont think its fair to assume that the sales
wouldve taken place immediately upon receipt of the transfer instruction. As HL has said, it
offered no guarantee that would happen, and I dont think its a reasonable expectation in
terms of normal industry practice. But I do think its reasonable to conclude that the sales
shouldve been placed by 6 March 2020 at the latest, following Mr Ms phone call to HL. Had
this been the case, reinvestment couldve taken place on 13 March, as the investigator
indicated. This broadly tallies with when Mr M has said he would likely have re-invested.
That said, this is a provisional decision and Im happy to look at alternative proposals for
which dates should be used, prior to issuing a final decision.
HL responded to my provisional decision to confirm it had nothing it wished to add. 
Mr M provided some further comments, prompted in the main by my suggestion that I would 
consider alternatives dates for the sales and reinvestment. He broadly accepted 6 March 
2020 as the sales date but suggested a slightly later date for reinvestment of 18 March 2020. 
This was on the basis that hed always intended to leave some space between this and 
some other earlier investment. 
I considered Mr Ms comments and was persuaded that the alternative reinvestment date 
was a reasonable suggestion  one that was both plausible and supported by evidence. The 
proposed date also represented a compromise on Mr Ms part as he actually felt hed have 
re-invested later. So, I was satisfied the date was a fair one to use in all the circumstances. 
Mr Ms proposal was put to HL. It confirmed that, on the basis I felt the date was plausible 
and supported by evidence, it was happy to accept it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the further comments made in response to my provisional decision, I 
remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld, and compensation paid to Mr M, but 
now based on the revised reinvestment date of 18 March 2020, as explained above. 
Putting things right
HL should compare the position Mr M would be in if the investments held in his ISA had been sold on 6 March 2020 and the proceeds reinvested with the new provider on 18 March 
2020. 
HL should determine the number of units the reinvestment of the proceeds on 18 March 
2020 would have bought and if that number is greater that the number of units Mr M did 
purchase, HL should pay to Mr M an amount in cash equivalent to the current purchase price 
of the additional units. 
HL has confirmed that it is able to credit any loss to Mr Ms ISA as a restitution payment and 
transfer this cash to his new provider. Doing so will ensure the sum will be retained within 
the ISA wrapper. It should add the cash amount, equivalent to the value of any additional 
units Mr M wouldve purchased, to his HL ISA and transfer this to the new provider.
HL should also pay Mr M £500 for the trouble and upset caused, if this has not already been 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman