DRN-2904836
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited, trading as Sanlam Wealth, 
wrongly advised him to take out its long-term savings plan when the 10-year renewable one 
would have been more suitable and cheaper.
What happened
In November 1988 a fact find was completed. This showed Mr M was 34. He was
employed as an advertising executive earning £20,000 and received a net monthly income 
of £1,100. He had £10,000 in deposit accounts and two £10,000 investments taken out in 
1984 and 1985.
On 10 March 1989 he completed the Savings Programme application form. This showed he 
was married and wanted to contribute £50 a month towards the policy. 100% of the 
contributions went towards the Merchant Investors M.I. Managed Fund. The illustration 
showed the Savings Programme started on 23 March 1989. The sum assured was 
£1,350.00 and it would last until his 65th birthday.
On 23 January 2007 Mr M stopped paying the monthly contribution towards the
programme. On 16 February 2007 he surrendered the policy and received £17,036.37.
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to conclude that the 
recommendation had been appropriate, noting:
The terms and condition of the Savings Programme say its a whole of life unit-linked policy. 
Consumers pay contributions until the age of 65 or for 10 years, if longer. It also provides a 
life assurance benefit which is payable on death, at any time before the all the savings have 
been withdrawn. The programme is designed to be a long-term investment and a consumer 
will get the best return after 25 years.
Whilst I dont know what his monthly disposable income was, I think the investment was 
affordable. I say this because the amount he was paying was relatively low and he was able 
to maintain the payments for 18 years.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr M didnt want to invest for the long term. As there
was no mention about how long he wanted to invest for or that he was investing for a 
specific purpose. In 1999 he was reminded that the investment was designed to be held for 
the long term and he kept the programme for an additional eight years.
Mr M confirmed his attitude to risk was medium. The MI Managed fund factsheet says the
fund will mainly invest in equity shares, commercial property, fixed interest stocks and cash.
And the fund was rated as being medium risk. So I think this fund was in line with his attitude 
to risk.
Ive reviewed the information from the time about the Investment Programme. It does have
lower charges, and also includes life assurance benefit. However the MI Managed Fund 
wasnt available with the Investment Programme. So if he had invested in the Investment 
programme, he may not have received the return he did as the other funds may not have 
performed as well.
Sanlam has confirmed the life cover costs would have been the same with both 
programmes. So on this occasion I dont think the reduced charges alone is enough to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr Ms representative disagreed, and said:
Mr M was under the impression he was saving for around 10 years, his risk appetite was 
medium, he had no investments and was earning approx. £20k. He has stated Accruing a 
savings "pot" in preparation for middle-age was the prime objective of the
investment and not up until taking my Pension.
It also said it had brought hundreds of complaints about this long-term savings product to 
this service and 99% had been upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
I acknowledge that this service has frequently concluded that Sanlam was wrong to 
recommend a savings/life assurance plan which needed to be maintained for decades to 
deliver a worthwhile return given the way charges were structured.
However, in this case I dont think there is sufficient evidence to safely say that it was wrong 
to recommend the plan to Mr M. Unlike many of its clients, Mr M was in his mid-thirties, with 
a profession and an income which made it not unreasonable to consider long-term savings 
plans. 
Theres no evidence to indicate that a £50 a month contribution was likely to prove 
unaffordable. Mr M maintained the plan for 18 years and probably surrendered it due to poor 
returns rather than affordability issues. I have considered Mr Ms recent comments about 
why he took out the plan and his expectation that he would cash it in after 10 years but I note 
that the documentation does explain the nature of the required commitment and see no 
reason why Mr M would not have understood this. As there is no record of what, if any, 
discussions were held at the time, I cant be certain as to what the advisor said or explained.
As such, I am not persuaded that the evidence warrants upholding this complaint.
  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman