DRN-3186334
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was advised to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
benefits to a Flexible Pension Plan (FPP). He says he was treated as a professional client 
even though he wasnt one. He believes First With Mortgages Limited (First Mortgages) 
trading as Martin Hirst Financial Consultancy (MHFC) failed to act with the duty of care  
required when dealing with a retail client.
What happened
The transfer statement from Mr Ws ceding scheme appears to have been faxed to the 
adviser at MHFC on 13 January 2010, the statement had been issued by the scheme on 
30 November 2009. The transfer statement confirmed that the deferred benefits would 
provide a basic pension of £326.08 per month at his normal retirement date.
An illustration was prepared by the receiving scheme, this set out that just under £73,000 
was to be transferred into the FPP. The funds transferred were to go into cash. Under 
charges it noted that the provider would charge a 1.5% annual management charge and that 
an additional 0.5% per year would be charged to cover the monthly fund-related commission 
paid to the adviser. It also confirmed that initial commission of £2,914.99 (4%) would be paid 
to the adviser for arranging the plan.
On 12 February 2010, Mr W signed a transfer payment form, on the first page of this there is 
a section to be completed by the financial adviser. In this section the adviser has ticked the 
box denoting that he didnt give Mr W advice when he chose to set up this plan. On the 
same day, Mr W signed the discharge forms for the OPS and a form consenting to MHFC 
processing his personal information.
A client agreement between Mr W and MHFC was signed on the same day appointing it as 
his financial adviser. This confirmed that Mr W was to be treated as a retail client. Under 
investment services the agreement says:
Martin Hirst Financial Services is permitted to advise on, and arrange (bring about)
deals in investments. With regard to investments which we have arranged for you,
these will not be under review, but we will advise you upon your request.
And under investment objectives & restrictions:
Following the issue of this document, any subsequent advice or recommendation 
offered to you will be based on your stated investment objectives, acceptable level of 
risk and any restrictions you wish to place on the type of investments or policies you 
are willing to consider.
The fact-find was filled out, also on 12 February 2010, this confirmed that:
Mr W was employed as a regional sales manager.
He intended to retire at 65.
He had an outstanding mortgage of £80,000.
He had four pensions, these all appear to have been workplace pensions.
Limited advice was being provided in relation to the pension only (this was out of 
three options; full advice, limited advice or execution only).
A lot of the fact-find was left blank. The attitude to risk questions were completed.
Mr W signed a declaration  which was sent to MHFC  confirming that he had received his 
policy document on 2 July 2010.
On 11 September 2012, Mr W wrote to MHFC confirming:
Further to our recent meetings I can confirm that as a qualified financial adviser and 
manager with [name of employer] I have received no advice from [name of adviser] 
and Martin Hirst Financial Consultancy in connection with setting up my Sipp with the 
[name of SIPP provider]. I wish to transfer my existing pension with [name of FPP 
provider] to the [name of SIPP provider]. I am fully aware of any guarantees which I 
have given up on my existing plans.
On 25 September 2012, Mr W wrote to MHFC again asking it to arrange an investment 
within his SIPP:
Please can you arrange to invest £50,000 held within my [name of SIPP provider] 
cash account into the Investec Defensive Kick Out Plan 4. I have received no advice 
from [name of adviser] and Martin Hirst Financial Consultancy in connection with the 
investment request in this letter.
Mr W signed an Elective Professional Client Notice on 13 November 2012. This set out, 
amongst other things, that:
We are required to classify you under the Financial Services Authoritys (FSA) 
Conduct of Business rules because we will carry out designated investment business 
for you. Where we have categorised you as a retail client, you may request re-
categorisation as an elective professional client'.
We reserve the right to agree to such a re-categorisation on a case-by-case basis. In 
determining whether it is appropriate to agree to such a request we will take into 
account a number of factors, including:
your knowledge and understanding of the investments, markets and risks 
involved;
the length of time that you have been active in the relevant markets, the 
frequency of transactions and the extent to which you rely on our advice: and
the size and nature of other transactions you have undertaken.
This notice sets out the protections that will no longer be available and we require 
you to confirm in writing that you are aware of the consequences of losing them and 
wish to be treated as an elective professional client.
In 2013 the servicing rights for the plan were transferred to Mr Ws existing MHFC advisers 
new firm.
Mr W raised a complaint about the transfer in 2018. MHFC didnt uphold his complaint. It 
said that Mr W as an industry professional chose to complete this transaction without advice 
as he had knowledge of the risks involved. The transfer was completed on an insistent client execution only basis and Mr W confirmed this in writing. Its adviser facilitated the FPP after 
Mr W had made the decision to transfer. Mr W also received £874.50 in line with the 
introducer agreement MHFC had with his employer.
Unhappy with its response Mr W referred his complaint to this service, in summary, he said:
He was advised to transfer his OPS.
At the time he had no qualifications or experience in pensions.
He has since developed his knowledge in the area, and this shed light on the advice 
he received.
He was classified as a professional client despite having no experience in pensions.
He wasnt advised what he was giving up, there was no comparison or TVAS 
provided.
MHFC had a duty of care to provide this information.
Its advice has left him severely financially disadvantaged, he has lost all of his 
defined benefits.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view, in two separate submissions he said:
Everything was led from him being a professional client, which it had been agreed he 
wasnt. He had no expertise in pensions and the transfer shouldnt have been 
progressed in this manner.
MHFC prepared a fact-find, risk profile and illustration with no information about the 
benefits he was giving up. Why would the adviser prepare a fact-find if they were not 
going to give advice?
He wouldnt have transferred his pension on his own accord unless MHFC had 
approached him saying it was the right thing to do  he wasnt looking to transfer and 
didnt approach MHFC.
Our investigator responded to both submissions, briefly, he said:
Whilst he agreed that Mr W was neither a professional client nor an insistent client, 
he didnt think that he had been given regulated advice in relation to the transfer.
At the time, even where a consumer wasnt a professional client a transfer could still 
be processed on an execution-only basis.
Although Mr W may not have been a professional client, he thought he wouldve had 
better knowledge of advice processes than most retail clients.
The transfer payment form clearly noted that no advice had been given and this was 
signed by Mr W. This complied with the regulators rules on non-advised transfers.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this case was passed to me for review.
I asked both Mr W and MHFC for further comments on the transfer process.
What Mr W said:
My recollection of the sale, was I was told by the adviser that it would be in my best 
interest to transfer for a better pension in retirement, I transferred the pension as I 
was told it was the thing to do, I didnt choose the fund or platform to transfer to, the 
adviser decided this and proceeded.As I had no experience of pension transfer business at all, I followed the advice of 
the adviser, I now know how I would have benefitted from a full assessment of what I 
was giving up. Advice was never offered as an option, just this is how we get you a 
better pension I had no knowledge or experience of the process for this type of 
business, as at [name of employer] we didnt sell pensions at all never mind 
transfers, we were simply not in that market, we were only licensed for investment 
and protection sales. So my knowledge and experience was zero.
[Full name of adviser] was the IFA we referred [name of employer] customers to who 
needed Pension advice.
Yes I signed the form but I had no idea of what I was giving up, just [Full name of 
adviser]s word it was the right thing to do.
He was treated as a professional client even though he wasnt one.
A fact-find, risk profile and illustration were completed but no information about what 
he was giving up was given.
Its not reasonable to start an advised process and then switch to non-advised.
He wouldnt have transferred his pension on his own accord if MHFC hadnt 
approached him.
What MHFC has said:
It didnt provide any advice in respect of the pension transfer.
It has never given OPS transfer advice.
Mr W was an experienced industry professional and was fully aware of the 
procedures followed.
The process followed was execution-only. The adviser completed only a limited fact-
find.
On the same day Mr W signed a client agreement, completed the application form for 
the FPP and signed the transfer documents.
Mr W faxed the transfer paperwork for his OPS, including the transfer value, the day 
after this showing that no advice was given. Mr W had already decided to transfer on 
an execution-only basis.
Mr W knew the FPP was competitively priced from his experience referring clients to 
MHFC and seeing the advice they received.
It didnt have enough information to give advice, it didnt even have the transfer value 
until after the paperwork was completed.
The forms were completed on an execution-only basis to expedite the process for a 
professional client.
An attitude to risk questionnaire was completed after this in February 2010 and it was 
solely in relation to the subsequent investment that it provided advice, after the funds 
had been received in the FPP.
In 2012 Mr W conducted further business through it on an execution-only basis, as 
confirmed by the declarations provided.
Mr W and the adviser had a close relationship, they had regular contact and 
meetings to discuss opportunities for mutual clients and feedback on cases referred.
In 2013, Mr W stopped being its client when the adviser left it, so it assumed he went 
over to the advisers new firm.
Mr W was in charge of a team of financial advisers at the business he worked for, he 
would clearly have been aware of the referrals he made, and the products 
subsequently recommended to them. His employer received commission for all of the 
referrals but in this instance Mr W received the commission (£874.50) himself.I sent Mr W and MHFC my original provisional decision on 18 May 2021, I set out why I 
thought the complaint should be upheld and invited both parties to submit anything else they 
would like me to consider. Briefly, I found that: 
Its more likely than not that MHFC advised Mr W to transfer his OPS benefits to an 
FPP;
If I am wrong about this, I think it at least advised on the FPP and subsequent 
investment, in order to give suitable advice in respect of this it ought to have 
considered the source of funds [the transfer of his OPS benefits];
The transfer of Mr Ws OPS benefits wasnt suitable; and
Mr W would most likely have listened to suitable advice.
The responses to my original provisional decision: 
Mr W accepted my decision. MHFC disagreed and made further submissions. MHFC 
provided a number of responses. Ive read all of these in their entirety. Here Ive summarised 
the key points raised within those submissions. Briefly, MHFC said: 
The complaint has been brought out of time, given Mr Ws industry experience and 
that he has increased his knowledge in respect of pensions and that hes received 
annual statements, he wouldve been aware he had cause for complaint more than 
three years before he raised this complaint.  
It didnt consent to us considering the complaint if it was brought out of time, it only 
consented to us considering the complaint on the basis that it had been brought in 
time, but it no longer thought that was the case. It had never consented to waiving 
the applicable time limits. 
In 2012 Mr W signed an elective professional client notice, confirming that no advice 
had been given as he was a professional adviser, if this was incorrect and he didnt 
agree that this was the basis on which the service was provided in 2010, he ought to 
have raised a complaint at that stage. 
Mr W wasnt advised to transfer his OPS, he was aware of this and the 
contemporaneous evidence supports this. He is now simply trying to get a pay-out. 
The elective professional client notice signed on 13 November 2012, was signed 
retrospectively by Mr W in relation to this transaction.
The letter signed in September 2012 stating he had received no advice on the 
pension transfers related to the execution-only OPS transfer. 
Mr W received part of the commission paid for the transfer and he signed the transfer 
form saying he hadnt received advice. 
It didnt give OPS transfer advice and didnt have enough information to give advice 
in this case, in any event. 
Mr W drove the transfer from an informed position on an execution-only insistent 
client basis.
A risk-profile and illustration were completed for the investment advice on the 
subsequent transfer amount. The source of the funds was irrelevant as the transfer 
had already completed on execution-only basis.  
Our investigator exchanged a number of emails with MHFC relating to consent and our 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. He explained that once provided, consent cant be 
withdrawn. MHFC disagreed. In the circumstances, in the interests of moving the complaint 
forward, I decided to consider whether or not the complaint had been brought in time. I 
addressed this and MHFCs responses to my original provisional findings on the merits of 
the complaint in my second provisional decision. I issued my second provisional decision on 18 October 2021. I explained why I thought the 
complaint had been brought in time and why I remained of the view that it should be upheld, 
taking into consideration all of the submissions made to date. 
Mr W accepted my findings. MHFC didnt. MHFC argued that if I didnt change my view of 
the complaint and find that it shouldnt be upheld, then I should grant its hearing request. It 
also resubmitted its previous submissions on the complaint and highlighted that Mr W 
received £874.50 of the £2,914.99 commission paid to MHFC, which it says explains why he 
went to it for pension plan and investment advice having already decided to transfer his 
OPS. 
I wrote to MHFC separately explaining that I didnt think a hearing was required for me to 
fairly decide this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all of MHFCs submissions, including its latest comments. Having carefully 
considered these submissions my findings remain as set out in my previous decisions. So, 
Ive broadly reiterated my findings from my previous decisions below  and, where Ive felt it 
appropriate, expanded on these to reflect my consideration of MHFCs submissions. 
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
I must first decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules 
that apply. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules are 
referred to as DISP.
DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 

In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint where it has been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; or, if later,
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within the applicable time limits.
It is not in dispute that the event happened more than six years before the complaint was 
raised. So, Ive focused on whether or not Mr W became  or ought reasonably to have 
become  aware of his cause for complaint more than three years before he referred the 
complaint. 
MHFCs arguments as to why the complaint has been brought too late focus on Mr Ws 
knowledge of pensions increasing over the years through his work and the qualifications hes 
obtained and the annual statements hes received in respect of his pension. Weve been 
provided with a list of the qualifications Mr W has obtained and he hadnt obtained any 
pension qualifications more than three years before the complaint was raised. 
Ive reviewed the annual pension statements Mr W received. The only statements showing a 
lower projected income than that quoted on the deferred benefit statement more than three 
years before the complaint was raised were issued in 2014 and 2015 respectively. By that 
time, Mr Ws pension had been switched to a different type of pension than that which he 
transferred out to. The retirement age was different as was the type of income. Additional 
benefits were also included, such as a 50% spouses pension. Taking all of this into account, 
Im not persuaded that it would reasonably have been apparent to Mr W that he may have 
lost out as a result of the transfer or that the transfer hadnt been suitable for him. 
I also dont think there is a particular event due to which, or point in time at which, Mr W had 
cause to revert to his deferred benefit statement to compare the benefits he wouldve 
received from the scheme to those he was likely to receive. 
Taking everything into account, I think the complaint has been brought in time. Having found 
this complaint is one we can consider, Ive gone on to reconsider the merits of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why  merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress 
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The evidence from the point of transfer is limited and the accounts from the parties to the 
complaint are conflicting. Ive reconsidered all of the evidence we do have along with the 
submissions that have been made in relation to the complaint, but I remain of the view that it 
isnt clear that the transfer went ahead on an execution-only basis or that no advice was 
being provided. 
Did MHFC advise Mr W to transfer his pension?
Mr W says that MHFC recommended that he transfer his OPS to an FPP and said that it 
would be in his best interests. Whereas MHFC says that it only facilitated the transfer on an 
execution-only basis and the only advice it gave was in relation to the subsequent 
investment made.
A suitability report doesnt appear to have been issued but a basic fact-find and risk profile 
assessment were completed. MHFC were paid 4% initial commission and 0.5% ongoing 
commission, although Mr W did receive part of the commission back in line with the 
introducer agreement his employer had with the firm.
The client agreement signed was for investment advice and, at the time of advice 
complained about, Mr W was categorised as a retail client. The fact-find had three options 
listed in terms of the type of transaction being undertaken: full advice, limited advice and 
execution-only  the adviser ticked limited advice and next to this wrote pension only. This 
evidence doesnt support the process having been an execution-only transaction.
On balance I think it is most likely that MHFC did recommend that Mr W transfer his OPS to 
an FPP and invest the funds as he subsequently did. The process followed wasnt a normal 
advisory process; for example, the absence of a suitability report. But Im not persuaded that 
this is conclusive evidence that the transaction wasnt advised  the other contemporaneous 
evidence, along with Mr Ws testimony, supports the transaction being advised on by MHFC.
Mr W did work in finance, although at the time he wasnt a qualified pension adviser. So, I 
would expect him to understand what a normal advice process looks like. Equally, its 
possible that the process followed was less formal because of Mr Ws position and 
relationship with the adviser and, that he felt comfortable with this for the same reason. Mr W 
did go on to sign an elective professional client form, but this was over two years after the 
events that are the subject of this complaint.
Within the transfer payment form, in a section to be completed by the financial adviser, the 
adviser ticked the box denoting that he didnt give Mr W advice when he chose to set up this 
plan. Aside from this section, which as I said was completed by the adviser, and the absence 
of a suitability report there is no indication that a non-advised or execution-only process was 
followed. At very least, Im satisfied that MHFC advised Mr W on the receiving pension 
(FPP) and on how it was to be invested. If MHFC did limit its advice in that way, it ought 
reasonably to have taken into account the source of the funds and I dont think it could give 
suitable advice without doing so.Its accepted that some advice was requested and given in relation how the pension should 
be invested after transfer. MHFC has pointed to the lack of information gathered and the 
absence of paperwork as evidence that it didnt and couldnt have given advice on the 
transfer but the paperwork relating to the advice it accepts was provided is also limited. 
Overall, whilst its clear that a normal advice process wasnt followed here  and its not 
entirely clear why  I dont agree that this is conclusive evidence that advice wasnt being 
provided in relation to the wider transaction. 
MHFC has referenced a number of declarations signed in 2012 over two years after the 
transfer that is the subject of this complaint. Its said that one of these was signed 
retrospectively in relation to the transfer because it refers to guarantees and the plans 
switched at that time didnt have any guarantees. 
The 11 September 2012 declaration, for example, said: 
Further to our recent meetings I can confirm that as a qualified financial adviser and 
manager at [name of employer] I have received no advice from [name of adviser] and 
Martin Hirst Financial Consultancy in connection with setting up my Sipp with [name 
of SIPP provider]. I wish to transfer my existing pension with [name of FPP provider] 
to the [name of SIPP provider]. I am fully aware of any guarantees which I have given 
up on my existing plans.
I think this clearly relates to the 2012 switch from the plan Mr W transferred his OPS benefits 
into to a SIPP. The products the declaration is in relation to are named, so Im not persuaded 
that this was retrospectively signed/completed in relation to the 2010 transfer. The elective 
professional client declarations also post-date the transfer by over two years and I dont think 
these were intended to relate to previous transactions. 
Whilst this hasnt been determinative in my consideration of the complaint, I think its worth 
noting that at the time the involvement of an independent financial adviser wasnt required to 
transfer out of an OPS. So, if Mr W didnt require advice or assistance and had sufficient 
knowledge about pensions, its not clear why he would elect to pay for the services of MHFC 
(4% of the transfer value) or require advice on the investments upon transfer. I acknowledge 
that Mr W did receive some of the money deducted for advice under the introductory 
agreement with MHFC. But, I dont think this explains why Mr W would be happy for 4% to 
be deducted from his pension for advice, given the sums involved and that I havent seen 
any evidence that he had a significant need for this money. 
If the transfer was undertaken on an execution-only or insistent client basis as has been 
claimed, I would reasonably expect this to have been clearly documented by MHFC. Thats 
not the case here. As noted above, the only reference to the receiving scheme not having 
been recommended is within the transfer payment form, in a section to be completed by the 
financial adviser, the adviser ticked the box denoting that he didnt give Mr W advice when 
he chose to set up this plan. And, the fact-find had three options listed in terms of the type of 
transaction being undertaken: full advice, limited advice and execution-only  the adviser 
ticked limited advice and next to this wrote pension only. This evidence doesnt support the 
process having been an execution-only transaction. What Mr W says about what happened 
also doesnt point to the process having been non-advised. 
Taking everything into account I still think its more likely than not that MHFC was advising 
Mr W on the transfer. And, as above, even if the advice was limited to the receiving scheme 
and subsequent investments, I dont think MHFC could limit its advice in this way and ensure 
that it was providing suitable advice. So, I think that MHFC ought reasonably to have 
considered the source of the funds and the suitability of transferring these, even if it did limit 
its advice to the receiving scheme and subsequent investment. MHFC has said that investment advice was provided once the transfer had been completed on an execution-only 
basis, so the source of the funds wasnt relevant, but I dont think the sequence of events or 
the paperwork provided points to such a separation in events. 
Ive found that MHFC most likely advised Mr W to transfer his OPS to an FPP. And, if it 
didnt, it ought reasonably to have taken the suitability of this into account, so that it could 
give suitable advice in respect of the receiving scheme and the subsequent investment if it 
did limit its advice in this way. So, Ive gone on to consider whether or not it was suitable for 
Mr W to transfer his OPS benefits to an FPP.
Was that advice suitable?
When giving advice MHFC was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. 
These include the overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due 
skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1 required MHFC to gather the necessary 
information about Mr Ws knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type of 
investment, his financial situation and investment objectives. This was to enable it to make a 
recommendation which was suitable for Mr W.
COBS 9.2.2 required MHFC to gather enough information to ensure that the 
recommendation; met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst other things, to fulfil its duties MHFC had to know its client, act in his best 
interests and give suitable advice.
COBS 19.1.6G (as applicable at the time of advice), provided guidance on assessing the 
suitability of pension transfers, it set out that:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Upon transfer Mr W lost valuable guarantees attached to the OPS and exposed his pension 
to charges and investment risk.
The fact-find that was filled out confirmed that:
Mr W was employed as a regional sales manager.
He intended to retire at 65.
He had an outstanding mortgage of £80,000.
He had four pensions, these all appear to have been workplace pensions.
Limited advice was being provided in relation to the pension only (this was out of 
three options; full advice, limited advice or execution only).
A lot of the fact-find has been left blank. The attitude to risk questions have been completed.
A separate risk profiler was completed by the adviser on 15 February 2010  this concluded 
that Mr W was an acquisitive investor, this was defined as:This is the first of two risk profiles for Acquisitive Investors. This one is appropriate 
for you because the level of risk (and therefore potential reward) is slightly lower than 
for the other Acquisitive Investor profile. An Acquisitive Investor is willing to accept a 
much higher level of risk on their investment in return for higher returns in the long 
run. They are willing to accept a good amount of short-term fluctuation in the value of 
their investments as a result. They would feel comfortable if their investments were to 
fall in value more than one quarter in one year and may well see this as an ideal time 
to purchase investments because of their cheaper asset values.
I havent seen evidence of Mr Ws personal investment experience but as a result of his work 
Im satisfied that he would likely have a good understanding of investment risk. Whilst I think 
he did understand investment risk and his risk profile indicated he had a high-risk attitude to 
investment risk, Im not persuaded that this made the transfer suitable. It hasnt been 
demonstrated that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests and warranted him giving up the 
value added by guarantees attached to and the security provided by his OPS.
The purpose of Mr Ws OPS benefits was to provide him with an income in retirement, upon 
transfer he lost the valuable guarantees attached to his OPS. As Ive said, I am satisfied 
there wasnt sufficient justification for the transfer in this instance and I dont think it was in 
his best interests. I also think that upon transfer Mr W could have accessed suitable 
investments through a cheaper product such as a stakeholder plan but, given that Ive found 
that Mr W ought to have been advised to retain his OPS benefits, I dont think this is material 
in this instance.
I think Mr W would most likely have listened to suitable advice from his financial adviser.
In summary, Ive found that:
It is more likely than not that MHFC advised Mr W to transfer his OPS benefits to an 
FPP;
If Im wrong about this, I think it at least advised on the FPP and subsequent 
investment, in order to give suitable advice in respect of this it ought to have 
considered the source of funds [the transfer of his OPS benefits];
The transfer of Mr Ws OPS benefits wasnt suitable; and
Mr W would most likely have listened to suitable advice.
I understand that MHFC feels strongly that the findings reached are unfair and that the 
outcome of this complaint is of significance to it. But I remain of the view that, under the 
circumstances, its fair and reasonable for MHFC to compensate Mr W for any financial loss 
he may have suffered as a result of transferring out of his OPS. 
Ive also taken into account what MHFC said about the award for distress and 
inconvenience, but I remain of the view that the realisation that the transfer wasnt in his best 
interests and that hell likely be worse off in retirement as a result of this likely did cause Mr 
W distress, and I think that MHFC should compensate him for this.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. MHFC must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
MHFC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
MHFC receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MHFC 
to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
In addition to the financial loss suffered, I think what has happened has caused Mr W 
distress. To compensate him for this MHFC should pay to Mr W £300.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that this is a complaint we can consider and that it should be upheld. I 
direct First With Mortgages Limited to compensate Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman