DRN-2396018
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with her home insurer Aviva Insurance Limited over the way it has handled 
her claim made after a fire occurred next door.
What happened
There was a fire at Mrs Bs neighbours house in the early hours of the morning on 
26 March 2020. Some external parts of Mrs Bs home were affected, and the fire brigade 
commented that the blaze spreading to Mrs Bs home had only been narrowly avoided. But 
Mrs Bs home externally and internally was damaged by smoke and soot. 
The fire brigade said the house was unfit to live in. Mrs B moved in with her daughter. She 
was content to stay there for a while but when her other daughter and son, who usually lived 
with her at her home, moved in, things became untenable. Aviva arranged alternative 
accommodation and said it would look at paying a disturbance allowance for the period 
Mrs B had lived with her daughter. 
Meanwhile Aviva had arranged for a personal claims consultant to meet Mrs B on 30 March. 
Restoration contractors were appointed and they began clearing Mrs Bs home so it and her 
belongings could be cleaned. What was believed to be some final fogging work took place 
on 7 May and arrangements for redecorating Mrs Bs home were then made. These were 
expected to be complete by the end of July. 
Whilst Mrs Bs home had been cleaned and fogged, work on the fire damaged property next 
door had not commenced. In Mrs Bs home, walls were to be re-painted but wall paper had 
not been removed, and some carpets and fitted wardrobes remained in-situ. Mrs B reported 
in July, August and September that her home still smelled of smoke. Arrangements for 
further work were made, such as replacing the carpets, and further de-odourising took place. 
But, following some final work in mid-October 2020, Mrs B said the smell of smoke was still 
there. Aviva felt it had done all it could; that the likely remaining smell was coming from next 
door and it wasnt its fault that work there had not progressed. When Mrs B complained to us 
she told us that whilst Aviva was continuing the provision of her alternative accommodation, 
this was being done on an ad-hoc basis, and at short notice too, which was causing her a lot 
of stress. 
Our investigator felt that Aviva should do more  that it should appoint an independent 
specialist to investigate and advise on what to do regarding the remaining odour. He felt 
Aviva should organise accommodation for a fixed term in the meantime to allow for the 
inspection and any recommended re-work to be undertaken. He said Aviva should pay £300 
compensation. 
Aviva said it accepted the accommodation should have been handled better and it didnt 
object to the compensation the investigator had suggested. But it said its enquiries regarding 
the smoke were on-going so it seemed a little premature to appoint an independent 
specialist at this stage. Mrs B felt the compensation was too low for what shed been 
through. And she asked about a disturbance allowance being paid to her. Aviva was asked 
about an allowance but it didnt feel this was necessary given the accommodation Mrs B is 
currently staying in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont intend to move away from the findings issued by our investigator. 
Under the circumstances I think theyre fair and reasonable, Ill explain.
Claims involving fires are, by their nature, traumatic. Its also the case that sometimes 
reinstatement work can become more involved and take longer than that first expected. But 
careful management of a claim like this can limit the impact on the policyholder and avoid 
further distress and inconvenience being caused. I think Aviva could have done better here 
to assist Mrs B at this difficult time.
Turning first to the issue of the smell of smoke in Mrs Bs home, Im not persuaded it is 
reasonable to leave this matter without some direction for Aviva to follow at this stage. Aviva 
has had months to try and remediate the home and seems to think it has done all it can. But 
all the while it accepts that the state of the house next door will be impacting Mrs Bs home. 
Which means that, contrary to what Avivas case file suggests it believes, it has not 
discharged its duty to complete long-lasting effective repairs. I also see that Aviva has said it 
cant get involved in the progression of the repairs next door  that Mrs B may have to call 
environmental health to progress things. But that is not fair and ignores the fact that, taking 
Aviva at its word that the odour is coming from next door, until the neighbouring property is 
reinstated, it may well be unable to fully reinstate Mrs Bs home. 
Its also unclear to me if this is just a case of odour transfer from next door. Avivas file 
shows that this has been believed to be a factor since July 2020. But since then various 
re-works have also been accepted as being necessary, such as removing carpets and fitted 
wardrobes. So it seems that not all of the initial clearing and cleaning part of Avivas work, 
said to have been completed in May 2020, was entirely successful. I can understand why 
Mrs B has concerns that further work to the permeable surfaces of her home might still be 
required, including removal of underlay from underneath hard-surface flooring. I think its 
reasonable to say Aviva should appoint an independent expert at this time; I cant see any 
other reasonable way of this issue resolving and, therefore, allowing Mrs B to return home. 
Moving on to the issue of alternative accommodation, whilst I see that Mrs B had been 
initially happy to stay with family, it was only when she told Aviva that this had become 
untenable that other options were considered. Aviva could have managed this better by 
checking with Mrs B, as time moved on, whether the ad-hoc arrangements put in place in the 
immediate aftermath of the fire were still suitable. 
I know that when other arrangements were made for Mrs B, Aviva didnt arrange a 
like-for-like property for her to stay in. A like-for-like property would normally be arranged 
where there are long-term repairs expected. At the point this arrangement was made the 
repairs were reasonably expected to conclude within a couple of months. I think the 
arrangements made were reasonable. As work drew to what Aviva believed was a close, the accommodation arrangements 
became more fraught and less well managed. I accept this caused Mrs B some upset. I note 
that Aviva has agreed this could have been managed better. Moving forwards Id expect a 
better arrangement to be put in place.
Given the apartment Mrs B is staying in gives her facilities similar to what she has at home, 
I wouldnt expect Aviva to pay her a disturbance allowance as well. Its not clear to me if an 
allowance was paid by Aviva as promised for the period Mrs B stayed with her daughter. 
Mrs B should contact it directly if she still has any concerns about this. 
I know Mrs B thinks that the £300 compensation suggested by our investigator is insufficient. 
Whilst I know Mrs B has explained her and her daughters health has been affected, Ive 
seen no evidence of that. I also bear in mind, as I noted above, that an incident like this is 
traumatic. It will usually involve a stay away from home and sometimes, as was the case 
here, a separation from pets and loved ones. It will also usually be necessary for the 
policyholder to have some input during the course of repairs. That said, and having 
considered everything Mrs B has described going through, I do think Aviva could have 
handled things better. I think it could have communicated with Mrs B more often, particularly 
about key repairs, and Ive noted above issues with the repairs and the accommodation 
arrangements. All of which Ive accepted caused Mrs B distress and inconvenience. I am 
satisfied that £300 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Appoint an independent fire/smoke specialist to inspect Mrs Bs home and report on any 
remaining odour from the fire and what is required to remedy that.
Agree a way forwards with Mrs B following the findings of the report.
Arrange a suitable period of alternative accommodation to allow for the inspection to take 
place and recommended work to be completed, managing matters carefully so as to 
avoid upset as previously experienced by expiry dates being reached/approached 
without further arrangements being in place. 
Pay Mrs B £300 compensation.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out my directions set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman