DRN-2899536
The complaint
Miss J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when 
it increased her credit limit. 
What happened
In 2016 Miss J applied for a Barclaycard and said she was earning £11,700 a year. 
Barclaycard carried out a credit search and applied its lending criteria to the application. The 
Barclaycard was approved with a credit limit of £3,000. 
In January 2017 Barclaycard increased Miss Js credit limit to £7,000. In November 2017 the 
credit limit was increased to £10,000 and in July 2018 it was increased to £13,000. 
In late 2018 there were arrears on Miss Js credit card and it was ultimately closed and the 
debt sold to a third party. 
Earlier this year, Miss J complained that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly. Barclaycard 
didnt uphold Miss Js complaint and said it had completed thorough affordability 
assessments before increasing her credit limit. Miss J went on to refer her complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Barclaycard had dealt with Miss 
Js complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Miss J asked to appeal and said Barclaycard has been mentioned in the press as being an 
irresponsible lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business decides to increase a credit limit, it needs to check whether the 
repayments are sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a business has to 
complete. But the regulations say businesses should take factors like the type of credit, 
borrowing limits, term, frequency of payments and costs of borrowing into account when 
deciding what checks to complete. 
In this case, Barclaycard says it used information it knew about Miss J from her application 
and account history before deciding whether to increase her credit limit. Barclaycard says it 
also took information from Miss Js credit file into account, including financial modelling of 
her income and outgoings, before it decided to proceed. I need to decide whether 
Barclaycard carried out proportionate checks and, based on what it knew at the time, if it lent 
irresponsibly when it approved the credit limit increases. 
Miss J told Barclaycard she earned £11,700 when she applied for her credit card. In January 
2017 Barclaycard increased the credit limit from £3,000 to £7,000. Ive seen the information 
Barclaycard obtained from Miss Js credit file. I note Miss J appears to have taken out a loan 
and consolidated unsecured debts in the months before Barclaycard increased the credit 
limit. The loan appears to have been partially used by Miss J to repay her outstanding 
Barclaycard balance. 
Barclaycard says it didnt find any evidence of arrears or other adverse credit. Barclaycard 
used financial modelling to consider Miss Js income and outgoings as well as how shed 
used her card. And Barclaycard has confirmed the credit limit increase was in line with its 
lending criteria at the time. Taking all the available information Ive seen into account, Im 
satisfied Barclaycard carried out proportionate checks and havent been persuaded it lent 
irresponsibly. 
In November 2017 Barclaycard increased the credit limit to £10,000. At this stage, Miss Js 
credit file showed she was repaying her loan without issue and had a reasonably low 
balance (around £750) on other credit cards. No new late payments or adverse credit was 
reported and the level of outstanding debts wasnt going up. Miss Js Barclaycard had been 
managed in line with the account terms. The information available didnt show Miss J was 
struggling to manage her credit card. Barclaycard says it applied its lending criteria and 
correctly approved the credit limit increase. Based on the information available to 
Barclaycard, Im satisfied it lent responsibly when it increased Miss Js credit limit to 
£10,000. 
The final credit limit increase took place in September 2018 and took the credit limit to 
£13,000. Barclaycard looked at Miss Js credit file and didnt find any new arrears or adverse 
information. Miss Js overall level of debt didnt appear to have gone up since the previous 
credit limit increase and there were no obvious signs she was in financial difficulties. 
Barclaycard says Miss Js account had no missed payments and had been managed in line 
with the credit agreement. Barclaycard says the credit limit was approved in line with its 
lending criteria. Im sorry to disappoint Miss J but I think Barclaycard did carry out 
proportionate checks and that its decision to increase the credit limit was reasonable. 
Ive seen Miss Js bank statements from 2018 and can see she was struggling. But that 
information wasnt passed on to Barclaycard and, as Ive said above, Im satisfied that based 
on what it knew about Miss J, it didnt lend irresponsibly.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss J but as I havent found Barclaycard lent irresponsibly and Im 
satisfied it dealt with her complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 
13 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman