DRN-3861250
The complaint
Miss B complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) decision to 
decline her claim for legal costs under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B was involved in a car accident which she reported to Admiral. Charges were then 
brought against Miss B for a motoring offence and, following her own independent legal 
advice, Miss B pleaded guilty to the charge. Miss B made a claim to Admiral for her legal 
costs, but this was declined. 
Miss B complained about Admirals decision and they responded and explained they would 
only provide cover in circumstances where they felt there were reasonable grounds to 
defend a case. But, as Miss B had pleaded guilty, it meant there was no realistic prospect of 
defending the case. Admiral also explained they didnt at any point agree to cover the legal 
costs. They also explained Miss B is required to provide them with all the information they 
need about the case, but Miss B didnt provide a formal statement regarding the incident. So, 
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint.   
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He thought Admiral hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Miss B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Miss Bs car insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
says shes covered for everything shes legally responsible to pay due to an accident in her 
car. Under a heading Cover for legal costs it says, If we agree in writing, we will pay the 
following legal costs and expenses following a claim. The list then includes solicitors fees 
and reasonable legal costs for defending a criminal charge. Admiral say theyve declined 
Miss Bs claim because theyve never agreed to cover the costs and the circumstances dont 
fall within the type of case where they would provide cover. So, Ive looked to see whether 
their decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The first point Ill make is that the wording of the terms and conditions doesnt suggest cover 
for legal costs, in these circumstances, is an automatic right. The policy says Admiral must 
agree to this in writing. And theres no dispute here that Admiral didnt provide any written 
agreement to cover the legal costs. Admiral say cover for such an event is entirely at their 
discretion and, for them to be able to provide cover for legal costs, they have to look at the 
prospects of success for a defence. They say, for them to consider funding any defence, 
they have to be satisfied a customer has a strong possibility of having the charges against 
them dropped or found not guilty by the court. In this case, Admiral say, from what they 
understand of the accident circumstances, they dont believe a defence wouldve been 
successful. Im further persuaded this is the case as the police felt there was a case to 
pursue here and the relevant authorities decided the evidence justified charges being 
brought. Also, Miss B did, following her own independent legal advice, plead guilty. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to take the view the circumstances wouldnt meet 
their criteria for cover. 
Miss B instructed her own solicitors in relation to the proceedings. But, given that the policy 
does set out circumstances where Admiral may provide cover, Ive looked to see whether 
Admiral acted unfairly in not providing their written agreement. Contact notes provided by 
Admiral show they initially made enquiries with the police to determine whether Miss B would 
be charged with a motoring offence. The police explained they were considering a charge 
relating to careless driving but couldnt at that stage rule out dangerous driving. I can see 
Admiral requested the police report and explained to Miss B they were waiting for this and 
would need to see what charges were brought. I can see Admiral then continue to chase the 
police regularly for updates on what charges will be brought and also for the police report. I 
can see Miss Bs solicitors then write to Admiral to say Miss B has entered a guilty plea to a 
charge of careless driving. And, at this point Admiral still hadnt received the police report.  
I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to wait for the police report before deciding on 
the next steps. I say this because the terms and conditions say cover for solicitors fees and 
legal costs for defending a criminal charge will be dependent on Admiral providing indemnity 
on the claim generally. I can see Admiral needed the police report to decide whether any of 
the general conditions or exceptions applied here. So, they wont have been in a position to 
determine indemnity  and cover for legal costs  until the police report had been received.     
I understand this left Miss B in a difficult position where Admiral hadnt provided written 
agreement to cover her legal costs and her requiring legal representation in the case. I can 
see however that Admiral did instruct an investigation agent to obtain a statement from   
Miss B but the notes say Miss B, on the advice of her solicitors, refused to provide this. 
Admiral say Miss B has therefore not fully cooperated with their investigation. I can see the 
terms and conditions set out general conditions and one of these say a customer must give 
us all the information about the claim that we need and failure to comply with this could 
result in a claim being refused. Admiral say Miss Bs refusal amounts to a breach of the 
terms and conditions. They also say this left them in a position where they had to base their 
decision on the guilty plea given by Miss B. So, I cant say Admiral have acted unreasonably.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think Admiral have acted unfairly here. I understand this 
leaves Miss B having to fund her own legal costs, but the information shows Admiral have 
acted in line with the terms and conditions when reaching their decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman