DRN-3679625
The complaint
Mr D told us he had to sell his house not long after purchase. He complains about how much 
he paid Accord Mortgages Limited to redeem his mortgage. He thought he had paid more off 
the loan, and he didnt think he should have to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr D remortgaged to Accord. He said he had that mortgage for 11 months, but it wasnt 
made clear to him he would have to repay significantly more than he borrowed. Mr D said he 
borrowed £148,500. He paid at least £630 per month for 11 months, and got no help during 
Covid. He said his repayments shouldve brought the loan down to around £141,570 but to 
settle the loan in April 2022 cost him £149,737.82, more than hed originally borrowed. 
Mr D said Accord told him that included an ERC of just over £3,650 as well as a separate 
£90 fee for redemption. But Accord had told him in February 2022 the ERC would be no 
more than £2,500. Mr D also said he wrote to Accord and told it he was struggling financially, 
which was why he needed to sell the property. Mr D said he didnt think it was fair for Accord 
to charge an ERC on this account under the circumstances, especially one of almost £4,000. 
Mr D said Accord had been really unsympathetic, it had done nothing to help or support him 
and had given misleading information. Mr D wanted the ERC refunded, or at least some of 
the money he had repaid.
Accord said it accepted its agent gave Mr D some wrong information when he spoke to it on 
17 February 2022. Its agent had worked out the ERC amount wrongly. But importantly, 
Accord said Mr D was given the correct figure on the statement it issued on 1 February. And 
the agent didnt make any mistake on the call of 17 February about the overall cost of 
redemption. The agent just worked out wrongly how much of that was made up of the ERC. 
Mr D had asked for this to be confirmed, so he was sent a secure message on 23 February, 
which again got the ERC right. Finally, Accord said Mr D had already told it he was planning 
to sell the property, before this call. 
So Accord thought this mistake had a limited impact on Mr D. It offered to pay Mr D £70 for 
his complaint, but it wouldnt do more than this. It wouldnt refund the ERC he paid.
Accord wrote to Mr D again, when he complained about the amounts hed paid to his 
mortgage over the 11 months he held it, and what he was asked to pay at the end. It said it 
had already explained it was entitled to charge an ERC. And for the rest, it thought part of 
the issue was that Mr Ds figures werent right. 
Accord also said that some of the problem was also that Mr D expected any payment he 
made to Accord would be used to reduce the amount he owed. Accord said that each month, 
some of Mr Ds payment was used to cover the interest then the rest was taken off the 
balance owing. So in January 2022, when he paid £630, more than half of that, £385.20, 
was used to pay the interest on his mortgage, only what was left was used to reduce his 
overall borrowing. 
Accord said it didnt feel it had been greedy, or failed to support Mr D. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he sympathised with 
Mr Ds situation, but he didnt think Accord had to waive the ERC it had charged, or that it 
had charged Mr D too much. 
Our investigator said Accord had properly notified Mr D of the ERC on his mortgage. And he 
said that ERCs are intended to reflect the cost to the business of borrowers redeeming a 
particular mortgage early. So our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Accord to 
refund all or part of the ERC when he didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think Accord was asked to put a temporary arrangement in place, to 
take account of Mr Ds financial difficulties. Mr D did ask about letting the property in 
September 2021, but he only said he wanted to rent his property out for an extra income. 
Accord asked for some additional information to consider the request  which our 
investigator said was fair, because the risks of lending on a rented property are different to 
the risks of lending on someones home. But it didnt look as if Mr D replied to this, so the 
request wasnt taken any further. 
When Mr D missed payments, he told Accord it was nothing serious and hed just forgotten 
to pay. So Accord didnt offer any support. If hed said he was struggling, it might have been 
able to offer some temporary help. But that help doesnt usually include waiving the ERCs, 
because there is a cost to the lender if someone pays back a mortgage early.
Our investigator said Accord did make a mistake when its agent gave the incorrect ERC 
figure on the phone. But our investigator didnt think that influenced Mr Ds decision to sell 
the property.
Our investigator sought to explain that some of the money Mr D had paid towards his 
mortgage each month had been used to pay the interest on the loan. Mr Ds mortgage offer 
said that overall, Mr D would pay back £1.87 for every £1 borrowed. And Mr D took out this 
mortgage through a broker, so it wasnt Accords responsibility to explain this to him.
Our investigator said hed taken account of everything that happened here, but he still 
thought a payment of £70 was reasonable to compensate Mr D for the inconvenience 
Accord caused him.
Mr D didnt agree. He wanted the maths of his mortgage to be accurately calculated. He said 
that if the figures were right, then customers were being ripped off. He wanted to know 
where all his money had gone. 
Our investigator said some of the figures Mr D had used werent right. Mr D borrowed 
£148,750, not £148,500. Our investigator said its difficult to work out how much interest 
Mr D should have been charged, but hed done some calculations, and he didnt think Mr D 
had been overcharged interest. And he said that looking at what Mr D borrowed, deducting 
what he paid back, then adding back on the interest he was (properly) charged, as well as 
the ERC that he was properly notified of, our investigator came to the same total as Accord. 
Our investigator said that if Mr D had been experiencing financial difficulties, then wed 
expect lenders to look at ways of assisting him. But our investigator said up until Mr D asked 
about paying back the mortgage, he hadnt told Accord about this. 
Mr D said that as soon as he realised he needed to sell, he contacted Accord, but it still 
charged him the full ERC. It had told him the ERC was only £2,500, so if he was expecting to pay anything at all, it was that. And Mr D said he told Accord he was in financial difficulties in 
January, but didnt sell until April. In the months between, Accord did nothing to help.
Mr D wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr D said that he wasnt happy with how much he paid overall on his mortgage, and he 
wanted us to make sure the maths was right. Our service doesnt audit mortgages, so I 
cannot provide a definitive response on this for Mr D. But our investigator did look at the 
figures, and he couldnt see anything wrong with what Accord had done. Ive looked too, and 
I cant see any mistake here. 
Mr D said he wasnt expecting to pay back more than he had borrowed. But a mortgage is 
intended to be long-term lending. Mr D paid this mortgage off after less than 11 months. I 
understand the reasons why Mr D did that, and Im sorry to hear about the difficulties hes 
faced. 
However, when Accord offered him fixed rate lending for two years, it also told him about a 
charge for repaying the whole mortgage before the end of this period  the ERC. As our 
investigator said, thats not pure profit for Accord. Its not just being greedy. The ERC is 
there to cover the loss Accord makes if Mr D pays back the lending during these first two 
years, when the interest rate is fixed. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Accord to charge this. I dont think it was just ripping Mr D off. 
Mr D said he wasnt expecting to pay any more than £2,500 in an ERC, as thats what 
Accord told him. But Accord set out that it corrected this mistake quickly. And importantly, on 
the same call, it gave Mr D correct information on the overall cost of his redemption. So the 
mistake was in how much of his redemption cost was made up of ERC. It wasnt in how 
much he had to pay in total, to clear his mortgage. So I think Mr D was always expecting to 
pay what he did eventually pay, in total. And because of that, I think that Accords offer of 
£70 is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Mr Ds complaint.
I can see that Mr D did ask about letting out his house. I dont know if Mr D could have 
avoided selling his home if Accord had approved that. But Mr D didnt tell Accord at that time 
that he was in financial difficulties, he said he just wanted to keep the house as an extra 
income. And it doesnt look like he did ever reply to the additional questions that the letting 
team asked him at the start of October, and then again in November. I think thats why this 
proposal didnt go ahead.
Mr D also said he told Accord in January that he was going to sell his house because he was 
struggling financially, and it didnt do anything to help him then. But I think that Mr D had 
already decided to what was, unfortunately, the most sensible thing in the circumstances. He 
had decided to sell his house, and he did so quickly. 
There are a number of things our service will sometimes ask lenders to do, when someones 
struggling to make their payments to a mortgage. Ive considered if any of the help we might 
expect Accord to offer might have assisted Mr D. And unfortunately, I dont think it would have made a difference here. Any short term help with his payments would only have been 
likely to increase the amount he had to repay when his house was sold only a few months 
later  so it wouldnt make a difference in the longer term. And I dont think we can 
reasonably ask Accord to waive its ERC in this case, for the reasons Ive set out above. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think Accord has to do more than it has offered, 
which is pay Mr D £70. I cant see that Accord has paid this money to Mr D, so Ill award that 
here, but Ill also allow Accord to count towards that award, any money it has already paid, in 
case Mr D has accepted its offer and received this money.
My final decision
My decision is that Accord Mortgages Limited must pay Mr D £70. Accord Mortgages Limited 
can count towards that award any money it has already paid Mr D for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman