DRN-1222048
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the credit limit MBNA Limited (MBNA) offered him on a new credit 
card.
What happened
Mr R wanted a new credit card so he could do a balance transfer. He did a soft search with 
MBNA, which indicated he would be eligible for a credit limit of £5,000. He applied for the 
card and was successful. But MBNA only offered him a credit limit of £3,500. When he 
asked MBNA to increase the limit to £5,000, they couldnt do this. Because the credit limit 
wasnt enough to do the balance transfer, Mr R closed the account.
Mr R has complained that MBNA didnt offer him the £5,000 credit limit they indicated he 
would be eligible for in the soft search. Because of this he wants them to remove from his 
credit file the credit search they did when he applied for the credit card, as he believes this 
will affect his chances of getting another credit card elsewhere at a lower rate.
Our investigator found MBNA had provided a reasonable service. He says MBNA have 
provided evidence to show Mr R only applied for a credit limit of £3,500, so they didnt do 
anything wrong by just offering this limit. He also said that MBNA have an obligation to report 
accurate and complete information to the credit reference agencies. Because Mr R applied 
for a credit card, and this was offered to him, he felt MBNA were right in reporting this. 
He also hadnt seen anything to show that Mr R had been affected by the credit search 
showing on his credit file, or that it was more difficult for him to obtain another credit card 
because of it. So the investigator didnt think MBNA should do anything more.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He says he didnt apply for a £3,500 credit limit and 
was expecting the £5,000 limit indicated by the soft search. Because of this he thinks 
MBNAs soft search process is not fit for purpose and is misleading. Mr R has also said 
that MBNA didnt tell him what his credit limit would be in any of the pre-contract credit 
information emails, and he only found this out when he received the card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNAs soft search process  called Clever Check  is a way for customers to find out if 
theyd be eligible for a credit card before they formally apply. Because of the way information 
from the credit reference agencies is accessed, a soft search isnt visible to anyone else 
looking at a credit file.Ive looked at MBNAs website, and it explains in detail how the Clever Check process 
works. Under the heading Your estimated credit limit up-front it also explains 95% of new 
customers get the credit limit shown once their application has been approved - MBNA dont 
guarantee that the Clever Check credit limit will be offered.
Ive also seen that, when applying for a credit card after the Clever Check, Mr R asked for a 
credit limit of £3,500. I know Mr R doesnt think he did this, but Ive seen that the investigator 
has sent him a copy of the evidence that shows this was the case. So I agree that MBNA 
didnt do anything wrong by only offering the £3,500 credit limit Mr R asked for.
I also think MBNA acted reasonably by not increasing the credit limit to £5,000 when Mr R 
asked them to do this. The £5,000 credit limit indicated by the Clever Check wasnt 
guaranteed, and MBNA are entitled to apply their usual criteria when considering a credit 
limit increase. I havent seen anything to show me that MBNA applied their criteria unfairly.
Mr R has said that MBNA didnt mention his credit limit in the pre-contract credit information 
emails he received. Because MBNA were offering Mr R the £3,500 credit limit he asked for, I 
wouldnt necessarily expect them to refer to this, only doing so if the requested credit limit 
couldnt be offered. So I dont think they did anything wrong.
MBNA did a full credit search when Mr R applied for the credit card, and their credit card 
information made it clear they were going to do this. So its right that they report this search, 
and that the credit card facility was offered, to the credit reference agencies. I appreciate Mr 
R was unhappy with the credit limit on the card, and he closed the account down, but I dont 
think this means MBNA should ask the credit reference agencies to remove all details of the 
search and card from their records. Data reported on credit files should be accurate and up 
to date so Mr Rs credit file should show that he applied for a credit card, was offered this, 
and then closed the account down without using the card.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman