DRN-4240212
Complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her account. She also 
says that Barclays failed to return the funds that were in the account to her.
Background
In August 2022, Miss Fs account with Barclays was closed. Miss F was dissatisfied at this 
and complained. Barclays didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. As Miss F remained dissatisfied,   
Miss F referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Fs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards    
Miss F and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss F, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Miss F is unhappy 
that Barclays closed her account. However, each financial institution has its own criteria and 
risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a customer 
with an account is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. 
Furthermore, while Miss F says her account was closed without notice, Im satisfied that 
Barclays sent her a letter in June 2022 notifying her that her account was going to be closed. 
I appreciate that Miss F says that she didnt receive this letter. But as Im satisfied that they 
were sent to Miss Fs correspondence address at the time, I think that Barclays took 
reasonable steps to notify Miss F that it would be closing her account.   
I realise that Barclays actions will have been very disappointing to Miss F and I can 
appreciate why the closure of her accounts will have caused her inconvenience. But despite 
this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Barclays it should have continued offering 
Miss F an account in circumstances where it legitimately decided it no longer wished to 
provide one.
Finally, having looked at copies of Miss Fs account ledgers Ive seen that the account was 
closed with a zero balance. So I dont think that there were any funds to be returned at the 
time the account was closed. If Miss F disputes that her account had a zero balance at this 
time this is a matter that she will have to take up with Barclays in the first instance. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss F and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss F. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Barclays was entitled to close her account in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman