DRN-4393369
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their home emergency 
insurance claim.
Mr and Mrs L are joint policyholders. As most of the communication relating to the complaint 
has been from Mr L, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Aviva has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of the agents. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L held a policy with Aviva which provided central heating breakdown cover for a 
property they let to tenants. In March 2023, their tenant reported an issue with the hot water. 
Aviva arranged for an engineer to attend the property. The engineer concluded that the 
boiler needed a new connection cable but found that the part was obsolete.
Aviva deemed the boiler beyond economical repair (BER). It cancelled the policy and paid 
Mr L £200. Mr L raised a complaint with Aviva. He disputed that the boiler was BER and was 
unhappy that Aviva hadnt repaired it. Aviva said it had acted in line with the policys terms 
and the correct process had been followed.
Mr L remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. He provided a gas 
safety inspection report which was carried out the day after Aviva attended, as well as an 
invoice from an engineer who had fixed his boiler. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She recommended Aviva 
reimburse Mr L for the cost of repairs and pay him £100 for trouble and upset.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said its engineer had diagnosed rainwater 
ingress which had caused some damage to the boiler and there was also poor circulation. It 
said the private engineer had only cleaned the heat exchanger and hadnt commented on 
the rainwater damage. Aviva would have replaced the part. It said that although the private 
repair might have got the boiler working, it could just be a temporary repair. Under Avivas 
policy repairs are guaranteed for 12 months. It also commented that the engineer who 
repaired the boiler didnt appear on the gas safe register.
Our investigator thought Aviva should pay the compensation shed previously recommended 
if Mr L could provide evidence from a gas safe engineer confirming that the repairs carried 
out by the previous engineer were safe. 
Mr L provided a gas safety record from a gas safe engineer. Our investigator shared this 
with Aviva and recommended it pay the redress shed previously suggested.
Aviva didnt agree. It said the safety of the appliance couldnt be confirmed from the records 
supplied. Operating pressure or heat input needed to be tested but this wasnt recorded on 
the record. It appeared that the test point was damaged on the gas valve and would require 
replacing to conduct the tests. 
Aviva said there were no comments about the faults identified by its engineers in March 
2023. The engineer stated there was water damage inside the boiler and no one has ever 
commented to dispute their findings. The new report didnt comment on the work completed 
by the private engineer who wasnt gas safe registered. The works completed were illegal for 
this reason.  
Mr D said he thought the redress our investigator paid him should be in addition to the £200 
Aviva had already paid him. He also said he thought the cost of recertification for the boiler 
should be included as this was only carried out because Aviva failed in their contractual 
obligation to carry out the repairs competently. 
 
As both parties disagree with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy say cover is provided for:
A breakdown of the boiler and external components required to make it work such as pump, 
motorised valve, thermostat, timer, temperature control and external chimney (flue)
Aviva says that the engineer who attended in March 2023 discovered rainwater had 
damaged multiple parts of the boiler. Upon reviewing the parts required, the engineer 
discovered the connection cable was obsolete and no longer available. So, the boiler was 
deemed BER.
Its referred to the following wording in the policys terms and conditions:
Obsolete Parts and Beyond Economical Repair boilers  If when attempting to repair your 
boiler the parts required are found to be obsolete or your boiler is beyond economical repair, 
the following terms shall apply
After 6 months  After six months of cover (and each year thereafter that you renew your 
policy), if your boiler is less than 7 years old we will source, replace and install a new boiler. 
If it is 7 years old or older we will make a contribution of £200 towards the cost of a new 
boiler.
Aviva says it refunded Mr L £200 in line with the above and cancelled the policy as a similar 
policy wasnt available. 
In its response to Mr Ls complaint, Aviva said the repairs werent carried out and his policy 
was cancelled because the connection cable was obsolete.
However, Mr L has provided an invoice from another engineer which suggests the boiler was 
fixed without the connection cable being replaced. The repair was carried out for £360.Aviva has raised concerns about the quality of the repairs completed by Mr Ls engineer. It 
says multiple parts needed replacing, including the connection cable. It says Mr Ls engineer 
only cleaned the heat exchanger, whilst its own engineers would have replaced it. Its 
commented that the repairs might only be temporary. It says Avivas repairs are guaranteed 
for 12 months. A private engineer might merely do the minimum required to get the boiler 
working again.
Aviva has shared the note from the engineer it sent to Mr Ls property in March 2023. This 
refers to rainwater damage leaking on boiler and multiple parts being required. However, 
the note isnt particularly detailed. Its unclear precisely what the engineer diagnosed to be 
causing the issue with the hot water the engineer was called out to fix.
Aviva says it doesnt think its fair to accept the diagnosis of a non-registered gas safe 
engineer against that of a fully qualified engineer that works for the boiler manufacturer.
I acknowledge that the engineer who fixed the boiler doesnt appear on the gas safe register. 
However, Mr L has provided a photograph of the engineers gas safe register card which has 
an expiry date of July 2023. Aviva told us it checked the gas safe register in June 2023, and 
it couldnt locate Mr Ls engineer. So, it seems that the engineer was removed from the 
register at some point before his card expired. However, its unclear why he was removed or 
whether this was before or after he completed the repairs in April 2023. 
Mr L also provided a certificate from a gas safe registered engineer who inspected the boiler 
the day after Avivas engineer visited. This says: Hot water not working properly, probably 
due to blocked plate to plate heat exchanger.
I appreciate Aviva thinks the diagnosis from its own engineer is more accurate. But its 
engineers diagnosis isnt very clear in the notes. Moreover, Mr L says the boiler has 
continued to work since the repair. Hes provided a gas safe certificate from a gas safe 
registered engineer to show this. The certificate is dated July 2023, which is around two and 
a half months after the repairs were completed. 
Aviva has raised concerns about the gas safe certificate issued in July 2023. It says the 
operating pressure or heat input should have been tested, but this isnt recorded on the 
certificate. 
Aviva has also commented that nothing has been said to dispute its engineers findings of 
water damage and the new report doesnt comment about the work completed by the private 
engineer who wasnt gas safe registered. 
I appreciate Aviva doesnt believe the gas safety certificate shows the appliance is safe. 
However, the boiler has been declared safe and working by a qualified gas safe engineer. 
The information available suggests that the issue Avivas engineer was called out for was 
rectified without the connection valve being replaced. So, I dont think it was fair for Aviva to 
deem the boiler BER because this part wasnt available.
Avivas call notes arent very detailed, but it looks like it advised Mr L to provide a copy of his 
invoice if he wanted to source his own engineer to fix the issue. It suggests Aviva was willing 
to consider reimbursing these costs. 
Both parties have strong opinions about the outcome of this case. But Ive needed to base 
my decision on the information Ive been provided with. The notes from Avivas engineer 
who attended Mr Ls property in March 2023 are very brief and it isnt clear from these what 
was causing the issue they came to fix. Aviva told Mr L his boiler was BER because a 
particular part was obsolete. There may have been other reasons for Aviva deeming the boiler BER, but these dont appear to have been clearly communicated to Mr L. And the 
boiler appears to have been fixed without the part Aviva said was obsolete. So, under the 
circumstances, I think it would be fair for Aviva to reimburse Mr L for the cost of these 
repairs. 
Mr L has provided an invoice which shows the cost of the repairs was £360. As Aviva has 
already paid Mr L £200 in respect of the claim, I think it would be fair for it to pay him £160 
for the repairs.
Mr L thinks that Aviva should pay the cost of recertifying the boiler in July 2023. As a 
landlord, Mr L is responsible for his property and has a duty to ensure its safe for his 
tenants. I think it was necessary for the boiler to be checked, once it came to light that the 
engineer who carried out the repairs was no longer gas safe registered. However, I dont 
think it would be fair to tell Aviva to cover the cost of this as the engineer who carried out the 
repairs was instructed by Mr L.
I think Mr L has been caused some unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of 
Avivas handling of his claim. I dont think its communicated with him as clearly as it should 
have done, and Mr L was also inconvenienced by having to arrange for repairs to be carried 
out. I appreciate Mr L thinks the compensation should be higher, but I think £100 is a 
reasonable amount to recognise the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. 
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mr L £160 for repairs to the boiler and £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr L £260.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman