DRN-3830490
The complaint
Mr G complains Santander UK plc (Santander) failed to pay him a switcher incentive 
following the transfer of his bank account. 
What happened
Mr G says in mid-September 2021 he made an application to switch his bank account to 
Santander from another provider. Mr G says his bank account was opened by Santander 
and direct debits were transferred from his other provider and he received a letter from 
Santander confirming the switch had taken place. Mr G says at a later date he questioned 
why he hadnt been paid the £130 incentive he was offered to switch his bank account and 
was told the switch had been cancelled. 
Mr G says this doesnt make sense as the direct debits had been transferred from his other 
bank account and hed been told his new account with Santander had been opened and it 
never told him the switch hadnt taken place. Mr G wants Santander to pay him the switcher 
incentive payment.  
Santander says the letters Mr G received do not confirm the switch of bank accounts had 
taken place. Santander says the switch was cancelled shortly after the request was made as 
it learnt Mr G had initiated a switch to another bank, before theirs. Santander says because 
he had initiated a switch to another bank it meant he wasnt eligible for the switch incentive 
payment. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says given Mr G had earlier initiated a switch from his bank to another provider, 
he wasnt entitled to the switch incentive from Santander, and it had correctly cancelled the 
account switch request. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr G to be informed his bank account 
with another provider hadnt been switched and he wasnt entitled to the switcher incentive 
payment, even though hed been sent confirmation from Santander that it had. When looking 
at this complaint I will consider if Santander should have paid Mr G a switcher incentive 
payment. 
Mr Gs complaint centres around the fact hed arranged for his bank account with another 
provider to be transferred to Santander and hed met its switcher incentive payment 
requirements - but hadnt been paid. Mr G says he received confirmation in writing from 
Santander the switch had taken  place.
While I understand the points Mr G makes here Im not fully persuaded that the switch of his 
bank account from another provider did actually take place as he says. Although I can see 
Mr G did receive communications from Santander as he says, these only indicate the bank 
account had been opened but not that the switch had actually taken place. 
Santander have provided details to this service to show Mr G attempted to transfer his other 
bank account to two nominated banks including themselves, but because hed nominated 
the other named bank first, the switch to Santander was cancelled. Mr G also accepts he did 
try another bank switch, but this was cancelled by him, and this is in all likelihood, where the 
confusion lies. 
Although direct debits have been set up on Mr Gs bank account with Santander, it has 
confirmed it never requested these mandates from his other bank and it didnt set up these 
direct debits as part of an account switch. Its also fair to say for the switch to be successful, 
it would need Mr Gs previous bank account to be closed and any balance transferred to 
Santander - from the statements I have seen theres no evidence this took place and as 
such a switcher payment wouldnt be payable. 
While its possible Mr G didnt achieve the switch he had hoped for from either of the 
nominated banks, I cant say with any certainty Santander are at fault here. I say this 
because the information I have seen shows the other nominated bank was instructed before 
Santander and its not possible for two bank account switches to take place at the same 
time.   
While Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman