DRN-2548132
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in October 2003 during a telephone call, following a postal 
application for a credit card.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of Mrs Ms outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of her balance 
for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to let Mrs M know the policy was optional and it had to get her consent 
before it applied PPI to her account. Barclaycard says it would have done this, but Mrs M 
says she wasnt aware she had taken out PPI.
Its not possible to listen to a recording of the call as its no longer available, so I cant know 
precisely what would have been said. But weve seen a number of sales by Barclaycard 
around the time Mrs Ms policy was sold, and from what we know, the representative would 
have used a call script that would have prompted them to make it clear the policy was 
optional.
The PPI appeared on Mrs Ms bank statements as PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN and I 
think this was prominent. So, if Mrs M wasnt expecting to see these transactions, I would 
have expected her to have queried them with Barclaycard much sooner. So, I think its more 
likely than not that Mrs M was aware the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it at 
the time. The sale took place some 17 years ago, so its understandable if Mrs M doesnt 
remember this now. 
From what we know, Barclaycard would not have given Mrs M any advice during the call, so 
it didnt have to check the policy was right for her. But it did need to give Mrs M enough 
information about the policy, so she could decide whether to take it or not. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs M about the terms and cost of the policy 
wasnt as good as it should have been. But considering Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think 
better information would have put her off taking the policy. I say this because Mrs M was 
eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that 
might have made it harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing 
medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. 
Mrs M says she took the card to pay her bills and that she didnt have additional money to 
spare. But I havent seen anything to confirm Mrs M could not afford the policy when it was 
taken. And Mrs M could have cancelled the policy at any time if she could no longer afford it.
Mrs M says she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if she 
was off sick from work. And that she had a generous redundancy package if she lost her job. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to any employee benefits Mrs M received and 
she could have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. Mrs M didnt have any 
other way to make her repayments, so I think the policy could have been useful to her.
So, based on everything Ive said above, I dont think better information would have changed 
Mrs Ms decision to take the policy. As a result, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. That 
means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But 
Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell 
Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman