DRN-3159944
The complaint
Mr T complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKIs) settlement of his 
pet insurance claim. My references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr T had pet insurance for his dog, insured by UKI. The policy gave cover to a policy limit of 
£8,000 a condition, subject to the policy terms and conditions.
In 2016 Mr Ts dog had pelvis limb lameness. An MRI diagnosed lumbosacral stenosis (a 
degenerative spinal condition) for which his dog had ongoing regular medication and 
hydrotherapy.
In November 2019 Mr Ts dog had surgery for a large tumour around his spleen area. Mr T 
said he was advised by the vet that due to the size of the tumour and the struggle to remove 
it his dog had to be on his back for a prolonged period, which resulted in stress on his spine.
In January 2020 Mr Ts dog was lame and in pain and he was referred for a MRI on his 
spine. Following the investigations he was diagnosed as having a fracture of the L4 
vertebrae. His blood test showed he had the gene for degenerative myelopathy (DM), which 
is a progressive disease of the spinal cord. Mr T claimed for the investigations which cost 
about £3,000.
UKI said the vertebral fracture related to the dogs existing degenerative spinal condition so 
it paid about £650 but no more for that condition as the £8,000 limit for the condition had 
then been reached. UKI said:
Mr Ts dogs clinical history from 2016 said he had a large bony spur on his spine 
when he was diagnosed with his spinal condition. UKI thought the dogs ongoing 
spondylosis caused bony spurs to develop and led to a fracture on his L4 vertebrae
it had spoken to Mr Ts dogs specialist vet who told UKI the recent problem may 
have been exacerbated by the surgery for the unrelated tumour where the dog had to 
lay on his back but the vet had also said that wouldnt have been the main cause
DM could be covered as a new condition, up to the policy limit. It had paid for the 
blood test which identified the condition but any finding of that condition through the 
MRI or other scan and tests was an incidental finding and not related to the dogs 
lameness which led to the MRI and other tests.
Mr T complained to us. In summary he said UKIs decision was unfair because :
his dogs specialist vet had told UKI that his dogs lumbosacral stenosis and the 
vertebral fracture were separate issues. The vet told him the fracture was probably 
due to either the surgery or a fall
his vet told him the vertebral fracture didnt fully explain his dogs lameness as there 
didnt appear to be any spinal cord impingement in the scan but time would tell. His 
dogs mobility got much worse and the vet has told him DM was the cause
at the time of the 2020 investigations his dog hadnt been diagnosed with anything. 
His vet thought it might be potential bone cancer and DM and UKI should pay the 
cost of the diagnosis
UKI had opened a new claim for DM but didnt accept the MRI scan and other tests 
were part of that condition
he wants UKI to pay the full claim plus any interest he paid on his credit card due to 
paying the costs himself.
Our investigator said UKI acted fairly as it could conclude the dogs vertebral fracture and 
existing spinal condition were linked.
Mr T disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He told us that very sadly his dog 
had to be put to sleep because of paralysis which Mr T said was due to DM, not a fracture to 
his spine, so UKI should pay his claim for the all the investigations under the DM condition. 
Mr T provided further evidence, including updated vet evidence, which he said supported his 
claim. UKI commented on the new evidence and I referred to its response in my provisional 
findings.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably limited its payment of the claim and 
I think it did. Ill explain why.
Mr Ts policy provided cover to a limit of £8,000 a condition. It says once the vet fee limit for 
a condition has been reached there will no longer be any cover for the condition originally 
claimed for, any recurrence of that condition or anything related to that condition.
During UKIs claim assessment Mr Ts specialist vet wrote to UKI saying:
(Mr Ts dog) is affected by two conditions:
1. Lumbosacral stenosis (with secondary sciatic neuritis)
2. Fissure fracture of L4 vertebral body
Considering the acute signs, I believe that the L4 vertebral fracture is the cause of 
the current problem and is a separate problem unrelated to the previously diagnosed 
lumbosacral stenosis.
One of UKIs vet nurses spoke to the vet to ask why he thought the two were separate 
unrelated conditions. Ive listened to the call. Ive considered Mr Ts comments about the call 
but I dont think the vet struggled to hear/understand what was being said and I dont think 
he was being led in his answers by UKI. The vet did say the conditions were separate.
But the important issue is whether UKI could reasonably understand that the existing spinal 
condition was probably the cause of the vertebral fracture. I think it could because:
UKI asked the specialist vet why he thought the two conditions had different underlying causes. The vet said the dog had surgery in late 2019 resulting in him 
laying on his back. But when UKI asked if the dog laying on his back would have 
been the primary cause of the fracture the vet said no, but a trigger or exacerbation. 
So the vet wasnt saying the convalescence from the unrelated surgery was the main 
cause of the fracture. I think its unlikely that a dog with a healthy spine laying on his 
back even for a prolonged period would result in a vertebral fracture
the vet also told UKI that Mr T dog could have fallen running as the dog had been 
active before the problem. But theres no evidence of a trauma happening that would 
result in a fracture
UKI provided evidence that spondylosis causes the formation of bony spurs along the 
vertebral bones and the spurs can fracture. I think UKI could reasonably consider 
thats probably what happened to Mr Ts dog. UKI reasonably thought the specialist 
vet hadnt given persuasive evidence that the vertebral fracture was a new condition 
which was unrelated to Mr Ts dogs existing degenerative spinal condition.
Ive also considered Mr Ts point that it was DM which caused his dogs lameness in 
January 2020 so the investigations should be covered as being for that new condition. The 
letter of June 2021 from Mr Ts regular vet says she saw Mr Ts dog in January 2021 when 
he had severe hind limb paralysis. And while hed been diagnosed with lumbosacral disease 
and suspected DM, given his symptoms including the lack of severe spinal pain she 
suspected the cause of his deterioration was DM.
UKI doesnt dispute that Mr Ts dog had DM and that it progressed in the 12 months since 
the blood test identified that the dog had the DM gene. UKI paid for the blood test to identify 
DM. But I think UKI can fairly say DM was found as an incidental finding in the 2020 scans 
and other investigations and that Mr Ts dogs main clinical signs of back pain was caused 
by the vertebral fracture because:
Mr Ts dogs clinical history from his regular vet shows in that January 2020 he was 
showing signs of a lot of pain and discomfort in his back. He was referred for a MRI 
and other tests to find the cause of the back pain. The evidence from UKI is that 
these symptoms werent clinical signs of DM as thats a nonpainful spinal cord 
disease
UKIs evidence is that the findings of the January 2020 MRI; L4 vertebral fracture, 
ventral and lateral osteophytosis surrounding intervertebral L4-L5, lumbosacral 
disease, disc protrusion and bilateral lumbosacral stenosis relate to Mr Ts dog 
ongoing spinal condition. Mr Ts specialist vets report doesnt mention DM as the 
cause of the back pain. The specialist vet didnt tell UKI the dog had DM and that 
was the cause of the January 2020 problems when he spoke to UKI
UKIs evidence is that as DM is caused by a genetic mutation it can be diagnosed by 
a blood test alone. The MRI and other investigations werent necessary for the DM to 
be diagnosed. Theres no evidence to the contrary, and even if there was I think the 
clinical notes show the MRI and other scan were to diagnose the cause of Mr Ts 
dogs pain, which wasnt caused by DM. UKI paid for the blood test that diagnosed 
DM. Its also said it paid for Mr Ts subsequent claims for hydrotherapy for DM, which 
was reasonable.
I understand the investigations in this disputed claim were to diagnose the cause of Mr Ts 
dogs pain and the claim wasnt for treatment. But as Im satisfied that UKI reasonably 
understood that the findings of the investigations were the cause of the pain was related to 
the ongoing spinal condition it reasonably limited its settlement of the claim to the policy limit for that condition. In addition UKI paid the part of the claim relating to the new DM condition, 
which was the blood test only.
Overall Im satisfied that UK fairly settled the claim with the payments it made and it doesnt 
need to pay anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T didnt agree and gave a detailed response. In summary he said:
the DM wasnt an incidental finding of the MRI and scans. Those procedure were part 
of the process to find out what was wrong with his dog. His dogs lameness was 
caused by DM not the existing spinal issues. His specialist vet told him his dog had 
no pressure on his spinal cord by the injured disc so that wasnt the cause of the 
lameness. DM was considered the probable cause of the lameness which continued 
to deteriorate until his dog had to be put to sleep
he had experience of dogs with DM and researched the disease. Vets hed spoken to 
and vet websites said the blood test was only an indicator that a dog may develop 
DM as just showed the dog has the relevant gene. Mr T provided extracts from 
several specialist vet practices websites which he says showed MRI and scans were 
required to provide an accurate diagnosis of DM
he followed vets advice to carry out the investigative procedures which was the only 
way to fully diagnose a condition which later turned out to be DM. As UKI opened a 
claim for DM it should have paid for all the processes around the diagnosis of that 
condition.
We asked for UKIs comment on Mr Ts response. In summary it said :
it wanted to clarify that it didnt think DM can be definitively diagnosed by a blood test 
alone. The blood test showed Mr Ts dog was at high risk of DM which is why it 
opened the claim for DM and paid for that test. The information from the referral 
centres websites Mr T provided said they cant 100% diagnose DM without first 
ruling out other causes for the clinical signs. Some but not all dogs with DM will have 
an MRI but many vets use the presenting clinical signs and other risk factors to make 
a presumed diagnosis and treat accordingly
Mr Ts dog went to the vet in January 2020 with various clinical signs that he was in 
pain and that was the reason he was referred for the MRI. The vet also gave him 
additional  pain relief for the signs of back pain. DM doesnt cause pain. The vet 
records didnt mention DM as a potential underlying cause for the clinical signs or a 
reason to do the MRI
the MRI diagnosed a vertebral fracture as the underlying cause of the dogs clinical 
signs of pain, which at that point which was the only reason for the MRI. The 
vertebrae fracture was related to his previous spinal issues. The DM wasnt the 
cause of the pain and was an incidental finding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all of Mr Ts points, which Ive summarised above, in making my decision. Im sorry to disappoint him but looking at the overall evidence I still think UKI fairly 
settled the claim. I dont uphold this complaint.
From both parties responses I accept that a MRI is sometimes used to diagnose DM and 
will give a definite diagnosis of DM. But Mr Ts response hasnt changed what the overall vet 
evidence shows about why his dog was referred for a MRI in January 2020, what the MRI 
showed as the cause of those clinical signs that caused the referral and whether the cause 
was related to Mr Ts dogs previous existing spinal condition.
For the reasons in my provisional findings and these findings Im still satisfied that:
Mr Ts dogs was referred for the MRI and other scans in January 2020 due to clinical 
signs of back pain and to find the cause of the back pain, which wasnt caused by 
DM which is a nonpainful disease
the MRI/scans showed that a vertebral fracture was the reason for the clinical signs 
which had caused the referral for MRI/scans 
UKI could reasonably understand that the existing spinal condition was probably the 
cause of the vertebral fracture.
In these circumstances I think UKI fairly limited its settlement of the claim for the MRI/scans 
investigations to the policy limit for Mr Ts dogs existing spinal condition and paying for the 
blood test under the new DM condition. UKI doesnt need to pay anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman