DRN-3936486
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMSL) have applied a late payment
marker about an account to her credit file.
What happened
Miss M held a catalogue shopping account with another business taken out in December
2018. This account was then sold to DMSL in March 2021. At this point, the total balance on
the account was £1,792.73 and a repayment plan of £50 a month was agreed shortly after
with Miss M to be taken by the first day of each month.
Miss M says in April 2022, she missed a regular payment of £50 to the account, which she
forgot required manually paying online. As a result, a missed payment marker was put on
Miss Ms credit file for the account with DMSL.
Miss M says she wasnt notified of the missed payment nor contacted about this by DMSL.
Instead, Miss M says she was notified of the missed payment marker by a company who
display her credit report and other credit information. Miss M doesnt think its fair DMSL
have applied a missed payment marker to her credit file after having missed the payment by
just one day and says the marker has lowered her overall credit score. Miss M has asked for
DMSL to remove the marker from her credit file and for them to set up a continuous payment
to avoid this issue occurring again in the future.
DMSL recognise that automatic payments were set up and the last automatic payment
received was in January 2022. However, DMSL initially said Miss M experienced difficulties
with their card payment system in both February and March 2022, resulting in her card being
removed from their systems on 1 March 2022. As a result, Miss M logged into their online
portal the make the payments manually in February and March 2022. Later on, DMSL told
us that in fact, the February and March 2022 payments didnt go through as Miss M either
cancelled the payment via her bank or closed her account.
DMSL say Miss M was due to make a payment on 1 April 2022, but they didnt receive Miss
Ms payment until 13 April 2022  which was after theyd reported the missed payment to the
Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). DMSL say they have a duty to ensure they are recording
a true reflection of the account to CRAs and that they send monthly updates. So, they didnt
uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Our Investigator looked into things for Miss M. In summary, she said DMSL didnt make Miss
M aware that they wouldnt automatically be taking a payment from her in April 2022.
Therefore, Miss M wasnt aware she had to make the payment manually nor that she
needed to give DMSL her card details. So, our Investigator recommended DMSL remove the
late payment marker for this account from Miss Ms credit file and also pay her £50
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Miss M agreed. But DMSL didnt. They said because Miss Ms card declined in both
February and March 2022 (with Miss M making a manual payment via their portal in both
months), its likely she would have been aware that this situation could reoccur in April 2022.
DMSL said as Miss Ms card had been declined and deleted from their system in March
2022, they werent able to automatically take a payment in April 2022 as they werent in
possession of valid card details. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter setting out the below:
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the payment due in April 2022 wasnt made when it
should have been. Whats left for me to decide is if DMSL were right to apply a late payment
marker to Miss Ms credit file as a result of the payment in April 2022 being made late. And if
theres anything DMSL need to do to put things right for Miss M.
From the information available to me, Miss M was aware £50 needed to be paid by the first
day of each month. I say this because theres an email from Miss M to DMSL where she
confirms she received a letter which advised her current arrangement was to pay £50 a
month on or before the first day of each month.
It seems up until January 2022, automatic payments were being made through a continuous
payment arrangement  this is where a recurring payment is set up towards an outstanding
balance using a customers debit or credit card details. However, from February 2022
onwards, this arrangement had stopped and manual payments of £50 needed to be made by
Miss M.
Miss M told us she forgot she needed to make the payment manually online in April 2022 
she said due to the medication shes on, her memory isnt great. While I empathise with what
Miss M has told us, I think its fair to suggest the missed payment was as a result of Miss M
forgetting to make the payment, rather than something DMSL did or didnt do. Miss M says
the payment was only one day late so the late payment marker should be removed from her
credit file. However, from DMSLs internal notes, I can see the payment was made on 13
April 2022  so it was more than one day late. In any case, even though Miss M made the
payment in the end, as the payment was made later than the date it was due by 1 April
2022, I think its fair for DMSL to record a late payment marker for this account on Miss Ms
credit file. DMSL have a duty to record accurate information about accounts to CRAs and I
can see from the email they sent to Miss M on 1 June 2021 they explained they report late
and missed payment information to CRAs. I can only require DMSL to remove this marker if
they applied it unfairly or incorrectly, but I dont think they have.
I note DMSL previously removed a late payment marker they applied to this account in May
2021. But according to their letter to Miss M in August 2021, it appears this was done
because there was a delay in responding to Miss Ms emails. Although my decision doesnt
make a finding on the instance in May 2021, I dont find this to be a reason to ask DMSL to
remove the late payment marker applied in April 2022.
DMSL have said Miss M was required to make a manual payment of £50 in February and
March 2022, so she ought to have been aware she needed to make a manual payment in
April 2022. But Miss M said when she contacted DMSL in April 2022, she was unclear as to
whether she had a continuous payment arrangement set up or whether she had to pay
monthly. Even though Miss M has acknowledged she forgot the payment in April 2022 was
required manually online, I can understand why there may have been some confusion as
automatic payments were being taken successfully up until January 2022 and I havent seen
any evidence to suggest DMSL let Miss M know the continuous payment arrangement had
ended.
The screenshots DMSL provided show there was an attempt to take the payments
automatically in February and March 2022 but failed. The reason shown against the failed
automatic attempts in February and March 2022 says refused. DMSL explained this refusalreason is when a customer has cancelled the payment via their bank or closed their account.
This is different to what DMSL previously explained to us about Miss M experiencing
difficulties with their card payment system and her card being removed from their system.
Miss M recently told us that due to a fraudulent payment being taken from her account in
January 2022, her bank issued her with a new card. Miss M has provided screenshots of her
bank account in February and March 2022 and I can see an attempt at a £50 payment was
made in both months, but the notification says declined, your cards expired. Miss M has
also provided us with bank statements from January to the end of April 2022, showing her
account was open. So, I find Miss Ms explanation of what happened to be plausible and I
dont think Miss M cancelled the payment nor closed her account as suggested by DMSL.
Miss M says DMSL should have told her she missed the payment on 1 April 2022, but
instead she found out from another business. DMSL have said Miss M would have been
aware the payment hadnt been made in April 2022 as the February and March 2022
payments werent successful when they attempted to take the payments automatically, so
Miss M would have known the automatic payment process wasnt in place. I can appreciate
DMSL point and I dont find this to be an unreasonable assumption. But I still think DMSL
could have notified Miss M that the continuous payment arrangement had ended.
Additionally, Miss M says she was never notified by DMSL there was a problem with them
attempting to take automatic payments after January 2022. And I dont think Miss M would
have necessarily known that by her bank issuing her a new card, that this would
automatically mean the continuous payment arrangement she had with DMSL ended. I think
it would have been helpful for DMSL to let Miss M know there was an issue with them being
able to take automatic payments, regardless of the reason why the automatic payments
stopped. I also think it would have been good customer service for DMSL to offer Miss M the
opportunity to set these up again and I think they ought to have explained to her what was
required to reinstate this process. But I havent seen any evidence to show me
communication was sent to Miss M notifying her of the failed payments nor that the
continuous payment process had ended.
Overall, I think its fair for DMSL to record a late payment marker for the payment in April
2022 as it was made late. But I do think there could have been better communication with
Miss M about the continuous payments that had failed and also offering her the opportunity
to set these up again. So, for these reasons, I currently think £50 compensation is fair.
Miss M has asked for a continuous payment arrangement to be set up to avoid any future
issues like this and also due to her memory issue, Miss M says she finds that having
continuous payments help her. I can understand why Miss M wants this set up again, but
she will need to contact DMSL about this, if she hasnt done so already.
DMSL responded and confirmed theyll arrange to pay the compensation amount 
recommended in my provisional decision to Miss M. Miss M responded and expressed her 
upset about DMSLs lack of communication which could have prevented damaging her credit 
score. Miss M added she said she had no further comments. Both Miss M and DMSL 
confirmed the debt has recently been sold to another business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any other information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision - so I still think DMSL should pay Miss M £50 compensation and I think its fair for DMSL to record a late payment marker for the payment in April 2022 as it 
was made late.
I note both parties have confirmed the debt has since been sold to another business. So, if 
Miss M wishes to discuss setting up any future payment arrangements, its likely shell need 
to contact the business who now owns her debt. 
My final decision
For reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I require Debt Managers (Services) 
Limited to pay Miss M £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman