DRN-2305472
The complaint
Mr E complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) for declining a claim for storm damage 
at his rental property. He wants AXA to reconsider its decision. He is also concerned that the 
loss adjuster for AXA spoke with his tenant about the damage when visiting the property. 
What happened
Mr E has owned a property for around 12 years, which he rents out.
Around 6 years ago, Mr E had the chimney removed from the property, and a patch was 
inserted into the roof.
In late 2019, after periods of heavy rain, Mr Es tenant reported water ingress into the top 
bedrooms of the property. 
Mr E submitted a claim under his landlords insurance, for what he believed was storm 
damage. 
In October 2019, a loss adjuster on behalf of AXA attended the property. He carried out an 
inspection of the property and attic space, took photographs of the damage and roof 
condition, and spoke with the tenant. 
The tenant reported having first noticed water ingress in August 2019 and reported that they 
had been at the property for around 6 months. 
The loss adjuster considered that there was no evidence of damage which could be 
attributed to a single storm event. He noted that there was staining to the rafters, and that a 
roof fence inside showed signs of decay. He also reported that the gable wall had not been 
built up high enough as daylight could be seen from inside. 
AXA, on receipt of the loss adjusters report, declined the claim. It considered that the poor 
weather had only highlighted pre-existing issues with the property, and that the property was 
in need of general repair and maintenance.
Mr E complained. H considered that the damage to the roof was due to storms and did not 
think it was an issue of workmanship as the chimney had been removed some years earlier 
and there had been no issue in the intervening period. 
AXA sent Mr E its final response in March 2020. It apologised for the delay and confusion 
over the complaints process, and offered him £100 compensation to reflect this. In respect of 
the substantive complaint, AXA maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Mr E was unhappy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties.
This was that, based on the evidence, AXA could fairly decline the claim under both storm 
damage and accidental damage parts of the policy. In respect of whether the loss adjuster 
did anything wrong in speaking to the tenant, he did not consider this was unreasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Overall our investigator did not ask AXA to do anything further. 
Mr E did not accept this view and made a number of submissions. He asked for an 
ombudsman decision and repeated that he did not think there was any issue with the 
workmanship of the roof or wall rebuilding as no issue had occurred in the 6 years prior to 
the heavy rainfall. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The weather conditions at the relevant times did not meet the definition set out in Mr 
Es policy for a storm event; 
There were conditions recorded which we could consider to be violent winds, but the 
damage which occurred at the property is not of the type usually associated with 
wind damage. For example, the roof tiles remained in place, but water had been 
penetrating under the roof tiles, and the bricks at the gable were not built up enough 
to prevent water ingress.
AXAs loss adjuster has given a detailed and persuasive report setting out his 
reasons for considering the damage to be from gradually operating causes, and not 
from a storm event. Expert evidence supporting the complaint has not been 
produced. 
In respect of AXAs loss adjuster speaking to the tenant, I do not think this is 
unreasonable. The loss adjuster was seeking information about how the damage 
manifested and appears to have given this appropriate weight. I have seen no 
evidence that Mr Es data was shared. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint and do not ask AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman