DRN-4433366
The complaint
Mr P complains about a decision taken by MBNA Limited (MBNA) to decline a section 75 
claim he made against it.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr P purchased a set of Apple AirPods from a store that I will call J. The 
cost of the AirPods was £124.49 and Mr P paid for them using his MBNA credit card.
In mid-2023 the AirPods and/or accessories (goods) failed. J refused to repair or replace 
the goods for Mr P so he made a claim, as was his right, against MBNA under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
MBNA considered Mr Ps section 75 claim but declined it. Mr P was unhappy with this 
declinature so complained.
MBNA considered Mr Ps complaint about it decision to decline his section 75 claim and 
concluded it had done nothing wrong in doing so.
Unhappy with MBNAs decision to decline his section 75 claim and to not uphold his 
complaint, Mr P complained to our service.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
MBNA had done nothing wrong.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I wanted to point out that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored
it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. In particular, Mr P paid for the goods using a form of credit that 
gives him rights under section 75. Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain 
circumstances if the debtor (Mr P) has, in relation to a transaction financed by a credit 
agreement, any claim against the supplier (J) in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach 
of contract, then he has a like claim against the credit provider (MBNA).
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
section 75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ps complaint, Ive taken section 75 
into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, 
a court might reach if Mr P pursued a claim for breach of contract. This service is an 
informal alternative to the courts and operates differently from them.
Further, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. This provision applies to the goods that J sold to Mr P. Mr P says that J
breached this provision and he has a like claim against MBNA as against J for this breach.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Let me start by saying Ive no doubt that the goods failed and MBNA havent disputed that. 
And I understand that must be frustrating for Mr P. But for me to hold MBNA liable for the 
failure and to say the goods werent of satisfactory quality at the time they were bought by 
Mr P, I must be satisfied the evidence confirms that. And in this case Im not persuaded it 
does. 
The goods failed two and half years after Mr P purchased them, outside of the warranty 
period. The CRA says its Mr Ps responsibility to provide evidence the failure was as a result 
of a fault that was present or developing when he bought the goods. But, whilst the report 
provided by Mr P, from J, confirms the goods have failed, it doesnt explain why they failed 
or that they failed as a result of the goods being faulty, or as a result of a fault developing, at 
the time of purchase. 
I accept that Mr P disagrees, but without conclusive evidence to show there was a fault with 
the goods, or that one was developing, when Mr P bought them from J, I cant say that 
MBNA acted unreasonably by declining his section 75 claim. Im not persuaded, based on 
everything that Ive been provided with, that I can conclude a breach of contract has taken 
place in this case.
I note that Mr P says the failure of the goods could have had catastrophic consequences and 
they shouldnt have failed after just two and half years. But my decision can only focus on 
what has happened in the circumstances of the case, not what could have happened. And 
there are many reasons why the goods may have failed. None of the evidence provided 
confirm those reasons. It follows that, without being able to evidence there was a fault 
present or developing when Mr P bought the goods, I cant ask MBNA to do anything here.Although not a point raised by Mr P I would like to add, for the sake of completeness, that 
Im satisfied that a chargeback couldnt have been raised in the particular circumstances of 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman