DRN-1791799
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society (trading as Derbyshire Building Society) 
mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside her 
mortgage. To keep things simple, Ill refer to the business as Nationwide in the rest of this 
decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2000 with a mortgage. 
The policy covered Mrs S for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says she didnt need PPI and that the Nationwide advised her it would be a good idea 
to take PPI as she was paying for the mortgage on her own. I cant know what was 
discussed with Nationwide when she took out her mortgage. So, as well as taking into 
account what Mrs S has said, Ive looked that the paperwork from the time of the sale.
I can see that she signed a separate PPI application saying she wanted PPI. This made it 
clear that PPI was optional and she didnt need to take it. Her mortgage offer set out the cost 
of PPI separately. So, I think it likely Mrs S was told that PPI was optional and decided to 
take it to protect her mortgage repayments.
Mrs S says she didnt need the policy but was advised to take it. I dont doubt that Mrs S is 
doing her best to recall what happened at the time, but Im conscious that this sale took 
place around 20 years ago and the sale of insurance is not always that memorable and 
memories can, and do, fade over time. Also, based on what shes said about what the 
Nationwide adviser said, I dont think theres enough to show that he advised her to take 
PPI. Also, looking at the paperwork, and taking into account what weve learnt about the 
sales processes usually used by this business to sell PPI, I think it more likely that this was a 
non-advised sale. That means that Nationwide didnt have to consider whether the policy 
was suitable for her. But, it still have to give her clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI, so she could make an informed choice and decide for herself if the PPI was 
right for her and she wanted to buy it. But to avoid any misunderstanding, even if the adviser had advised Mrs S to take PPI, from 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I dont think the policy was unsuitable for  
 Mrs Ss needs. Nor can I see that having clearer information about the PPI wouldve 
led  Mrs S to take a different decision at the time and not take PPI. Ill explain why.
Mrs S said she wouldve got six months worth of full pay and six months worth of half sick 
pay from work if she was off work sick. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ss work 
benefits and for up to 12 months per successful claim. So, I think it couldve provided her 
with a useful benefit to protect her home. It wouldve allowed her to meet her other 
household expenses from her sick pay at what mightve been a difficult time for her 
financially, particularly if she was on half pay. 
The PPI cost Mrs S around £23 per month providing cover of £450 per month. The policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely that Mrs S wouldve 
made a different decision if clearer information about the cost had been provided. The policy 
was paid for by monthly instalments so Mrs S couldve cancelled the policy at any time 
without losing out financially.
Mrs S was eligible to take out the policy. And her circumstances dont suggest she wouldve 
been caught by any of the main exclusions or limitations in the policy. So, I dont think she 
needed better information about these things.
In summary, I think Mrs S agreed to take out the cover, knowing she didnt have to. And 
given it provided broadly what I think she expected when she agreed to it, I dont think she 
would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if she had been 
better informed. So, I dont think that Mrs S has lost out here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman