DRN-3136207
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint arises from her central heating insurance policy with British Gas Insurance
Limited. Mrs B is represented in this complaint by Mr C but for ease, all references in this
decision will be to Mrs B.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in September 2021, the main parts of which is 
copied below: 
British Gas installed a new warm air gas boiler in Mrs Bs property in 2003. She has
apparently had the boiler serviced annually by British Gas since then and in 2010 took out
this policy with British Gas, which also includes an annual service of the boiler. During the
service carried out in 2014, British Gass engineer told Mrs B that there was insufficient air
flow and issued an at risk notice for the boiler as he deemed it unsafe to operate. The
engineer said that an additional air vent would need to be installed. Mrs B says she had this
installed at a cost of £150.
In 2015, another engineer said the previous years installation should be removed and
replaced. Mrs B says this work cost her £500. Then during the annual service 2019, Mrs B
was told that the ventilation was still not sufficient. British Gas said it attended in July 2019
with a Safety Assurant Engineer to investigate fully the ventilation issues. It assessed that
the best solution would be to cut vents into the cupboard doors, into the hall and then a vent
installed going from the hall floor to the outside of the property. British Gas offered to do this
as a gesture of goodwill. However, I understand Mrs B didnt want to do this, as she didnt
want the cupboard doors to be cut and ventilation grills fitted to them. Mrs B apparently
suggested a different route for the ventilation but then suspected asbestos was found and so
this was not viable according to British Gas.
Mrs B is very unhappy about the dealings with British Gas and the condition of her boiler.
She has made a number of submissions, which Ive summarised below:
British Gas failed to install the boiler in accordance with the manufacturers
instructions in respect of ventilation in 2003. The correct ventilation was never
installed or provided and the airing cupboard location of the boiler did not comply with
the manufacturer's instructions.
British Gas has tried to say that new ventilation is needed due to a change in
regulations, rather than a failure on its part during installation.
The incorrect ventilation provision has meant the boiler has not operated as
efficiently as it should, meaning shes used more gas at greater cost over the years.
British Gas also failed to diagnose the undersized ventilation during the annual
service visits in previous years, resulting in further issues with the boiler and
additional expense.
It also failed to identify the safety issues the gas supplier found in June 2020, raising
further doubt about British Gass engineers abilities, given these were never
mentioned at any annual service.
The remedial work she had carried out at British Gass behest (totalling around
£1,200) hasnt addressed the real issue with the boiler, which was that it wasnt
properly installed in the first place.
British Gas should not have issued notices requiring her to carry out remedial work
which was, in fact, its responsibility.
British Gas offered to put vents in the doors containing the boiler, the vents would
have opened into the hallway, so this would not have made any difference to the fact
there was not proper external ventilation.
Mrs B wants a written admission that the original installation in 2003/4 was not, and remains,
contrary to the manufacturers instructions and British Standards and an apology for the
subsequent problems that stem from that failure; to be reimbursed for the work she has had
done; a new boiler to be fitted correctly; and compensation for the excessive consumption of
gas resulting from the fact that adequate ventilation was never installed, which she puts at
an extra £1,000.
British Gas says the boiler was fitted almost 18 years ago and regulations change over time.
It advised that the best option to resolve the issues with no further problems, is to have the
vents cut into the cupboard door, a vent in the hall floor and a vent fitted under the floor to
the outside of the property. It is still prepared to do this free of charge.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. The investigator was satisfied that the
remedial work carried out didnt address the real issue with the boiler, which was that it
wasnt properly installed in the first place. She therefore recommended that British Gas pay
Mrs B £650 to cover the cost of the remedial work she had done on British Gass advice and
pay her £150 compensation for the trouble caused to her.
Mrs B accepted the investigators assessment but British Gas did/// not.
British Gas says that the cupboard doors which house the boiler previously had ventilation in
them but they have been replaced when some work was done to change the flue. British
Gas says this was done with the incorrect materials and the ventilation was taken in to the
compartment from the loft and under the floor via ducting made from washing
machine/tumble dryer hoses. It did not do this work and theres no evidence the boiler was
installed incorrectly in the first place. British Gas also says that at the first service visit, its
engineer recorded that the flue was not to current standards which would be because
thered been a minor change in regulations but there is no safety risk. There are records of
readings taken which show it as inspected and safe on the first visit.
British Gas also says it did not carry out the remedial work, theres no record of what was
done, or invoices provided but, in any case, it was for those contractors to ensure they had
completed the work to the correct standard. Based on the information provided and, as it has
tried to offer solutions as a gesture of goodwill, it doesnt agree that it should cover the cost
of the remedial work £650, or pay any compensation
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
The boiler was installed by British Gas Services Limited but, while it is part of the British
Gas group, this is not the same legal entity as British Gas Insurance Limited. I only havejurisdiction over British Gas Insurance Limited in regard to its handling of insurance claims
and have no jurisdiction over British Gas Services Limited with regard to installation of
boilers carried out as a private contract of works.
I therefore do not have the power to determine if the original installation was done correctly
or not; and even if it were proved to have been done incorrectly, I have no power to make
any award in Mrs Bs favour regarding that. This would be a matter for other bodies. I do,
however, have the power to consider whether there was a defect that should have been
identified in earlier services and what was done and the advice given at each service visit.
Advice regarding remedial work
There was apparently a first service visit in 2010, when the flue was recorded as being not to
current standards but it was operating safely. It was a few years later that British Gas
apparently first said that remedial work was needed to make the boiler safe. Mrs B says that
the work she was advised to have done, was not right and did not resolve the problem.
British Gas says that while Mrs B had some work done, it was not done correctly (such as
using washing machine ducting as ventilation). British Gas also says it was for the
contractors Mrs B employed to ensure they were carrying out the work properly.
British Gass arguments do carry some weight. Its obligation at each service was to identify
any issues and inform Mrs B about them. As it was not responsible for any remedial work
(under the terms of the insurance policy) it would be for the contractors employed by Mrs B
to assess and do the work they thought required. If there was any professional difference of
opinion about the flue and/or ventilation work needed, I would expect this to have been
raised at the time. So even if British Gas advised work was needed that was not right, I do
not consider it can be held responsible for any work done or not done by other parties.
Mrs B may have relied on the remedial notices to have work done by third parties but, as
both parties agree the ventilation is not right, I cannot say that this means British Gas is
responsible for the ventilation not being rectified.
In addition, while I have no real reason to doubt what Mrs B has said, there is no supporting
evidence of the work Mrs B says she had done and the cost of any such work. Overall
therefore I do not consider British Gas can reasonably be asked to pay Mrs B £650 for work
apparently not done correctly by third parties and which in any case has not been evidenced.
Again for clarity  even though Mrs B is adamant the ventilation problems are due to the
incorrect installation of the system  as this was not done by British Gas Insurance Limited, I
cannot make any award based on the standard of the installation.
Mrs B has also said that British Gas should have identified the ventilation problems sooner
than it did and that the information provided about what was needed was inconsistent. I
agree that the information provided at each annual service does not seem to have been
consistent and probably could have been more helpful. However, even if these issues should
have been apparent to British Gas sooner (and were not due to changes in regulations that
happened afterwards), I do not think it makes any difference to the outcome of the
complaint. I say this because the faults would still need to be rectified properly and, for the
reasons given above, it was not British Gass obligation to do that work. Mrs B has also said
the ventilation issues mean she has used more gas than should have been necessary but
there is no independent evidence to support this.
British Gas has offered to do the work that it says is required to rectify the ventilation issues.
While Mrs B does not agree with what is proposed, I am unable to conclude it is incorrectwithout some other expert opinion to support that assertion. I think British Gas has made a
reasonable offer to resolve the complaint and I do not consider it needs to do anything
further, or make any payment to Mrs B.
I understand Mrs B will be disappointed with this decision, having already received a
recommendation from the investigator that British Gas should make a payment to her.
However, both parties are entitled to appeal to an ombudsman - the final stage in our
process - and it is my role to review the matter afresh and make my own decision as to the
appropriate outcome. And for the reasons given above, including that we cannot attribute
any installation faults to British Gas Insurance Limited (even if they had been proven), I do
not agree with the outcome recommended by the investigator.
My provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Mrs Bs response to my provisional decision 
Mrs B does not accept my provisional decision. She has raised a number of points, which 
Ive summarised below: 
My decision is based on false and incorrect information and suppositions. I have not 
considered the evidence presented, so how can she submit new evidence?
Ive stated I do not have the power to determine if the original boiler installation was  
correct. If that is so, why was she referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by 
British Gas? 
The entire basis of her complaint is that the boiler was never installed correctly. 
British Gas admits this installation is incorrect by its willingness to make it comply, 
through the provision of extra ventilation. 
However, British Gass suggestion for how to make the boiler comply with the 
manufacturers installation instructions regarding ventilation are totally unacceptable, 
as a permanent external vent in the hall will make the house too cold. How can I say 
this is reasonable?
I have said British Gas assessed that the best solution was to provide the above 
ventilation. This is only the 'best' solution from its point of view because it would cost 
the least. It is not the best solution from her position. 
British Gas says this offer is made as a 'gesture of goodwill' but it appears more to be 
a shirking of responsibility and I am colluding with British Gas in describing this
as fair and reasonable.
If I have no power to consider the complaint, how can I decide this offer is 
reasonable?
British Gas says that the original cupboard doors were louvered to provide 
ventilation. This is incorrect. The doors were fully lined with asbestos and therefore 
did not provide ventilation and in any event, this would still not have been adequate 
ventilation. 
She cannot provide evidence of the cost of the work she had done but British Gas  
accepts that work was carried out, and the investigator agreed made an award. Why 
do I feel empowered to completely overturn an investigators conclusion?
The whole process has been unfair and biased.
Mrs B says she will accept a ventilator, fitted at British Gas cost, to ventilate the boiler to the 
outside air, but not via the hallway. 
British Gas has not added anything further. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision, I understand Mrs Bs disappointment with my decision, 
having already received a recommendation from the investigator that British Gas should 
make a payment to her. However, as I also explained, our process is that either party is 
entitled to appeal to an ombudsman who will consider the matter afresh and make their own 
decision as to the appropriate outcome. It is only an ombudsmans decision that is binding (if 
accepted by the consumer) and it is the final stage in our process. Often the deciding 
ombudsman will agree with the investigators initial assessment but if the deciding 
ombudsman does not agree then it can be overturned. Having considered all the evidence, I 
did not agree with the investigators assessment. 
The main part of Mrs Bs complaint is about the initial installation of the boiler but, for the 
reasons explained in my provisional decision, this service does not have the power to 
consider that or make any award in relation to that, even if it had been proven that the initial 
installation was incorrect. I have no discretion about this. I am not saying that British Gas 
Services Limited was not at fault, simply that I cannot make any determination or award 
about the installation. 
However, as there was also a complaint about the defects not being spotted at annual 
services provided under the insurance policy, Mrs B was rightly referred to this service. And 
in any case, it is for us to determine if a complaint falls within our jurisdiction or not and not 
for an insurer to decide, so it is reasonable for the referral to us to be made. 
The work that Mrs B had carried out was not covered by the insurance policy and was 
required because of the way the boiler was installed. The work was not done by British Gas 
and it says it was not done correctly. I do not therefore see any reason why British Gas 
Insurance Limited (rather than British Gas Services Limited) should be expected to 
reimburse these costs, even if there were proof of payments made by Mrs B for them.
I provisionally concluded that the information provided at each annual service does not seem 
to have been consistent and could have been more helpful. I remain of that opinion. I also 
remain of the opinion that it makes no difference to the outcome of the complaint, as the 
faults would still need to be rectified properly and it was not British Gass obligation to do that 
work.
British Gas has offered to carry out some work to provide ventilation to the boiler. Mrs B is 
not happy with the way it has proposed to do that but, as I do not consider it needs to do 
anything under the insurance policy, and is not responsible for any of the works she had 
done privately not resolving the issue, I think its offer is reasonable and I remain of the 
opinion that it does not need to do anything further, or make any payment to Mrs B.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman