DRN-2042603
The complaint
Mr S says FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig lent to him irresponsibly. He 
said that Smart-Pig didnt carry out adequate affordability checks before lending. He thinks if 
it had done then it wouldnt have lent to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about seven loans Smart-Pig provided to Mr S between October 2015 and 
February 2018.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm date repaid
1 31/10/2015 £350 04/01/2016 01/01/2016
2 22/01/2016 £350 11/04/2016 09/04/2016
3 29/04/2016 £350 19/09/2016 17/09/2016
4 06/10/2016 £250 09/01/2017 07/01/2017
5 13/01/2016 £225 28/04/2017 01/05/2017
6 04/06/2017 £350 10/10/2017 13/10/2017
7 24/02/2018 £250 16/04/2018 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She thought the information Smart-Pig gathered at the 
time of sale showed the loans were likely to be unaffordable for Mr S. 
Smart-Pig disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that whilst Mr S indicated his likely 
expenditure within a range of values it was fair to use the middle of this range. This showed 
the loans were affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Smart-Pig should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint 
and have explained why below.
Why I dont think Smart-Pigs checks were proportionate for loans 1 to 3 and what 
proportionate checks wouldve shown
As our adjudicator explained, before loan 1, Smart-Pig asked Mr S to complete an expense 
form that looked at various expenditures and asked for an indication of these within a range 
of values. And if it is as assumed that Mr S expenditure was at, or near, the higher levels for 
these ranges then his ordinary expenditure would be higher than his income. So she thought 
it wasnt safe to lend to him. 
Smart-Pig has said that it was reasonable to assume that Mr S expenditure was in the 
middle of these ranges. And this would mean the lending was affordable. But I dont agree 
with this. The information Smart-Pig had showed that the lending was potentially 
unaffordable so it should have taken steps to make sure that this wasnt the case. 
Smart-Pig didnt do this. It assumed that Mr S expenditures wouldnt reach the higher 
amounts of the categories. And it also assumed that these categories captured all of Mr S 
likely expenditure. In my view both of these arent reasonable assumptions. I also dont think, 
what seems to have been a cursory check into Mr S expenditure, did enough to establish 
whether loans 1 to 3 was affordable for him. 
Mr S income over the three month educational term was modest at £2,500. And the total 
amount he would need to repay to Smart Pig over the same time period was a fairly high 
proportion of this, at not much below 20%. So, I dont think the loan repayments for loans 1 
to 3 were likely to be affordable for Mr S, when added to what I know about his normal 
expenditure. So, Im upholding his complaint about loans 1 to 3 on this basis. As both parties to the complaint are aware going forward Mr S did experience significant 
financial difficulty. I think this supports my view that this initial lending wasnt right for him. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 7 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Smart-Pigs 
lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Smart-Pig 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so Smart-Pig should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr S case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Smart-Pig ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had been indebted to Smart-Pig for around a year now. It  
had clear evidence that his finances were worsening. So Smart-Pig ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loans left in his finances and that Mr S indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Right from the outset Mr S was provided with a new loan a very short time after 
settling a previous one. This shows he had a continuing need for this kind of loan.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Smart-Pig. Loan 7 was 
taken out over two and a half years after Mr S first. And it was for a larger amount. 
Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Smart-Pig over 
an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Smart-Pig continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr S indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr S ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding Mr S complaint about loans and Smart-Pig should put things right.
Putting things right
Smart-Pig shouldnt have given Mr S loans 1 to 7.
If Smart-Pig has sold any outstanding debts Smart-Pig should buy these back if Smart-Pig 
are able to do so and then take the following steps. If Smart-Pig is not able to buy the debts 
back then Smart-Pig should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A) Smart-Pig should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Smart-Pig has already refunded.
B) Smart-Pig should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) Smart-Pig should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr S 
having made overpayments then Smart-Pig should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Smart-Pig 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Smart-Pig should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr S. Smart-Pig shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Smart-Pig has already written-off
E) Smart-Pig should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file in 
relation to loans 1 to 3. The overall pattern of Mr S borrowing for loans 4 to 7 means 
any information recorded about them is adverse, so Smart-Pig should remove these 
loans entirely from Mr S credit file. Smart-Pig do not have to remove loan 7 from 
Mr S credit file until it has been repaid, but Smart-Pig should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart-Pig to deduct tax from this interest. Smart-Pig 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax Smart-Pig has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr S complaint.
FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig should put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman