DRN-2977105
The complaint
Mrs T complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
should have used the date her husband passed away to value his pension policy, instead of 
the date it received all the required transfer documentation. She says that the value of the 
plan fell significantly between those dates.  
What happened
Mr T took out a drawdown plan with Royal London in 2012. 
Unfortunately, in February 2020 Mr T passed away. So Mrs T, in order to claim as a 
beneficiary, sent a death certificate to Royal London. She was then asked to provide further 
documentation to confirm her right to transfer the benefits into her name before payment of 
£337,182 was made to another provider in May 2020.
During this time Mrs T complained to Royal London about the fact that the value of the plan 
wasnt frozen on the date the death certificate was received. She said it hadnt been made 
clear that Royal London would use the date that it received all the outstanding 
documentation  which she didnt think was fair- to calculate the final fund value. She also 
complained about the extra documentation Royal London requested in April 2020 as she 
said that at no point had Royal London confirmed exactly what documents were required to 
complete the claim process. She said it wasnt fair for Royal London to decide that the 
beneficiaries would want the funds to remain invested in the same way as her late husband. 
 
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its terms and conditions (T&Cs) stated 
that the value wouldnt be calculated until all the outstanding documentation had been 
received. It said the value isnt frozen on or determined at the date of death and there would 
be occasions when the value would increase during the time taken to settle a claim.  But 
Royal London did accept that it could have been clearer about the additional forms required 
and offered Mrs T £100 compensation. 
But Mrs T wasnt happy with that as she thought Royal Londons T&Cs were vague and 
didnt specify what documentation was required in order to stop the clock on the valuation 
date. She didnt think Royal London itself knew what was required and felt its failure to act in 
a prompt manner caused her to suffer losses and some degree of distress and 
inconvenience. So she brought her complaint to us.
 
Mrs Ts adviser, who brought the complaint on her behalf, made some additional points in 
support of her case. He said:
Almost all insurance companies freeze the value of a policyholders plan on receipt of 
a death certificate. 
This had been Royal Londons policy until 2011 when it said it changed the policy 
following pressure from IFAs. 
The new policy was to keep a plan invested until all documentation was received. 
However, he thought this meant that in some cases where there was family conflict a 
considerable amount of time might elapse  so he didnt think the new policy was fair.
Neither he or the Royal London representative he spoke with were aware of the 2011 
changes  which he says remain unclear within the T&Cs booklet. 
When Mrs T was told she should have been aware of the policy about death claims 
Royal London was unable to tell Mrs T when its policy had changed and where it 
could be found within the T&Cs. 
Royal Londons policy led to a difficult situation with regards to plan valuations. It 
became a question of financial Russian roulette depending on when a policyholder 
died. Especially with regards to things like bonus rate declarations. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ts complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said he was satisfied that Royal Londons T&Cs made it clear that the value would be 
calculated on the date it received all the required documentation following Mr Ts death. He 
said Royal London made it clear that the pension would remain invested until that time and 
we couldnt hold it responsible for any investment loss that might have occurred. 
He also explained that, although other insurers may have different processes, we wouldnt 
usually interfere with a business procedures, as long as they were made clear to the client.  
Mrs T didnt agree. She said that her complaint wasnt about Royal Londons processes but 
what constituted all the documentation, as it wasnt set out anywhere in the T&Cs and was 
open to interpretation. She said this could lead to a long drawn out process in some cases 
and might constitute an unfair contract.
Mrs T wanted her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I do have 
some sympathy for the position Mrs T finds herself here, as she isnt happy that the value of 
her late husbands pension wasnt fixed at the date of his death and therefore this extended 
the time during which she risked the value of the fund falling  at what would have been a 
very difficult time for her. 
But I dont think Royal London has acted unfairly here  which I know will disappoint Mrs T-
so Ill explain my reasons.
Ive looked at the timeline of events after Mr Ts death and Ive seen how Royal London was 
advised of his death on 2 March and that by 6 April 2020 it had received all the relevant 
documentation needed to change ownership of the pension plan to Mrs T. But at that point 
Royal London said the funds still remained invested and would continue to do until it had 
received all the documentation required to complete a transfer  if that were the option Mrs T 
chose. 
So I can see that Royal Londons position was clear and that it would calculate the value of 
the funds on the date that all the required documentation was received. While on the other 
hand Mrs T thinks Royal London should have used the date that Mr T died to encash the 
funds and hold them until she decided what option to take with them, thereby guaranteeing 
the value wouldnt fall. 
So what I have to decide is whether Royal Londons position was clear and reasonable or 
whether it caused Mrs T to suffer any financial loss  or caused her undue distress and 
inconvenience by acting unfairly or by not communicating its requirements clearly. 
 Royal London has shown that in 2011 it changed its policy on how it would pay the benefits 
from such plans in the event of a policyholders death. The relevant section from its T&Cs 
stated:
6.2 Payment of benefits if you die. We will calculate the amount available as at the benefit 
calculation date. The benefit calculation date will be the business day on which we receive 
the last of the documentation and information that we require regarding your death.
So I think that set out Royal Londons position quite clearly and made its policyholders aware 
that investment would continue in the existing funds until all documentation was received 
appertaining to the final discharge of the plan to the relevant option chosen.
But I have to take into account that if the revised T&Cs had been sent out then only Mr T 
would have seen them, so I accept that its unlikely Mrs T, or her adviser, would have been 
aware of the death benefit policy when she first contacted Royal London. The T&Cs would 
have been available to them at any point after that, but I think I also need to consider if Royal 
London took any further steps to confirm its position regarding payment during the claim 
process.
Because while I dont think Royal London did anything wrong when carrying out its usual 
process, I think it did have a duty to make Mrs T or her adviser aware of how that process 
would work, and, more importantly, what constituted all the necessary documents. After all, if 
Mrs T wasnt made aware of what was needed then how could she submit it, and without 
being made aware of the implications of this it would seem unfair that the possibility of her 
plan falling in value wasnt something she could influence if she wanted to stop the clock. 
So Ive looked carefully at an email from Royal London to Mrs Ts adviser dated 
18 March 2020, which confirmed that it had received an expression of wishes form and 
would consider the information within it but also needed to gather further information to 
decide which beneficiaries to pay. The email also said that the bereavement claim value will 
be calculated as at the date we receive the last of the documentation required in order to 
settle the claim. The policy will remain invested in the same investment funds until this date. 
Therefore we are unable to confirm the exact claim value at this stage. However, for your 
reference, the current value of the policy is £320,093. 
This was sent to the adviser shortly after Royal London was notified of Mr Ts death and was 
the starting point for settling the claim. So, even if I were to agree that Mrs T and her adviser 
might not have been aware of the revised policy in the T&Cs from 2011, I do think they were 
made aware of the process at the earliest possible opportunity thereafter.
The same email also included a bereavement information form which gave details of the 
required information and documentation. It requested a copy of Mrs Ts identification, a copy 
of the will and a copy of the grant of representation (if applicable). This information  which 
was provided by Mrs T- was required for Royal London to proceed with our decision making 
process and would be used so that it could take this into account when exercising their 
discretion as to whom the benefits are paid.  So I think it was clear what Royal London 
required in order to complete the first part of the process. 
Ive also seen a copy of an options form that was then issued to Mrs T which set out the 
three options available and stated clearly that (claim value will be recalculated on the date 
of the last required documentation is received) and that we will require your chosen 
provider to contact us with the relevant documentation.So, when this information is taken together, I think its fair to say that Royal London did make 
its position clear with regards to how it would pay the late Mr Ts death benefits from his 
pension. I know Mrs T doesnt agree with its process and thinks the figure should be fixed at 
the date of death  which she says is in line with most other providers in the industry. But 
that doesnt mean Royal Londons approach is wrong. Its for a business to decide on its 
process, even if other firms take a different approach, and we wouldnt normally interfere in 
Royal Londons everyday commercial decisions. Its free to make those as its sees fit.
What I would expect is for Royal London to make its position clear before and during the 
claim process  which Im satisfied it did here.
However, I note that by 7 April 2020 all the information required for Royal London to exercise 
its discretion about who should benefit from the plan had been received and shortly after this 
Mrs T was confirmed as the owner of this policy. And part of Mrs Ts complaint is that only at 
this point was she made aware of further documents that were required by Royal London 
before it was able to carry out her wishes and finalise the value of the plan. But I dont think it 
wouldnt have been appropriate for Royal London to ask Mrs T what decision she wanted to 
make about the funds before that time as it hadnt decided that she would be the sole 
beneficiary of the plan.
 
And as Royal London had already made it clear that it wouldnt automatically encash the 
funds or value the fund until all the required documentation to settle the claim was 
received, then I wouldnt have expected it to value the funds until that time. But even if I 
were to take an opposing view and suggest that the value could have been calculated as of 
the date Mrs T became owner of the plan on 6 April 2020, I note that the value increased by 
nearly £10,000 from that date to the time it was eventually transferred. So, if I took that view, 
as Mrs T didnt suffer any financial loss during that period  indeed the plan increased 
significantly in value, there would be no compensation due.
Summary  
  
Royal London was the trustee of the late Mr Ts pension plan, and whilst it was provided with 
an expression of wishes form, it was ultimately responsible for making the decision to pay 
the proceeds appropriately.
In order to do that Royal London had to gather information about all the beneficiaries and 
then, after it exercised its discretion about who it should pay the proceeds, it needed to find 
out how that beneficiary wanted to use the funds  either within a Royal London pension 
product or by transferring elsewhere. 
Prior to and during this period of investigation and processing the claim, Royal London, 
through its T&Cs and the emails it sent after being notified of Mr Ts death, made it clear that 
the claim would only be settled when all the documents it required had been returned to it. 
By 6 April the initial requirements for establishing the beneficiaries had been fulfilled, but by 
7 April 2020 new documents were needed to complete the process of carrying out Mrs Ts 
wishes. When they were received the fund was transferred using the value at that time  
which is what Royal London said it would do regarding the death benefits.
I think Royal London was clear in what it said it would do and I think it carried that out 
appropriately. I know Mrs T thinks Royal London should have acted differently and that its 
actions meant the value of the fund fell after Mr T died. Its unfortunate the value did fall, and 
I can appreciate this happened at a very difficult time for Mrs T. But I dont think it means 
Royal Londons approach is wrong  its entitled to decide how it pays out plan proceeds in 
these situations as long as it explains this in its documentation.I note Royal London offered Mrs T £100 for any confusion and lack of clarity in its 
explanation of what additional documents it required in April 2020. 
Royal London has said that its offer hasnt yet been accepted, but I think its broadly within 
the range of what Id expect to see offered for such distress and inconvenience. So Ill leave 
it up to Mrs T if she wishes to make it known to Royal London that she will accept the offer of 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Its up to Mrs T if she 
wishes to take up Royal Londons offer of £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman