The complaint
Ms R says Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited has not properly compensated 
her for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms R opened a store card account in June 2005, at the time she was not sold PPI.
In June 2008 PPI was added to Ms Rs account after she called Home Retail to activate a 
new card.
The PPI remained on Ms Rs account until October 2018.
Ms R complained to Home Retail about the sale of the PPI. It agreed to uphold Ms Rs 
complaint and paid her £96.96 compensation.
Ms R doesnt think Home Retail has fully compensated her for the PPI premiums she was 
charged.
An adjudicator from this service thought Home Retail had fairly compensated Ms R. Ms R 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Home Retail has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So, I wont 
look into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Ms R. Ive looked at the compensation Home 
Retail has paid Ms R to see if it calculated the redress fairly.
Having done so I think Home Retail has fairly compensated Ms R, and Ill explain why.
Where a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id expect the business to, as far as is practical, put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in if the policy hadnt been sold.
When a business compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store card, wed normally 
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed then 
expect the business to refund to the consumer all the extra they paid because of the PPI.     
DRN-1882698Id also expect a business to add interest calculated at 8% simple for the time theyd not had 
use of the money.
In this case Home Retail has detailed records of all the PPI premiums that were charged to 
Ms Rs account from June 2008 when the PPI was added to her account.
The PPI premiums were not fixed. The PPI cost £1.30 for every £100 of outstanding balance 
on Ms Rs account each month.
I can see that although Mr R held the card for many years there were months when there 
was no outstanding balance, so PPI was not charged at all. And other time when the 
balance was small, so the PPI premium was minimal. For example, in March 2011 Ms R was 
charged only five pence. The highest amount Ms R was ever charged was in May 2015 
when her balance was £600.
Ive looked at the total premiums charged to Ms Rs account and I can see the total 
premiums are £67.19 and Home Retail has refunded this amount. And Home Retail has also 
refunded all the interest Ms R was charged because the PPI premiums were added to her 
account. And I can see it has paid Ms R compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for 
all the time she has been out of pocket.
Taking everything into account I think the offer made by Home Retail is fair and has been 
calculated in the way Id expect it to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Home Retails offer is fair. So, I make no further award against 
Home Retail.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman