DRN-4055591
The complaint
Mr T complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) blocked his account causing him financial loss as 
the funds couldnt be used for an investment opportunity.   
What happened
On 11 August 2022, following an internal review, Monzo blocked Mr Ts account. On 
12 August 2022, Monzo gave Mr T notice that it would be closing his account in two months 
time and unblocked the account. 
On 15 August 2022, Monzo blocked Mr Ts account again. Monzo removed the block on 
25 August 2022. 
Unhappy with Monzos actions, Mr T complained. In his email dated September 2022, Mr T 
made the following points: 
- Monzo disabled his account for over a week from 15 August 2022, and it was 
re-enabled only after Mr T explained he needed to minimise his losses
- No account was made for any financial distress Mr T may have suffered, including 
penalties for potential missed direct debit payments. But Mr T says he didnt suffer 
these, however he has missed out on investment returns as he didnt have access to 
his funds 
- Monzo should pay Mr T £938.33 for the loss of investment opportunity 
Monzo sent Mr T its final response to his complaint in which it said it was partially upholding 
it. In short, the key points it made were: 
- Its internal procedures were correctly followed when Mr Ts account was frozen on 15 
August 2022, and it carried out a review in line with regulatory guidelines 
- But Monzo shouldve reviewed Mr Ts case much quicker than it did. This caused a 
delay in him regaining access. Monzo were able to review and unblock the account 
on 15 August 2022, and it didnt do so causing a ten-day delay
- Monzo credited Mr Ts account with £150 to apologise for the inconvenience and 
upset caused 
- Monzo are happy to review any evidence related to the loss of an investment 
opportunity 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service. Monzo informed this service the account was 
closed on 12 November 2022, and a balance of a little over £150 remains in it. And the funds 
havent been returned to Mr T because he hasnt yet provided alternative bank details. 
One of our Adjudicators then began to look into Mr Ts complaint. In summary, Mr T made 
the following points: 
- He did not accept Monzos offer of £150 as it was far less than the profit he was 
prevented from making due to the account block
- The funds locked by Monzo denied Mr T the opportunity to create a cryptocurrency 
liquidity pool, and hes missed out on commissions because of that 
To support his above points, Mr T has sent in transaction details for cryptocurrencies 
timestamped 17 August 2022. And another for 24 August 2022. 
Our Adjudicator then sent Mr T their outcome on his complaint. They didnt uphold it, and in 
short, they made the following key findings: 
- Financial businesses are entitled to review accounts and may block them while doing 
so  this is in line with their legal and regulatory obligations. Monzo are not required 
to give a warning nor explanation 
- Monzo gave Mr T two months notice of account closure, this was done fairly and in 
line with the terms of the account
- Financial businesses cant always guarantee the availability of funds in a customer 
account as they have broader regulatory obligations to comply with. And they cant 
say Monzo should pay the profits Mr T expected had he invested the money  
investments arent always guaranteed a return   
- Monzo accepted it had caused unnecessary delays, and paid Mr T £150 for this. This 
is fair compensation, and it doesnt need to do anymore 
Mr T did not agree with what our Adjudicator said. He questions why Monzo doesnt have to 
explain its actions, suggesting it can act with impunity. And that Monzo must not be an 
efficiently run business given it blocked his account, unblocked it, served notice of closure, 
and then blocked it again. 
Mr T further says he should get compensation in line with what hes lost out on given hes 
been able to show he would have been able to turn a profit through a crypto based 
investment. Mr T says he isnt complaining about the closure of his account. 
As Mr T didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr T, so 
Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Monzo, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Ive looked at the information and explanations given to me by Monzo for its reviews and 
resulting blocks on 11 and 15 August 2022. Im satisfied that by doing so Monzo was 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. I do accept its a poor customer experience to have your account blocked in this way. But as 
Ive explained, Monzo hasnt done anything wrong here. 
Mr T isnt complaining about the closure of his account and has emphasised this in his 
response to what our Adjudicator said. So I dont need to consider the closure of Mr Ts 
account. 
Monzo say it caused a ten day delay in unblocking Mr Ts account from 15 August 2022. 
Because of the distress and inconvenience this caused, it has paid £150 into Mr Ts account. 
This brings me onto the crux of Mr Ts complaint, that is he hasnt been paid fair 
compensation for the financial loss hes suffered by being deprived of funds he would 
otherwise have invested into a crypto currency investment pool. 
Mr T has said he hasnt suffered any distress nor inconvenience but has missed out on an 
opportunity to earn nearly £1,000 from his blocked funds. Mr T has sent in information which 
he says shows he wouldve earned profit in line with what hes claimed. 
I accept Mr T was actively investing in crypto currencies around the time of the account 
blocks. But there is nothing to definitively show he would have taken around £5,000 that was 
restricted in his account and put it towards the crypto assets he has shown. 
Its generally our services approach to award 8% simple interest for the unfair deprivation of 
funds to compensate a complainant for any lost opportunity. I note that doing so here for the 
period Mr T was deprived of his funds, ten days, would mean an award of around £11. 
So given Monzo have already paid Mr T £150 for distress and inconvenience, something he 
says he didnt suffer, I dont think it needs to do anymore than it has.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman