DRN-1951544
Complaint
Mrs F says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs F bought the PPI policy alongside a credit card in 1999 to help her with her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. But Mrs F disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Mrs F has also raised some concerns thats shes referred to the Information 
Commissioners office. As this is being looked at by another organisation, I havent looked at 
those concerns as part of this decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Although Mrs F cant recall taking out the PPI, she says that either she was never told about 
the PPI or she was likely told it was a condition of the credit card. Otherwise she wouldnt 
have agreed to it. But Lloyds says the optional nature of the PPI was made clear and only 
added to her account after shed agreed to take it.  
Lloyds has provided a copy of her credit card application form. On it there is a separate 
section with a sub heading OPTIONAL FEATURES. There is a box for PPI under that 
heading and customers had the option to either tick a Yes box to add PPI or a No box to 
decline it. I can see the Yes box has been ticked and the form has been signed by Mrs F. 
Mrs F says this form was likely completed by the branch but I wouldve expected her to have 
looked over this form before signing it and confirming she wanted PPI. 
Although I have thought carefully about Mrs Fs testimony, based on what Ive seen, I think 
its more likely the policy was presented as optional to Mrs F and she agreed to take it 
knowing she had a choice. 
Mrs F also feels that Lloyds pressured her to take the PPI. When a consumer claims they 
were pressured to take PPI, Id need persuasive evidence to uphold the complaint on this 
basis as pressure can be subjective. Encouraging a customer to consider buying PPI and 
highlighting the benefits of it isnt enough to amount to undue pressure. In order to uphold a 
complaint due to pressure, Id need to hear detail as to what was said or done which made a 
consumer feel they are unable to decline cover knowing it was an optional feature.  
Whilst Ive thought carefully about what Mrs F has said, I havent heard enough to make me 
think its more likely than not Lloyds put pressure on Mrs F to take the PPI.  
Lloyds doesnt know if it advised Mrs F to take the PPI but has assessed this case as if it did. 
As this holds Lloyds to a higher standard of responsibility, Ive done the same. This means 
Lloyds should have made sure the PPI was right for Mrs F  and based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, she was eligible for the policy and 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. She also seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs F had been employed for a significant length of time and had six months full followed by 
six months half sick pay provided by her employer. She also had some savings available to 
help her meet her repayments had she found herself unexpectedly out of work. She adds 
her family couldve helped too. 
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay for up to 12 months  so longer than 
her full sick pay wouldve lasted. I think she wouldve found that helpful if she was off work 
unexpectedly because of illness or injury  especially for the period she wasnt receiving her 
full salary. And having the policy would also leave her sick pay and any other means 
available for her to use on other essential expenditure, at what couldve been a difficult time 
financially. This policy would also have paid out for up to 12 months for unemployment. 
While I understand her family would want to help her, their ability to help would depend on 
their own circumstances at the time. So, overall, I still think she couldve found it useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. So, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Finally, Mrs F is also unhappy with the service Lloyds provided  it didnt respond to some 
letters she sent, after it had issued its final response about her complaint. From what Ive 
seen, I do think the service Lloyds gave Mrs F could have been better. But if Mrs F was 
unhappy with Lloyds final response then she had the option to refer the complaint to our 
service, as she ultimately did. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman