DRN-2653519
The complaint
Mr W complains that his credit file was marked by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax).
What happened
Mr W had a Halifax credit card for ten years. He was struggling with payments, especially 
from 2016. Late payment markers were advised to credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Interest and charges of £1198.05 were refunded in October 2020.
Mr W complained - when he first made his complaint to Halifax, they realised he shouldve 
been defaulted in 2017  but wasnt. So, they refunded interest and charges applied since 
then up to October 2020. Mr W said that he shouldnt have had late payment markers 
applied to his credit file since 2017  as Halifax had admitted they made a mistake.
Halifax said that in looking at Mr Ws complaint, they realised the account shouldve been 
defaulted in August 2017  because of missed payments. If theyd done that at the time, they 
wouldve frozen Mr Ws account and stopped charging interest and fees. So, they refunded 
these from August 2017 up to October 2020. No further charges would be made, and the 
card was stopped  so Mr W now has to repay the balance. The account will then be closed. 
Halifax paid Mr W compensation of £100 for their mistake.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that Halifax shouldve 
registered a default in 2017  because of a lot of missed payments then. This would remain 
on Mr Ws credit file for six years. His credit file also showed late payment markers  which 
wouldnt have the same negative impact as a default. 
Mr W asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr W is coming from  he says that because Halifax made an error in 2017 
 in not registering a default, and continuing to charge interest, then he shouldnt also have 
late payment markers added to his credit file. These are hindering him obtaining credit.
I can see that Halifax shouldve registered a default in 2017. Between October 2016 and 
March 2018, Mr W missed 16 payments. So  Halifax shouldve in registered a default at 
that time. Lenders are guided by the rules for dealing with debts in arrears. The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three months behind with 
their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be 
registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the 
business responsibility to put an entry on the credit file. And, because Mr W was in financial 
difficulty  we would have expected Halifax to stop charging interest and fees  to help Mr W 
deal with the debt and get back on his feet. They didnt do that - but put things right in 
October 2020  when they refunded the interest and charges applied up to then. They paid 
compensation of £100 to Mr W.
Mr Ws complaint is that  late payment markers have continued to be shown on his credit 
file. And because Halifax made an error in not applying the default in 2017  this shouldnt 
have been done.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said. But  default and late payments are different things. 
If a default is registered  it shows that a borrower had missed at least three payments up to 
that time. This was the case for Mr W  but in the event, Halifax didnt default him, so 
actually, the default doesnt show on Mr Ws credit file (as it should do). This is a positive for 
Mr W  as it wouldve been on his file for six years and would be a significant factor in not 
being able to borrow money.  
Late payment markers are just that  they indicate that a payment was late and are shown in 
months. Its for lenders to interpret these as they see fit  but theyre not as serious as a 
default. It was still the case that Mr W had to make the agreed payments to his account (for 
example, the minimum amount shown on his monthly statements)  but he didnt in every 
month. Ive looked at Mr Ws statements  and they show that he missed many payments 
between 2018 and 2020.
Mr W showed us his credit file. I can see that Halifax recorded nine late payments in 2018, 
four in 2019 and two in 2020. From looking at Mr Ws statements, these look to be accurate. 
Halifax must record accurate data on credit records  as all lenders do. So  I cant say they 
were wrong to show the late payments on Mr Ws file. 
In looking at Mr Ws credit file - it doesnt record the default  that Halifax admit they 
shouldve registered in 2017. This is a good thing as far as Mr W is concerned. As is the fact 
that it shows only late payments to Halifax  which is less serious than a default. But also  I 
can see some other negative payment information posted by other lenders and suppliers  
so it may not be completely down to Halifaxs late payments thats preventing him from 
getting credit.
I can appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but  my decision is that 
Halifax acted correctly in recording the late payments as they did, and I wont be asking 
them to do anymore here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman