DRN-3367274
The complaint
Mr K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a Select 
Silver account in March 2015. 
Mr K paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr K says 
that he was told that he had to upgrade his account in order to get an overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks complaint. They did not think that the Select Silver 
account was mis-sold.
Mr K did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ks complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr K, but after giving this case a lot of thought, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this isnt the outcome that he was hoping 
for. But I hope that my explanation will help him to understand how I have come to this 
conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr K was aware the Select Silver account was 
optional and whether he was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more 
likely than not that he was given a fair choice as to whether to take out the account. I say this 
because he had previously had a fee-free bank account with NatWest for two years. So, I 
think that Mr K wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were an option for him.
Mr K says that prior to upgrading to the Select Silver account online he was told he would 
need to upgrade to be eligible for an overdraft facility. NatWest does not have a record of 
this and I accept that it may have been the case that Mr K thought that having the account 
may help him obtain an overdraft facility, but there is not enough for me to say that this was 
due to the actions of NatWest. Additionally, I cant see that Mr K applied for an overdraft at 
the time of the upgrade, which I would have expected him to have done had he taken the 
account out solely for that reason. I think it more likely that he upgraded his account online 
himself as he was attracted to the benefits that the account came with. 
Additionally, during the online upgrade process, I think that the major features and benefits 
of the account wouldve been highlighted, to make the account seem attractive to encourage 
people to opt for the fee paid account.
This account was not recommended to Mr K. This means that NatWest did not need to 
ensure that the benefits were suitable for Mr K. But it did need to provide Mr K with enough 
information to decide this for himself. 
Again, I think its likely NatWest wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account 
came with, as it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr K. This is 
supported by Mr K registering a handset under the mobile phone insurance policy. I accept 
that Mr K may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came 
with. But I cant see anything about his circumstances at the time that makes me think he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information 
about it. 
I note Mr Ks comments that he could not use the Taste Card that the account came with as 
there were no local restaurants, he has also explained that the mobile phone insurance 
excess increased over time. I should explain that the account came with a package of 
benefits and it is not uncommon for someone to not be able to use all of the benefits that an 
account comes with. Ultimately, NatWest needed to make Mr K aware of the benefits of the 
account and the options that he had. I am satisfied, albeit on balance as I cant see the 
online application screens, that NatWest did enough to do this and it was down to Mr K to 
decide for himself as to whether he wanted the account and whether the package would be 
a good fit for his circumstances. I also think that the documentation sent to him over the 
years wouldve set out the features and limitations of the account and it was then up to Mr K 
to decide whether or not that he wanted to retain the account.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the Select Silver account was mis-
sold to Mr K. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require NatWest to refund Mr K 
the account fees that he has been charged whilst he held the Select Silver account. 
I understand that this may be frustrating to Mr K, as he strongly feels that his account was 
mis-sold. I also understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the Select Silver account may 
not have represented good value for money. But I cant uphold his complaint due to this. I 
can only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman