DRN-1563841
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Old Mutual Wealth Limited. Theyre unhappy with the charges 
applied to a fund held in their Collective Investment Account. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs P opened a Collective Investment Account (CIA) with Old 
Mutual Wealth and jointly invested in a fund. They received a quarterly statement in 
February 2019 that showed fund manager charges of 1.68%. This was higher than they 
expected, as the paperwork when setting it up showed it would be 1.24%, so they 
complained to Old Mutual Wealth about the increase.
Old Mutual Wealth didnt uphold the complaint and said, as the product provider, the fund 
manager charges arent in their control and so any complaint about these should be directed 
to the fund manager. They also explained that while the fund manager is part of the same 
parent company group as themselves, theyre responsible for providing the CIA and the 
platform it invests through whereas the fund manager is responsible for the fund itself. 
They did however explain that there are two ways funds managers calculate their charges 
for managing funds, the Total Expense Ratio (TER) and Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive compliant Ongoing Charge Figure (OCR). And that there can be differences in the 
amount of the charge depending on which is used. But they sought clarification from the fund 
manager as to why there was such a large difference between the TER and OCR on this 
occasion. They were informed the reason was due to the OCR, unlike the TER, included 
management fees largely associated with investment trusts. And this had a significant 
impact on the costs for the fund range Mr and Mrs P invested in as it makes greater use of 
investment trusts.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this explanation or that they should take the matter up with the 
fund manager. They said both the CIC and fund were sold by Old Mutual Wealth and it was 
they who confirmed the applicable charges. And the contract note confirming their 
investment shows the fund manager charges as 1.24%. They also said there wasnt mention 
of any other charges, OCF or otherwise, in the documents they received and pointed out that 
both the TER and OCF are quoted on Old Mutual Wealths website as 1.24%.
Old Mutual Wealth didnt change their position and reiterated that they have no influence, 
control or responsibility over what fund managers charge. They referred to clause 34.4 in the 
account terms which say they wont be responsible for any loss or damage incurred because 
of factors they couldnt reasonably control such as any action or omission of a fund 
manager. They also explained it was a separate firm  who likewise is part of the same 
parent company group  that sold the fund are responsible for the advice and 
recommendations provided. So, Mr and Mrs P should direct any concerns about the fund 
charges or the advice they received to the appropriate company. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think Old Mutual Wealth were responsible for the increase of fund manager charges 
applied to the fund. In summary, he said:The account terms, along with the Charges, Fees and Rebate Guide dont refer to 
the 1.24% TER figure but rather, they only refer to a separate monthly service 
charge. And while the account terms set out that Old Mutual Wealth will provide 
access to information about their investments, the scope of the contract doesnt 
extend beyond this to the running of the underlying funds invested in.
The account terms also define fund manager as the investment company 
responsible for the management of a fund. So, he considered it was made 
sufficiently clear that the management of the fund was a separate function from Old 
Mutual Wealths responsibilities. And, in reference to clause 34.4 of the account 
terms, it follows that the fund manager charges would be outside of their control 
given they are set and deducted by the fund manager.
The funds prospectus also explains that the fund manager charge is subject to 
change at any time by the fund manager  without input from Old Mutual Wealth. And 
so, this indicates Old Mutual Wealth doesnt have control over the charges and so it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to guarantee the figures in documentation 
such as the Key Features Illustration or the contract note.
The contract note confirms the details of the transaction  fund investment  but it 
isnt a legally binding document or agreement. Instead, it provides information to be 
used as general guidance and it doesnt suggest Old Mutual Wealth has 
responsibility for the fund manager charges.
Although Mr and Mrs P have a contractual relationship with Old Mutual Wealth, they 
also have separate relationships with the firms relating to the sale and management 
of the investment. And while these other firms are part of the same parent group of 
companies as Old Mutual Wealth, this doesnt make Old Mutual Wealth responsible 
for their actions.
 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with whats happened as, based on the 
information they were provided, they were expecting the fund manager charges applied to 
their investment to be lower. And so, I understand theyre naturally concerned with the 
impact this has on investment performance. But what I must consider is whether Old Mutual 
Wealth is responsible for this and for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think they are.
Mr and Mrs P received advice from a separate firm to invest in the fund. Old Mutual Wealth 
therefore isnt responsible for the recommendation Mr and Mrs P received or ensuring the 
fund they invested in was suitable for their needs. But, as the product provider, they were 
required to provide fair, clear and not misleading information to allow Mr and Mrs P to make 
an informed decision. So, Ive considered whether they did this.
Old Mutual Wealth provided Mr and Mrs P a personalised Key Features Illustration 
document that set out the fund manager charges for their chosen investment fund. This 
showed the fund manager charges, using the TER calculation method, as 1.24%. It also 
explained this as the percentage fund manager charges based on the total expected annual 
cost of running the fund. 
Mr and Mrs P also received a contract note that detailed the fund investment (transaction). 
This likewise confirmed the TER as 1.24% and in the notes section, it said:7.Fund manager charges are based on the costs they incur in running the fund. These 
costs add up to what is known as the Total Expense Ration (TER). This is a 
combination of an amount known as the Annual Management Charge (AMC), and 
any additional expenses necessary for running the fund.
 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P say they expected the fund manager charges to be in 
line with the 1.24% Old Mutual Wealth stated. That said, I dont think Old Mutual Wealth is 
responsible for the increase or that they provided unclear or misleading information. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps CIA is held on Old Mutual Wealths investment platform. It provides them 
with access to a wide range of funds to invest in and the ability to manage their investments.  
A service charge  taken on a monthly basis  is applied by Old Mutual Wealth to cover the 
cost of holding or administering these investments as well as carrying out any instructions by 
arranging the sale and purchase of funds. This charge is set out in the account terms and, 
more specifically, the charges, fees and rebates guide.
Old Mutual Wealths remit, and therefore responsibilities, however doesnt extend to the 
management of the underlying funds available on their investment platform. And, Ive not 
seen anything in their account terms to suggest otherwise. Instead, it is the fund manager 
that is responsible for implementing the funds investment strategy and overseeing its trading 
activities. Because of this, they directly control the charges applied for managing the fund. I 
think its also relevant to note the funds prospectus says:
  CHANGES TO THE FIXED ONGOING CHARGE
Should the underlying fees and expenses that are met out of the Fixed Ongoing 
Charge reduce or increase, the [fund manager] may change the Fixed Ongoing 
Charge where it reasonably considers this to be appropriate. The [fund manager] 
reserves the right to increase or decrease the Fixed Ongoing Charge.
Im satisfied it is the fund manager, and not Old Mutual Wealth, that apply the fund manager 
charges. And that, as Old Mutual Wealth explained in their response to Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint, the increase in the fund manager charges wasnt in their control. Therefore, Old 
Mutual Wealth could only provide Mr and Mrs P with information in respect of the fund 
manager charges - as they did in the personalised Key Features Illustration and contract 
note - that the fund manager gave them. They also included the following warning in the 
illustration:
This illustration has been produced using information provided to Old Mutual Wealth 
for that purpose. It is for guidance only and should not be regarded as a legally 
binding part of any contract.
Although I understand why Mr and Mrs P relied upon the information in the illustration, as it 
was created by Old Mutual Wealth to help them decide if the CIA (and the funds chosen) 
were right for them, I think it was made sufficiently clear that it was for guidance only. And 
while Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ps view this constitutes inducement and a contract offer of 
which they accepted, I disagree with them that it means the fund manager charges cannot 
change. Ive not seen anything to show Old Mutual Wealth provided inaccurate information 
from what the fund manager was reporting at that time. Or, that they informed  or 
suggested  to Mr and Mrs P that the charges were fixed. But rather, the personal illustration 
explained the fund manager charges were based on the total expected annual cost of 
running the fund. So, I think this infers the exact level of charges are unknown and could 
vary. This is also currently reflected in the fund manager charges, represented in both the TER and OCR calculation method, now being reported as 1.15% on Old Mutual Wealths 
website  so lower than the 1.24% stated at the time of investment.
Taking everything in to account, I think the information Old Mutual Wealth provided Mr and 
Mrs P was fair, clear and not mis-leading at that time. I also think its relevant to add that 
further information about the fund  such as the prospectus or key investor information 
document  was available to them (and their adviser) when deciding whether the fund was 
suitable for their circumstances. So, I think it was reasonable for them so consider this as 
well as the personal illustration provided by Old Mutual Wealth before deciding to proceed 
with the investment.
Furthermore, and while I know Mr and Mrs P disagree with its application here, I think clause 
34.4 for the account terms is relevant. It says:
We will not be responsible for any loss or damage you incur because of factors which 
we could not reasonably control, such as:

(d) any action or omission of a bank, fund manager or other third party (other than 
our sub-contractors).
The fund manager isnt a sub-contractor of Old Mutual Wealth. And the above clause, in my 
view, clearly says they wont be responsible for any act or omission of a fund manager that 
leads to a loss being incurred. In this case a loss has been incurred by Mr and Mrs P as a 
result of an increase in fund manager charges which, as Ive already explained, wasnt within 
Old Mutual Wealths control.
Im aware Mr and Mrs P argue this exclusion doesnt apply as clause 34.1 refers to third 
parties as those outside of the parent company group and gives fund manager as an 
example of this. But although Ive taken this in to consideration, I think clause 34.4 works 
independently of this. And, I also consider it relevant that fund manager and other third 
party are referred to separately in clause 34.4 as well. So, I think its reasonable for me to 
conclude that an action or omission of a fund manager applies irrespective of whether the 
fund manager is part of the parent company group or not.
On a final note, Id also like to clarify that -while theyve said otherwise - Mr and Mrs P do 
have a direct relationship with the fund manager because theyve invested in the fund. And, 
as I previously explained, the fund manager has a responsibility to implement the funds 
investment strategy and overseeing its trading activities. So, if Mr and Mrs P are unhappy 
with how the fund is being managed or the charges that have been applied then they can 
complain to the fund manager about this. Should they remain unhappy with the fund 
managers response, they may be able to refer the matter to our service to look in to.
I realise Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed by this outcome but for the reasons Ive set out, I 
dont think Old Mutual Wealth is responsible for the increased fund manager charges or that 
theyve acted outside the terms of the agreement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman