DRN-4293891
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia, sent this service 
information about a complaint that he hadnt referred to us. 
What happened
In December 2022, Mr S asked Co-op to raise a formal complaint on his behalf as he was 
unhappy with how theyd handled a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) that hed made. 
However, Co-op treated Mr Ss request as an informal enquiry, rather than a formal 
complaint. Mr S wasnt happy about this and felt that Co-op werent abiding by guidelines 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regarding the handling of complaints.
Mr S contacted Co-op about this, at which time they began to treat the matter as a formal 
complaint. Mr S received a complaint response letter from Co-op which advised him of his 
right to refer his complaint to this service. Mr S didnt refer his complaint to this service, but 
Co-op sent a copy of the complaint response letter to us. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so 
he raised a further complaint about it with Co-op.
Co-op responded to Mr S and confirmed that theyd contacted this service and requested 
that the complaint response letter in question be removed from our records. Mr S wasnt 
satisfied with Co-ops response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they acknowledged that Co-op 
had made a mistake by sending the letter to us, they didnt feel that this mistake had led to 
any adverse impact for Mr S and so didnt feel that any further action from Co-op  such as a 
payment of compensation  was required. Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
In instances where information is sent incorrectly, it can often be difficult to assess whether 
the incorrect sending of that information has had an adverse impact on the complaint party. 
But that isnt the case here, because in this instance the recipient of the incorrect information 
is this service. And as such, I feel that I can declare that the receipt of the information by us 
hasnt had an adverse impact on Mr S.  
Mr S is concerned the receipt of the letter may have influenced a decision that was made by 
this service on another complaint with Co-op that hed referred to us and which was being 
considered by us at that time. But I can reassure Mr S that this wasnt the case, and that this 
service acts only on information that is relevant to the specific complaint being considered. 
This means that what happened here is that this service received a complaint response 
letter from Co-op which wasnt relevant to us, and which Co-op later contacted us about and 
asked us to remove from our records. And Im satisfied that any potentially sensitive 
information that might have been contained within that letter hasnt fallen into potentially 
unscrupulous hands, again because the letter was received by this service. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that there has been no adverse impact to Mr S here. And I dont 
feel that Co-op should fairly be asked to compensate Mr S for what I consider to be a minor 
error which hasnt led to any detriment for Mr S. 
Im aware that Mr S feels that there has been an impact of these events on him, including 
the time and effort hes to expend surrounding this matter and the worry its caused him. But 
as explained, Mr S has referred complaints to this service previously, and so Im not 
convinced that any fear Mr S may have about this service receiving the letter is reasonable. 
And while Mr S did have to ask Co-op to ask us to remove the letter from our records, I dont 
feel that Mr S making that request merits any further action from Co-op here, beyond their 
making that request as they did. 
Furthermore, this service doesnt consider awarding compensation to complainants because 
they felt it necessary to raise a complaint or for the time and effort that they expended in 
doing so. This is because, if that were the case, wed likely award compensation for every 
complaint thats received by us  which clearly wouldnt be fair or reasonable.
Mr S also feels that Co-op have breached data-protection regulations by sending the letter to 
us without his consent. However, as explained above, this service isnt a regulatory body. 
This means it isnt for me to say whether Co-op have or havent complied with data-
protection regulations. That would be for the relevant regulatory body  in this instance the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO)  to decide. As such, I can only encourage Mr S 
to refer this aspect of his complaint to the ICO should he wish to pursue it further. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Co-op didnt treat his complaint as a complaint in the first instance. 
But this isnt a matter that its within my remit to comment on. This is because, as per the 
rules by which this service must abide  which can be found in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) section of the FCA Handbook  this service is only able to consider complaints 
about specified activities, of which complaint handling isnt one. In short, this service is 
unbale to consider a complaint about how a business has handled a complaint.
What this service can consider is whether an unfair outcome has arisen and, if so, whether 
any further action is fairly required from the business being complained about. And, as 
explained above, while I accept that Co-op shouldnt have sent the letter to us, Im satisfied 
that theres been no adverse impact on Mr S and that no further action from Co-op  beyond 
that which theyve already taken  is fairly or reasonably required of them.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any further action. I trust that Mr S will understand, 
given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman