DRN-3549949
The complaint
Mr Ws complains is about National Savings and Investments (NS&I). Mr W is represented 
by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr W throughout this 
decision.
This complaint was initially set up as part of a wider complaint including products held by 
other family members. The complaint was split to reflect the different complainants and this 
decision relates to the issues raised regarding Mr Ws junior individual savings account 
(ISA).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W says that the funds invested in the junior ISA werent backdated to the 
application date but instead interest was applied from the date the funds were 
received. However, NS&I has confirmed that the correct process is for interest to be 
earned from when the funds are received as up to when the transfer is complete the 
funds earn interest with the previous provider. NS&I did initially incorrectly say that 
interest was earned form the date of application, but later explained that interest is 
earned from the date the funds are received. The issue of the incorrect information 
has been dealt with separately and as interest was applied correctly, I do not uphold 
this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W says that there was a delay in his funds being transferred from NS&I to another 
provider. The key issue here relates to the provision of statements. NS&I confirmed 
in its final response letter dated 7 July 2021 that statements werent required as part 
of the transfer process. I accept this is the case and so while noting the delay in the 
statements being provided, I cannot say this caused a delay in the funds being 
transferred. 
The transfer of Mr Ws funds was returned by the receiving bank and a second 
attempt was made. This was also unsuccessful. The funds were successfully sent on 
3 August 2021. NS&I has provided screenshots for the attempted transfers and the 
details contained in these were the same for all three attempts. I cannot say why the 
first two attempts failed but based on the evidence provided I do not find I have 
enough to say that NS&I did anything wrong in this process.
There were service issues that occurred such as the delay in the provision of the 
statements, but this has dealt with separately. 
As set out above this decision relates to the concerns raised in relation to the transfer of 
funds to and from Mr Ws junior ISA and the related issues surrounding this. For the reasons 
set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Savings and 
Investments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman