DRN-4311694
Complaint
Mr B complains that Fund Ourselves Limited (Fund Ourselves) is incorrectly reporting on 
loans, which he says he cancelled within the 14-day cancellation period, to Credit 
Reference Agencies. 
Background
Fund Ourselves provided Mr B with a total of eight loans between June 2021 and             
April 2022. Mr B repaid all of the loans within 14 days. Its also worth noting that seven of the 
eight loans were repaid in the last week of the month and six of the seven were settled in the 
last three or four days of the month.
Mr B says he believed that hed cancelled these loans and so they wouldnt be reported to 
Credit Reference Agencies. But he later noticed that rather than being removed, these loans 
were actually reported as having been settled early with Credit Reference Agencies. 
Mr B was unhappy with Fund Ourselves actions and decided to complain about this matter. 
Fund Ourselves didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it was up to a lender how to 
report withdrawn loans to credit reference agencies. Mr B remained dissatisfied and referred 
the complaint to our service. 
One of adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint and concluded that Fund Ourselves needed 
to remove loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file. However, she also thought that Fund Ourselves 
didnt need to do anything in relation to loans 2 to 8 as Mr B hadnt provided notice of his 
intention to withdraw from these agreements prior to settling these loans. 
Both Fund Ourselves and Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case 
was passed to an ombudsman as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My provisional decision of 14 August 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 14 August 2023 - setting out why I intended to partially 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings.
I started my consideration of this complaint by looking at the arguments that Mr B had made 
about why all reference to the loans he was provided with should be removed from his credit 
file. 
Mr Bs arguments in relation to cancelling his loans with Fund Ourselves
Mr B said that he cancelled all of his loans in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
his agreements and as a result they should have been removed from his credit file. In 
particular, he referred to having complied with section 14.3 of the terms and conditions of his 
agreement and having cancelled all of his loans within 14 days. 
I thought about what Mr B said. 
Section 14 of all of the loan agreements Mr B signed is entitled Right to Cancel. Section 
14.3 goes on to state:
14.3 To exercise the right to cancel, you must inform Fund Ourselves Limited of your 
decision to cancel this contract by a clear statement (e.g. a letter sent by post, 
telephone or email) or follow the early repayment procedures.
In the first instance, I started by saying that both Mr B and Fund Ourselves had used the 
terms cancellation and withdrawal interchangeably as if they were one and the same. But 
cancellation and withdrawal are separate and distinct mechanisms for existing a credit 
agreement. I accepted that to the lay person this might have seemed like a rather pedantic 
distinction for me to make. But the method used to exit an agreement had the potential to 
affect the consequences of doing so. 
The right to cancel a credit agreement (which is a distance contract) exists under the 
provisions set out in Section 11.1.1R of the regulators Consumer Credit Sourcebook; 
whereas the right to withdraw from a regulated credit agreement exists as a result of Section 
66A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S66A CCA). S66A typically applies to a regulated 
agreement as long as it is not excluded for one of the reasons set out in subsection 14. And 
cancellation usually only applies to a distance contract which S66A doesnt apply.  
Mr Bs agreements
Mr Bs agreements were regulated agreements not excluded for one of the reasons set out 
in subsection 14 of S66A CCA. And as far as I could see neither CONC 11.1.2 (2) or CONC 
11.1.2 (3) apply here. 
So this meant that Mr B only had the right to withdraw from his agreements using S66A 
CCA. He did not have the right to cancel under CONC 11.1.1R.        
Which agreements, if any, did Mr B withdraw from?
I considered whether Mr B did withdraw from all of his agreements. When doing so, I 
considered what S66A CCA  and in particular subsection 2 - states. It states:
66A Withdrawal from consumer credit agreement
(1)The debtor under a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, may withdraw from the agreement, without giving any reason, in 
accordance with this section.
(2)To withdraw from an agreement under this section the debtor must give oral or 
written notice of the withdrawal to the creditor before the end of the period of 14 days 
beginning with the day after the relevant day.

Id already explained Mr Bs agreements werent excluded agreements so he didnt have to 
provide a reason for doing so, should he have wished to withdraw. However, while Mr B 
wasnt required to provide a reason to withdraw, subsection 2 did require Mr B to provide 
notice of his intention to withdraw ahead of doing so. And it wasnt in dispute that  Mr B, at 
best (it was unclear whether the notice was provided before he settled the loan as the email 
stated I have paid the loan back in full, I have also given you notice of the cancellation ), 
only provided the required oral or written notice in relation to loan 1. There didnt appear to be any dispute that Mr B didnt provide any oral or written notice 
before settling loans 2 to 8. It was unclear to me why Mr B chose not to submit written 
notification of his intention to end his agreement before repaying loans 2 to 8, in the same 
way that he did for loan 1.
But Mr B said that this did not matter as he, in any event, followed the early repayment 
procedures as per section 14.3 of his agreements. I looked through all of his agreements 
and I couldnt see that the early repayment procedures were defined anywhere. So I 
assumed that Mr B considered that his making of the relevant payment, in itself, constituted 
him following the early repayment procedures.
I went on to explain that, in any event and perhaps more importantly, even if I were to have 
given Mr B the benefit of the doubt in relation to this matter and agree that his actions in 
repaying the loans early did meet the early repayment procedures, section 14.3 didnt say 
that meeting these conditions would result in any loan not being reported to Credit 
Reference Agencies. At best, all meeting the terms of this section did was ensure that the 
amount Mr B had to repay was limited to the sum lent plus interest at 0.8% per day for the 
number of days he had the funds. 
As far as I was aware, Mr B wasnt charged any more than this for any of his loans. So it 
seemed to me that Fund Ourselves hadnt done anything wrong in relation to loans 2 to 8. 
More importantly, I didnt think that Mr B repaying loans 2 to 8 within 14 days meant that he 
withdrew from those agreements, in the way that he believed he did.   
Why I thought that Fund Ourselves needed to take action in relation to loan 1
Fund Ourselves argued that irrespective of whether Mr B correctly withdrew from loan 1 or in 
fact or all of his loans, it, in any event, did nothing wrong as, in its view it is up to a lender 
whether or not to report on loans that a consumer has withdrawn from. 
I thought about what Fund Ourselves said. And when doing so, I kept in mind subsection 7 
of S66A CCA, which states:
(7) Subject as follows, where the debtor withdraws from a regulated consumer credit 
agreement under this section
(a) the agreement shall be treated as if it had never been entered into
Although Mr B referred to cancelling his agreements, this was the subsection Mr B was 
relying upon to support his argument that his agreements shouldnt be reported to Credit 
Reference Agencies.  
However, I explained that while subsection 7 of S66A CCA refers to how a withdrawn 
agreement itself should be regarded, it is silent on how such an agreement should be treated 
for the purposes of reporting to Credit Reference Agencies. The only reference to how such 
agreements should be reported is found in paragraph 11.21 of the Department for Business 
Innovation & Skills (BIS) guidance on the implementing Consumer Credit (EU Directive) 
Regulations 2010/1010. The requirement to implement this directive was the reason S66A 
came into being in the first place.  
Paragraph 11.21 of the BIS guidance states:
11.21 Section 66A(7)(a) is intended to be binding on the parties to the agreement 
rather than more generally. CRAs could have regard to section 66A(7)(a) and treat agreements where the borrower has exercised the right of withdrawal as never 
having existed, removing the agreement from their database. However, they could 
also record the agreement as having been repaid. The important thing is that the 
consumer should not be disadvantaged in any way by having withdrawn from and 
repaid a credit agreement.
It was my view that the BIS guidance did provide a lender with some latitude in terms of 
reporting. And it would be down to the particular facts and circumstances of the lending in 
question in terms of what it would be fair and reasonable for a lender to report to Credit 
Reference Agencies in relation to any loan, or loans, that a consumer withdraws from. 
As Id by this stage explained, Mr B only met the prescribed criteria to withdraw from loan 1. I 
could see that he withdrew from and repaid loan 1 ten days after he entered into the 
agreement. Given this was a first loan, Mr B followed the prescribed criteria for withdrawing 
from the agreement; the BIS guidance stated Mr B should not be disadvantaged by having 
withdrawn from and repaid this loan; and most importantly, at the time at least, there was no 
indication Mr B was doing anything other than exercising his right to withdraw, I was satisfied 
that Fund Ourselves should remove all reference to loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file.
When reaching this conclusion, I kept in mind what Fund Ourselves had said about receiving 
a final decision, on another case, where the ombudsman didnt require it to remove the loans 
concerned from the consumers credit file.
I looked at the copy of the decision provided. And I agreed that the ombudsman did state 
that it wasnt unfair for Fund Ourselves to report that the consumers loans in that case as 
having been early settled rather than removed entirely. But I couldnt see that that final 
decision went as far as saying that it would never be appropriate to remove a withdrawn loan 
from a borrowers credit file. 
Furthermore I went on to explain that while I could understand why Fund Ourselves might 
find it strange to have received different outcomes on complaints which it perceived to be 
materially the same, I am nonetheless required to consider the facts of a case and reach my 
own conclusion. I cannot be bound by the conclusions that another ombudsman has 
reached on a completely different case.
That said, I did agree that consistency is important. I had already explained that the 
particular facts and circumstances of the lending in question will determine what it would be 
fair and reasonable for a lender to report to Credit Reference Agencies in relation to any 
loan, or loans, that a consumer withdraws from. I didnt know the particular circumstances of 
the case that Fund Ourselves had provided. But I thought it unlikely that it would be exactly 
the same as Mr Bs.  
So while I was not required to replicate the outcomes reached by other ombudsmen, 
nonetheless I did not consider that it necessarily followed that my answer was incompatible 
or inconsistent with the one Fund Ourselves received on the other case it had referred to, 
notwithstanding the differing outcomes.    
 
What if Mr B had met the requirements of subsection 2 S66A CCA for loans 2 to 8?
 
For the sake of completeness, given the arguments that Mr B had made, I also thought that 
it would be helpful for me to explain why it was the case that even if Mr B had met the 
conditions to withdraw from loans 2 to 8 in accordance with S66A CCA, I still wouldnt have 
asked Fund Ourselves to remove these loans from Mr Bs credit file. I reached this conclusion because Mr B wasnt really withdrawing from these loans. His 
pattern of borrowing suggested that he was using these loans for extra short terms.            
Mr Bs pattern of borrowing suggested that he was taking out loans with Fund Ourselves 
using the funds and then repaying the amount owing after he was paid. Indeed, by this 
stage, I had already set out that the vast majority of these loans were settled in the last few 
days of the month.
It was my view that Mr Bs use of these loans was more akin to early settlement rather than 
withdrawing from them - he appeared to have repaid the loans ahead of the scheduled 
repayment dates rather than returned the funds because he didnt have a need for them. So 
I didnt think that it was unfair for Fund Ourselves to report on these loans in this way.
I did appreciate that Mr B might have felt that S66A CCA provided some kind of loophole in 
relation to how his usage of this type of lending should be reported to Credit Reference 
Agencies. And bearing in mind that prospective lenders could draw certain conclusions 
about prospective borrowers creditworthiness as a result of using payday type lending, I 
could fully understand why Mr B wanted these loans removed from his credit file and why he 
was disappointed that Fund Ourselves hadnt placed him in the position hed hoped hed be 
in when he settled these loans. 
However, I thought that asking Fund Ourselves to remove all reference to these loans and 
make it appear as though Mr B didnt use the funds, in circumstances where his pattern of 
lending suggested that he did, simply did not reflect what happened here. Indeed, Mr B was 
asking us to place him in a more advantageous position that he should be in. And this did 
not seem to me to be in keeping with my remit to determine what was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case. 
Furthermore, I also thought that it would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr Bs 
interests or that of any prospective future lender for this many loans to be removed from Mr 
Bs credit file and potentially make it appear as though Mr B is more creditworthy than he 
actually is. This was particularly the case as what is currently recorded about loans 2 to 8 
effectively, appropriately and accurately mirrors what happened here. 
So I explained that notwithstanding the fact that Mr B did not comply with the requirements 
of subsection 2 S66A of the CCA, I any event wouldnt have required Fund Ourselves to 
cease reporting on loans 2 to 8 to Credit Reference Agencies even if Mr B had complied with 
the requirements.  
I concluded by setting out that it was my intention to issue a final decision which directed 
Fund Ourselves to remove all reference to loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file and cease reporting 
on it to Credit Reference Agencies. However, I was not intending to require Fund Ourselves 
to take any action in relation to loans 2 to 8. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B confirmed receiving my provisional decision. He said he thought that it had some very 
good points and that he had nothing further to add.
Fund Ourselves also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It also confirmed that it 
had nothing further to add. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint in my provisional decision 
of 14 August 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to consider, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So Im still partially upholding Mr Bs complaint and Fund Ourselves needs to remove all 
reference to loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file and cease reporting on it to Credit Reference 
Agencies. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 14 August 2023, Im 
partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Fund Ourselves Limited should remove all reference to 
loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file and cease reporting on it to Credit Reference Agencies.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman