DRN-2867632
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about a pet insurance policy she has with Insurance Factory trading as 
PDSA Petsurance. She believes she was misled about the policy benefits as she wasnt 
aware that she wouldnt be able to claim death benefit for her dog because of his age.
What happened
In late 2020 Mrs T took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for her dog through Insurance 
Factorys website. Her dog was 11 years old at the time. Before her application could be 
submitted, she had to confirm she had read the assumptions it had made about her pet, the 
policy wording and the insurance product information document to understand what she was 
purchasing.
The insurance product information document Mrs T had to review before applying, is a 
summary of the key features and limitations of the policy. It detailed on the first page that 
there were restrictions on cover. The first of these restrictions was detailed as Any claim for 
death from illness for dogs aged 9 years and above
The policy wording contained a table on the first page that broke down the different benefits 
of the various levels of cover the policy could have. It said in relation to the death benefit that 
death of your pet (illness) (dogs aged 9 and over & cats aged 11 and over excluded). 
The application was accepted and Insurance Factory emailed Mrs T with her policy schedule 
and a statement of fact (detailing what she had told it about herself and her dog) on behalf of 
the insurers that underwrote the policy. The policy schedule said that the policy provided 
cover of up to £4,000 in veterinary fees, a death and loss/theft benefits of £700. The email 
also provided links to the policy wording and the insurance product information document. It 
directed her to check the terms and conditions to fully understand the cover the policy 
provided.
Sadly, Mrs Ts dog was put to sleep at the beginning of 2021. She spoke to Insurance 
Factory about making a claim, at which point she was informed, because of the age of her 
dog, she couldnt claim the death benefit. Mrs T complained.
Insurance Factory responded to Mrs Ts complaint. It said that while the policy schedule she 
received did say that there was death benefit included, it also instructed her to refer to the 
policy wording for full terms and conditions. The policy wording said the death benefit wasnt 
available for dogs of nine or over. As such, Insurance Factory rejected Mrs Ts complaint 
about the information she received at the time of the sale being misleading. It did, however, 
apologise for the poor explanation she received and the lack of empathy from its 
representative when she called to make a claim. It offered her £30 compensation for poor 
service and any inconvenience caused. 
Mrs T didnt accept Insurance Factorys response. She said she felt shed been misled at 
every stage, as the websites she researched the policy through, along with Insurance 
Factorys own site, didnt make it clear that her dog wouldnt be insured for death due to 
illness. She said a consumer is reliant on easy to digest information about the level of cover 
provided and yet Insurance Factory doesnt produce a bespoke policy schedule detailing 
the actual benefits available under that particular policy. She said she believed this meant 
her claim should be paid.
Insurance Factory didnt change its decision. It pointed out that the documents Mrs T had 
confirmed shed read before her application had been submitted, clearly showed that the 
death benefit wasnt payable for dogs of nine or older. 
Mrs T wasnt satisfied with the responses shed received and referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He acknowledged that the policy schedule was generic and showed benefits that 
werent actually attached to the individual policy Mrs T held. However, he noted she would 
have been aware from the other documentation shed read before applying for the policy, 
that the death benefit didnt cover a dog of the age of hers.
Mrs T said that she understood the investigators point of view, but wanted the complaint 
considered by an ombudsman. She said her main issue is that the journey she followed, 
starting with the comparison website, was misleading throughout. She said as a consumer 
she wasnt likely to read pages and pages of policy documents and she expects her policy to 
be set out so that its easy for her to understand in a one or two page table. Mrs T said that 
in her opinion the policy schedule implies the death benefit is included and it was this 
document she received when the policy application was accepted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T has said the document she relied on when determining what cover she had with her 
policy was the schedule she was sent after her application was accepted. Shes said she 
thinks this is misleading as it details the policy included death benefit due to illness, but her 
policy didnt. 
As Ive said, the policy schedule wasnt sent to Mrs T until after the sale of the policy. It was 
sent on behalf of the underwriters, so Insurance Factory isnt responsible for its format. 
However, at the time of the purchase she was asked to read certain documents before she 
was allowed to submit her application. Both of those documents detailed clearly on the first 
page that there was no death benefit due to illness for dogs aged nine or older. Mrs T 
confirmed that shed read these documents, so reasonably she would have known before 
she applied for the policy that the death benefit due to illness wouldnt cover her dog. I would 
also comment that while I understand her point about having to read through large 
documents, that wasnt the case here  both documents she reviewed had the information 
about the death benefit clearly set out on the first page.
When Mrs T received the policy schedule, I accept that having been told the policy didnt 
include the death benefit due to illness, the document may have caused confusion. 
However, reference to the documents she was provided with or a conversation with 
Insurance Factory would have cleared up any such confusion. I am not persuaded Mrs T 
was misled about the benefits she would receive from the policy.
Furthermore, I would comment that had I come to a different conclusion and found that 
Insurance Factory had misled Mrs T, that wouldnt mean I would be requiring it to pay the 
amount of the death benefit to her. I say this as when an error is made by a financial 
business, we aim by awarding redress to place the consumer in the position they would 
otherwise have been in, but for the error. It is normal for policies of the type Mrs T took to have an age limit for paying the death (due to illness) benefit. Given the age of Mrs Ts dog 
at the time the policy was taken out, I think it very unlikely she could have obtained a policy 
with that benefit elsewhere. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 
16 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman