DRN-2969008
The complaint
Mr S complains about the upgrade and renewal of his gadget insurance policy with Domestic 
& General Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mr S held a gadget insurance policy with D&G for a number of years. He then decided to 
upgrade his TV package in late 2020. Following this he received a letter from D&G advising 
him his insurance had been upgraded too. The new price of his insurance was cheaper, and 
Mr S said the letter said he needed to do nothing more to upgrade his policy.
But when Mr S called up, he was told the letter wasnt correct and that he did need to do 
something. He was told he needed to cancel his existing policy and set up a new one.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and complained to D&G. He wasnt happy it couldnt just amend 
the direct debit instruction and take the lower amount from him. He was especially unhappy 
with this as he said D&G were able to amend the direct debit to take more money and had 
done so in the past. Mr S also thought hed been overpaying for his policy the past three 
years and requested a refund of anything hed overpaid.
D&G offered Mr S £5 compensation for delaying its response. But it said the upgraded 
insurance was a different policy with different terms. And it said the upgraded policy didnt 
fully cover Mr Ss TV box as it was covered by the TV provider itself. It said Mr Ss previous 
policies covered his box which explained why the policies were priced differently.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend 
it be upheld. He thought D&G had been unclear in its letter, but that Mr S knew the correct 
information shortly after receiving it when he called.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss previous policy covered him for, amongst other things, his TV Box. When he 
upgraded his TV box, the new box was covered by the TV provider itself. This means it didnt 
need to be fully covered by his policy with D&G. Simply put, the policy he had with his 
previous box, was a different policy to the one needed for his new box.
I can understand Mr Ss point of view that he was told he didnt need to do anything to 
upgrade his cover  when in fact he did need to do something. And I can understand why he 
thinks D&G should have been able to simply upgrade the policy and lower his direct debit.
I understand Mr S is unhappy D&G said it cant decrease his direct debit, but its been able 
to increase it. But key here isnt that D&G needed to update his direct debit; it needed to set 
him up on a different policy.
Mr S thinks hes potentially overpaid too. But D&G has explained that his previous policies 
covered an additional risk  the box itself  which meant they were more expensive than the 
policy needed to cover him for his upgraded TV package. And Im satisfied thats 
reasonable.
I understand Mr S has said he should be able to rely on the information he was provided by 
D&G. And I agree he should. Its clear the letter he got was incorrect. But my role isnt to 
punish D&G for getting something wrong. I think Mr S found out reasonably quickly what the 
correct information was and found out what he needed to do to upgrade his policy when he 
called D&G. I dont think having to cancel his old policy and start a new one has caused 
much impact  although I appreciate Mr S feels it was unnecessary and should have been 
automated. I understand he was worried hed lose any no claims discount, but I cant see 
that he has been given a no claims discount to lose. So, although the letter he was sent was 
unclear, Im not asking D&G to offer any further compensation because looking at the picture 
as a whole, Im satisfied Mr S was in possession of the correct information.
Im aware Mr Ss policy has subsequently increased in price when it renewed in July 2021 
however that doesnt form part of this complaint. If Mr S remains unhappy with this, hed 
need to raise this issue with D&G first.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman