DRN-2841160
The complaint
Miss C and Mr F complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies that Miss C and Mr F bought in 2001 
and 2004, in connection with their mortgage. 
The policies provided cover for Mr F if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss C and Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss C and Mr Fs case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Miss C and Mr Fs needs?
- Did Halifax give Miss C and Mr F the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policies? 
If there was a problem with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Miss C and Mr F are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
 such as not taking out the policies  if there hadnt been any problems with the sales? 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss C and Mr Fs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Miss C and Mr F say they were put under pressure to take the PPI, and that Halifax didnt 
give them a proper choice about buying it. They say they were told they had to buy the 
policies to get the mortgages they wanted. Ive noted everything Miss C and Mr F have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss C and Mr F and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Halifax has provided a copy of the mortgage application form that Miss C and Mr F 
completed in 2000. There was a section about PPI that Miss C and Mr F both signed to 
show that they wanted to take the PPI. From what Ive seen, there was nothing on the 
mortgage application to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage. 
Halifaxs records indicate there were other forms of insurance discussed during the 
application process, but that Miss C and Mr F decided not to take those.
Halifax wrote to Miss C and Mr F after the mortgage application was completed, to confirm 
its advice. It said it had provided information about the PPI and its cost. But again, there was 
nothing in the letter to suggest that Miss C and Mr F had to buy the PPI. If Miss C and Mr F 
had considered they were being put under pressure to buy it, I think it might have been 
reasonable for them to query this if it wasnt mentioned in the letter.
Mr F then completed a separate form to apply for the PPI in 2001. This was separate to Miss 
C and Mr Fs mortgage application. And again, there was nothing on the form to suggest that 
taking the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage. So overall, on balance I think Miss C 
and Mr F wouldve realised they had a choice about buying the PPI in 2001. 
Halifax has also provided a copy of its records in connection with the cover taken in 2004. It 
seems Mr F was covered by the PPI, but Miss C took life and critical illness cover only. This 
suggests to me that it was likely Halifax discussed the various forms of cover that were 
appropriate for them, and that Miss C and Mr F made a choice. So from what Ive seen, I 
think its likely that Miss C and Mr F knew they had a choice about buying the PPI in 2004. 
Without anything else to support what Miss C and Mr F have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware they had a choice about buying the PPI.
Halifax advised Miss C and Mr F to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the relevant times. I say this 
because:
- Mr F was eligible for the policies given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr F says he was entitled to good employer sick pay if he was off work sick, and that 
his parents wouldve helped if things went wrong. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to Mr Fs occupational benefits, and wouldve meant he could use those 
benefits to cover other expenses. And it wouldve meant he didnt have to rely on his 
family.
So I think the policies wouldve been useful to Miss C and Mr F if Mr F couldnt work. 
- Mr F wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Miss C needed better advice or information about the policies 
exclusions and limitations. 
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Miss C and Mr F before they 
agreed to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policies were competitively priced and had reasonable benefits. So I think it unlikely Miss C and Mr F would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss C and Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr F wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policies had reasonable benefits. So I think it unlikely Miss C and Mr F 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policies.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman