DRN-2840476
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the decision by National House-Building Council (NHBC) to 
turn down her building warranty claim.
What happened
Mrs M owns a rental property. In March 2020, the flat roof of that property starting 
leaking. Mrs M contacted NHBC in April 2020 to make a claim, but was told it couldnt 
look at the damage due to Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, and so the matter would 
need to be placed on hold.
Mrs M and her husband arranged for their own contractor to carry out repairs. This 
cost around £15,000. Mrs M wanted NHBC to reimburse her for this.
NHBC considered the claim under section three of the policy. However, it turned it down 
as it didnt think Mrs M had shown that she had a valid claim. Mrs M didnt agree, and so 
she brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the 
available evidence wasnt enough to support that the claim was payable.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 March 2021. Heres what I said:
Under section three of the warranty, it explains that NHBC will cover the full cost of 
putting right any physical damage caused by a defect in certain parts of the property 
(which includes roof coverings).
Mrs M told NHBC that there was water ingress from the flat roof. She had arranged for a 
contractor to attend, but the work hadnt yet started. NHBC advised Mrs M that it wanted 
to investigate first. As Mrs M had a quote and some photos, it was agreed that she 
would send these to NHBC. The contractor would also email details of the issue.
The following day, NHBC advised Mrs M that it had looked at the photos and videos 
provided, but wanted to investigate further to assess the damage and possible causes. 
However, due to Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, this would need to be placed on hold 
until it was safe for the visit to go ahead. NHBC also said that if it found the claim to be 
valid, it would need to see if the roof was covered by a manufacturers guarantee. It said 
that Mrs M may wish to speak to the developer about this directly.
Mrs Ms husband responded to NHBC. He said the contractor had put together his team 
for the job, to start work the following Monday. And Mr M had decided to instruct the 
contractor to go ahead. He said he was concerned about the delay (with NHBCs 
investigation) and wanted to avoid further water damage to the property.
I think Mrs M was in a difficult position here. She did notify NHBC of the problem, as she 
was required to do under the policy. It wasnt NHBCs fault that it couldnt arrange an 
immediate inspection. However, Mrs M had a responsibility to her tenant to keep the 
property in good order. And she understandably wanted to prevent further damage/leaks 
from happening.
Ive looked at the available evidence, and its apparent the roof was holding water. The 
contractor explained that under the surface of the roof, there were pockets in which 
water travelled. He said that 20% of the roof was covered with water because the 
outlet to the gutters was 20mm above the roofs surface, and that this could indicate a 
collapse of the subsurface which meant the fibreglass layer needed to be replaced and 
the damaged subsurface replaced. He also said the edges of the roof surfaces and 
walls were finished with tar which stuck out from the wall, thereby creating gaps for 
water.
Based on the contractors description, it does seem as though the roof wasnt 
constructed/installed as it ought to have been, and therefore its likely there was a defect 
with the roof covering. Although NHBC says the issue may have been caused by wear 
and tear, that seems unlikely given the property was only built around eight years 
earlier. My understanding is that modern flat roofs ought to last around 20 years.
Though I dont think the available evidence is enough to support that there was 
physical damage to the roof itself. Whilst the contractor thought there may be a 
collapse of the subsurface, we dont know for certain that this was the case.
However, there was some internal damage as a result of the water leaking through the 
roof. The contractor said that one ceiling was affected, and Ive seen a photo of some 
water staining to that ceiling. So there was some physical damage caused by the defect 
with the roof. Whilst NHBC is only required to put right the physical damage under the 
warranty, the roof would have still needed to be repaired in order to stop the water leaks 
and provide a lasting repair.
NHBC questions why a localised repair wasnt done, but I think the contractor has 
provided sufficient explanation as to why this couldnt be done.
Taking all of this into account, I think theres enough evidence available to conclude that 
the issue is covered by the warranty.
However, NHBC has pointed out that the roof may have been covered by a manufacturer 
or installers guarantee. 
I think Mrs M ought to have contacted the developer to find out if an installation 
guarantee had been provided, in order to mitigate her losses. I dont think a 
manufacturers guarantee would be relevant here. I say that because, based on Mrs Ms 
contractors evidence, it appears the problem arose with the way the roof was installed 
rather than manufactured.
Consequently, I think it would be appropriate in the first instance for Mrs M to contact the 
developer and establish if an installation guarantee was provided. If so, she should find 
out whether she can now make a claim under the guarantee, even though repairs have 
been completed. If she can still make a claim, then the cost of the repairs should be 
covered under the guarantee.
If an installation guarantee does exist but wont respond because repairs have taken 
place, then I dont intend to require NHBC to pay the claim (given that Mrs Ms decision 
to go ahead with the repairs will have prevented a possible claim being made under the 
guarantee).However, if no installation guarantee exists, then I intend to require NHBC to reimburse Mrs 
M for the repairs, as Im satisfied the available evidence supports that there was likely a 
defect which was causing damage, and the cost of putting that right was more than the 
minimum claims value.
Mrs M should therefore contact the developer, and then provide the relevant 
information about any installation guarantee as set out above in response to this 
provisional decision.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments/evidence before I reached a final 
decision. 
NHBC responded and made the following points:
There was no evidence of water leaking into the property, and the subsequent 
photos show a faint stain to the ceiling. It thinks this level of damage didnt 
support that an immediate repair was needed. 
The repairs being carried out has prejudiced its ability to provide a full 
assessment of the matter.
It still thinks a localised repair could have been done. 
If I remain of the opinion the costs should be covered, then this should be the 
amount NHBC would have had to pay, had it undertaken the work itself.
Mrs M responded and provided an email from a landlord which says they dont know 
who completed the works to the roof of the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms tenants reported water entering the property when it rained, which is how Mrs M 
found out about the problems with the roof. Her contractor has provided a photo of water 
staining to the ceiling, so Im satisfied this shows there was water damage to the property.
I appreciate NHBCs point that there wasnt a significant level of damage to the property 
itself at that point. However, there were significant problems found with the roof by Mrs Ms 
contractor. So I can understand why she didnt want to delay having the repairs done, so that 
further water didnt enter the property and cause more damage.
I dont agree with NHBC that the repairs being carried out has prejudiced it. Im satisfied the 
contractor who carried out the repairs has provided a detailed explanation about the 
problems with the roof.
NHBC still thinks a localised repair could have been done. It noted the contractor said that 
he couldnt patch the roof and his reasons for that, but it thinks all the problems he identified 
with the roof werent necessarily causing the water ingress to the property. 
Ive looked again at what the contractor said. He listed a number of problems with the roof to 
explain why it was in a bad condition. I accept that some issues with the roof werent 
contributing to the water ingress (such as the traces of impressed bucket, and the crushed 
surface), but I dont think those issues prevented him from carrying out a localised repair. 
The contractor explained that any work done to the roof should guarantee water tightness, 
and then set out why that wouldnt be the case with a patch repair. I think it was for those reasons that a localised repair couldnt be done. If a localised repair couldnt ensure water-
tightness, I dont think it could be said to be effective and long-lasting. 
NHBC says that because Mrs M went ahead with the repairs, it was denied the opportunity 
to arrange this itself. It thinks any amount payable should be the amount NHBC would have 
had to pay, had it undertaken the work itself. 
The policy says:
We will either pay for the itemsor, at our option, arrange for the necessary work to be 
carried out at our expense.
NHBC was given the opportunity to assess the damage and therefore arrange for the repairs 
itself. It wasnt able to do so, which I appreciate was through no fault of its own. However, 
Ive already explained why I think it was reasonable for Mrs M to go ahead with the repairs 
herself, rather than wait for NHBC. If those circumstances (beyond both NHBC and Mrs Ms 
control) hadnt existed, I think Mrs M would have been happy for NHBC to arrange the 
repairs and wouldnt have insisted on a cash settlement. 
So in these particular circumstances, I think it would be appropriate for NHBC to reimburse 
Mrs M the amount she paid, rather than the amount NHBC would have paid (which we dont 
know would have been less) had it arranged the repairs itself.
In my provisional decision, I asked Mrs M to contact the developer and establish if an 
installation guarantee was provided for the roof. I said I would only require NHBC to pay the 
claim if Mrs M could show that no installation guarantee existed that she could have claimed 
under. 
Mrs M has provided an email from a company which says it doesnt know who completed the 
works to the roof. She hasnt explained who that company is, other than to say theyre a 
landlord - though its apparent it wasnt the developer who built the property.
We therefore gave NHBC the opportunity to contact the developer instead. It did so, and the 
developer responded to say there was no warranty on the roof. Though it said that if there 
had been, it thought Mrs M would have invalidated it by arranging the repairs. 
As I said in my provisional decision, if there had been an installation warranty on the roof 
and Mrs M had invalidated it by arranging the repairs herself, I wouldnt have required NHBC 
to pay the claim. But there is no installation warranty. I therefore remain of the opinion that it 
would be appropriate, in the particular (and unusual) circumstances of this case for NHBC to 
reimburse Mrs M for the repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National House-Building Council to 
reimburse Mrs M for the repairs, in line with the remaining policy terms. Interest should be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoice was paid to the date of 
settlement*.
* If NHBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman